=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Ice Cold Killer | River Monsters Wiki | Fandom]
Ice Cold Killer is the second episode of the ninth season of River Monsters ... He eventually gets a hook, where he reels in an adolescent weighing about ...
URL: https://river-monsters.fandom.com/wiki/Ice_Cold_Killer

[River Monsters]
"Ice Cold Killer", 30 April 2017 (2017-04-30), TBA. Featured animals ... He eventually gets a hook, where he reels in an adolescent weighing about ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/River_Monsters

[Compare files - datasets/SimpleQA]
In *River Monsters* Season 9, episode "Ice Cold Killer," approximately how old is the 250-pound, 7-foot-long "adolescent" Greenland shark that Jeremy Wade reels ...
URL: https://www.oxen.ai/datasets/SimpleQA/compare/file/59b37c013206a4d1ee7d3964cef03c3f..27ec8c7ddecbf47c2baa1428256d6ebc/eval.parquet?page=4

[Full text of "Sight and Sound (1993-02)(BFI)(GB)"]
Feb 19, 1993 — ... ice-cold killer with a hidden agenda). Then Martin and Nicholson hop ... adolescent awkwardness. In the final shot, Geoff heads off ...
URL: https://archive.org/stream/Sight_and_Sound_1993_02_BFI_GB/Sight%20and%20Sound%20%281993-02%29%28BFI%29%28GB%29_djvu.txt

[InRiverMonstersSeason9episodeIceColdKillerapproximatelyhowold ...]
Search across our giant cursor base by keywords, cursor names, cursor collection, or even themes of cursors. Find the cursor that you need by our simple cursor search
URL: https://custom-cursor.com/en/search/In+*River+Monsters*+Season+9,+episode+%22Ice+Cold+Killer,%22+approximately+how+old+is+the+250-pound,+7-foot-long+%22adolescent%22+Greenland+shark+that+Jeremy+Wade+reels+in


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Ice Cold Killer | River Monsters Wiki | Fandom] ---
Ice Cold Killer is the second episode of the ninth season of River Monsters. General Description[] When a sea monster washes up on an English beach, Jeremy Wade sets off to unmask the beast. His journey takes him from the ice sheets of Greenland to the fjords of Norway, where an Arctic storm threatens to end his quest. Episode Summary[] Jeremy Wade hears of a mysterious case of a Greenland shark washing up on a beach in Northumberland, England. Jeremy then wonders if this fish will attack people. He first travels to Greenland, where he participates in several ice fishing expeditions. These reveal cod and skate, but no large predator. Wade then locates a man who wants to catch a Greenland Shark to feed his pack of sled dogs. Wade and the Greenland shark fisherman break a hole in the ice and deploy a long line. Wade stays overnight at the man's house, a traditional custom in the area that ensures that no one will go hungry. The next morning, they reach the long line and pull it up revealing a Greenland shark that probably died over the previous night. Wade finds some interesting stomach contents inside the Greenland shark. Wade then travels to Northern Europe, where he learns interesting facts about the Greenland shark. Greenland sharks are estimated to live up to 400 years, and Wade notes that some elderly Greenland sharks alive today would have been swimming in the ocean at the same time as the Mayflower. Although greenland sharks are known as "sleeper sharks" and they also have a very lethargic reputation. A man that dived with a greenland shark near Canada observed how greenland sharks sometimes double back on divers, and exhibit predatory curiosity. He joins a team of scientists searching for a greenland shark in Norway. Scientists predict that at this time of year, greenland sharks will congregate in this area. The day starts out clear, but soon it reveals telltale signs of An approaching Arctic storm. Wade wants to catch a greenland shark in the daytime, so he can see it better than he did in his previous episode featuring this animal in Season 5, where he caught one weighing roughly 400 pounds in the night. He observes a submarine and wonders about how the environment of the greenland shark is like. He eventually gets a hook, where he reels in an adolescent weighing about 250 pounds, 7 feet long, and roughly 40-years old. The shark is thrashing around on the surface, and it is acting more like a great white than a greenland shark. This makes Wade question how lethargic the greenland shark really is. The weather eventually grows worse, and Wade feels like he must hurry. When he gets his next bite, he puts on a fishing harness and one of the scientists grabs a handle on the back of the harness. He manages to bring it in, and it is 10 feet long and roughly 700 pounds. Based on its length and weight, Wade and the scientists estimate that it is 200 years old. The team tags the shark and release it. Wade concludes the episode by reminding viewers that it is still not known whether the Greenland shark poses a threat to humans, and a greenland shark washing up on a beach in England may be a noteworthy event. Animals Featured[] Locations Featured[] - England - Greenland - Norway Trivia[] - The second time that Wade has searched for a Greenland Shark, the first being in Legend of Loch Ness.


--- [River Monsters] ---
River Monsters is a British wildlife documentary television series produced for Animal Planet by Icon Films of Bristol, United Kingdom. It is hosted by angler and biologist Jeremy Wade, who travels around the globe in search of large and dangerous fish.
River Monsters premiered on ITV in Great Britain and became one of the most-watched programmes in Animal Planet's history. It is also one of the most-viewed series on Discovery Channel in the American market.




--- [Compare files - datasets/SimpleQA] ---
Home Repositories Models Docs Blog Pricing Login Sign up Repositories Models Blog Community Pricing Search Docs LOG IN SIGN UP datasets / SimpleQA Data Branches Evaluations Fine-tune eval.parquet comparing changes between versions 59b37c013206a4d1ee7d3964cef03c3f 27ec8c7ddecbf47c2baa1428256d6ebc Base Diff Head Schema 4 columns, 301-326 of 326 rows 326 total rows 326 Row details Copyright © 2026 Oxen Labs, Inc., All Rights Reserved Careers Privacy Policy Terms and Conditions


--- [Full text of "Sight and Sound (1993-02)(BFI)(GB)"] ---
FEBRUARY 1993 /£2/$4.95 ight \ | 64838 and oun From ‘The Driller Killer’ to ‘Bad Lieutenant’: Abel Ferrara’s bloodlines Hitler’s steel butterfly: Leni Riefenstahl Islam and African cinema Quentin Tarantino celebrates the Western | 73361 | 0 THE LONDON INTERNATIONAL ® FILM SCHOOL Congratulates Past and Present Students Newton Aduaka Sound Quartier Mozart (Cameroon) Fernando Camara Co Sound One Man’s War (U.K.) Philip Chavannes Photography A Family Called Abrew (U.K.) Martine Coucke Co Sound Exiles of Love (U.K.) Mark Forstater Producer The Silent Touch (U.K./Poland/Denmark) Tak Fujimoto Photography Night and the City (U.S.A.) Cathy Gulkin Co Editor Forbidden Love (Canada) Simon Johnson Co Producer Tale of a Vampire (U.K.) Bahram Manocheri Photography The Zebra Man (U.K.) Bridget Reiss Editor Two Forces (Nigeria) Shimako Sato Director/Co Screenplay Tale of a Vampire (U.K.) Geoffrey Simpson Photography The Last Days of Chez Nous (Australia) Ivan Strasburg Photography God on the Rocks (U.K.) Ivan Strasburg Photography The Cutter (U.K.) Valeri Vaughn Director British Graffiti (U.K.) On the selection of their films for the 36TH LONDON FILM FESTIVAL London International Film School, 24 Shelton Street, London WC2H 9HP 071-836 9642 Sight and Sound (incorporating Monthly Film Bulletin) Volume 3 Issue 2 (NS) 21 Stephen Street London W1P 1PL Telephone 071 255 1444 Facsimile 071 436 2327 Editorial Editor Philip Dodd Deputy editor Jonathan Romney Associate editor Pam Cook Assistant editor Rebecca Russell Editorial assistant Colette O'Reilly Research assistant Lucy Richer Contributing editors J. Hoberman Pervaiz Khan John Powers Mike O'Pray Tony Rayns Jane Root Amy Taubin Sub-editor Vicky Wilson Picture editor Millie Simpson Design and art direction Esterson Lackersteen Production Page make-up Spy Graphics Imagesetting Opus Bureau Origination Precise Litho Printer Chase Web (St Ives plc) Advertisingsales Mark Pearson Hucksters Ltd Riseden, Tidebrook Wadhurst, East Sussex Telephone 0892 784804 Facsimile 0892 784796 Business Publishing director Caroline Moore Managing director BFI publishing Colin MacCabe Advertising manager Mark Pearson Telephone 0892 784804 Newsstand distribution UMD, 1 Benwell Road London N7 7AX Telephone 071 700 4600 Bookshop distribution Central Books 99 Wallis Road London E9 SLN Telephone 081 986 4854 US distribution Eastern News Distributors Inc. 1130 Cleveland Road Sandusky, OH 44870 Annual subscription rates UK £25.00 Europe/overseas surface mail £30.00 Europe airmail £32.00 Overseas airmail £52.00 Special rates apply to BFI members, details available from Sight and Sound marketing department For queries regarding your subscription contact: Subscription Department Sight and Sound Tower Publishing Services Tower House, Sovereign Park Market Harborough Leicestershire LE16 SEF Telephone 0858 468888 Facsimile 0858 434958 Binders available from Sight and Sound marketing department: UK £7.00, overseas surface mail £9.00 Sight and Sound is part of the Research Division, BFI Published monthly by the British Filni{ Institute ISSN 0037-4806 Soun Leni Riefenstahl’s ‘Olympia’: 14 Abel Ferrara: 20 ~ in the Realm ofthe Senses’: 34 Features Film reviews IS MALCOLM X THE RIGHT THING? Judge Spike Lee as an artful and revolutionary film-maker not a simple ideologue, argues Lisa Kennedy. Plus Spike Lee talks with James Verniere 6 MAKING WHOOPI Andrea Stuart explores the extraordinary, and unlikely, success ofWhoopiGoldberg 12 PORTRAIT OF THE ARTIST AS A YOUNG WOMAN With their love of the body and nature, Leni Riefenstahl’s films fuelled the fascist aesthetic. By Thomas Elsaesser 14 THE GAMBLER From The Driller Killer to his new film Bad Lieutenant, Abel Ferrara’s hardboiled and brutal films have looked for trouble. The director talks to Gavin Smith 20 WHOSE AFRICAN CINEMA IS IT ANYWAY? Manthia Diawara reports from Carthage on the tensions between black African and Arab film-makers 24 THE FUTURE OF THEBBC The corporation should not be allowed to be both public service and commercial player, Bad Lieutenant 40 Damage 41 Deep Cover 41 Dracula 42 Edes Emma, Draga Bébe| —™” Sweet Emma, Dear Bobe 44 End of the Golden Weather, The 45 Folks! 45 Hellraiser III: Hell on Earth 46 Honey, I Blew Up the Kid 47 Laberinto de Pasiones/ Labyrinth of Passion 49 Labyrinth of Passion/ Laberinto de Pasiones 49 Living End, The 49 Man Trouble 50 Muppet Christmas Carol, The 51 Night and the City 52 Olivier Olivier 53 Public Eye, The 54 River Runs Through It, A 55 Sarafina! 56 Schtonk! 57 Singles 58 Sweet Emma, Dear Bobe/ Edes Emma, Draga Bobe 44 Traces of Red 59 Video reviews argues Nicholas Garnham 26 OBITUARIES Mark Kermode and William Bob Baker remembers the cinema Green on this month’s people who died last year 29 ~-video releases 60 Regulars Next issue on sale EDITORIAL Closed doors 3 LONDON Stella Bruzzi on 23 Februa ry courtroom films 4 CONFERENCE Celina Smith on blacks on British television 5 OBSESSION Quentin Tarantino on what makes a great Western 32 BOOKS Oshima; Frank Capra; ethnography; Albert Finney; reviewing television; Renoir; Rupert Murdoch; advertising 34 LETTERS Dracula; The Waterdance; top ten; Blade Runner 63 IF... Ben Woolley on presidents and the media 64 Cover photograph: Spike Lee by George Lange/Outline/Katz Denzel Washington as Malcolm X: 6 SIGHT AND SOUND 1/2 January releases from Connoisseur Video bf Evergreen STARRING JESS! a First a Girl Boys will be Boys Evergreen Directed by Victor Saville UK 1934 /Certificate U B&W/90 mins (approx) Price £12.99 plus p&p The Arsenal Stadium Mystery Jessie Matthews was a huge hit in this Gaumont-British riposte to the 30s Hollywood musical which was acclaimed on both sides of the Atlantic. “A considerable joy.” New York Times First a Girl Directed by Victor Saville UK 1935/Certificate U B& W/88 mins (approx) Price £12.99 plus p&p Blanche Fury Saville’s follow-up to Evergreen again stars Jessie Matthews in this sparkling original of Blake Edwards’ Victor Victoria. Arising from the ambiguity of cross- dressing is a film considered on a par with American films of the day. Boys will be Boys Directed by William Beaudine Madonna of the UK 1935/Certificate U Seven Moons B&W/73 mins (approx) Price £12.99 plus p&p Will Hay is at his very best as Dr Alec Smart, the bumbling Head of Narkover school, the male precursor of St Trinians. The Arsenal Stadium Mystery CONNOISSEUR VIDEO/ SIGHT AND SOUND READERS’ OFFER House of Games Directed by £9 QQ Thorold Dickinson @ UK 1939/Certificate PG Playwright David Mamet turned to the B&W/82 mins (approx) big screen in the 80s, collaborating : successfully as screenwriter with P. 12.99 pl ete pinsEsp Bob Rafelson, Brian De Palma and A footballer dies by poisoning during a game, and Scotland Yardinvestigates. This fast-moving British thriller provides wonderfully authentic footage of the great pre- war Arsenal team, both on and off the pitch. Madonna of the Seven Moons Directed by Arthur Crabtree UK 1944 /Certificate PG B&W/106 mins (approx) Price £12.99 plus p&p This wartime Gainsborough melodrama stars Stewart Granger with Phyllis Calvert as a schizophrenic wife dividing her time between a glamorous gypsy criminal (Granger) and her wealthy Italian husband. Sidney Lumet. His first feature as director was the widely acclaimed House of Games, starring Joe Mantegna and Mamet's wife, Lindsay Crouse in the lead roles. “An extraordinary, potent thriller, a hypnotic directing debut.” Sunday Express | would like to order the following tape(s). | understand that postage and packing will be charged at £1.50 for the first tape and 50p for each subsequent tape. .-. Copies of House of Games at £9.99 each --. copies of Evergreen at £12.99 each .-. Copies of First a Girl at £12.99 each .-- copies of The Arsenal Stadium Mystery at £12.99 each ++. copies of Boys will be Boys at £12.99 each .-. copies of Blanche Fury at £12.99 each « copies of Madonna of the Seven Moons at £12.99 each Blanche Fury OVisa OdAccess (Tick circle) Directed by Card number Marc Allegret Expiry date UK 1947/Certificate PG Name B&W/91 mins (approx) Address Price £12.99 plus p&p bs Stewart Granger stars Signature in this now critically acclaimed classic melodrama, which includes a wronged illegitimate cousin, an illicit love affair and a double murder! All of the above are available from Connoisseur at the mail order price of £12.99 plus postage and packing of £1.50 for the first tape and 50p per tape thereafter. Please note Connoisseur’s new address. Credit card bookings only on 071 957 8960. A full catalogue of over 100 Connoisseur titles can be obtained by telephoning 071 957 8957 during office hours or by leaving your name and address on our credit card hotline on 071 957 8960. Mail Order prices apply to UK. Delivery address if different from above Name Address Please cut (or photocopy) the entire coupon and send to: Mail Order Offer, Connoisseur Video Limited, 10a Stephen Mews, London WIP OAX Registered in England Number 246 3593 Please allow 28 days for delivery Prices are inclusive of VAT. VAT no. 448 8580 02 Contributors to this issue Bob Baker is co-editor of Film Dope Stella Bruzzi is a lecturer in film and drama at the University of Manchester SeanDay-Lewis is a freelance writer specialising im television Manthia Diawara’s new book on African cinema will be reviewed in a future issue Professor Thomas Elsaesser has curated the current NFT season, entitled ‘Inscriptions of War’ Nicholas Garnham is director of the Centre for Communications and Information Studies, University of Westminster Julian Graffy is senior lecturer in Russian at SSEES Sue Harper is the author of a forthcoming book on the British costume film LisaKennedy is a New York-based critic who has written widely on African-American cinema and culture Robert Murphy is the author of Sixties British Cinema Brian Neve is the author of Film and Politics in America David Robinson has published numerous books on cinema Gavin Smith conducted the recent S&S interview with Michael Mann Paul Julian Smith is Professor of Spanish, University of Cambridge Lesley Stern teaches film at the University of New South Wales Philip Strick is a writer and teacher Andrea Stuart formerly features editor of The Voice, is a freelance writer and broadcaster James Verniere is film critic for the Boston Herald Editorial | Closed doors As Michael Grade said last summer in Edinburgh, it was troubling that John Birt was appointed as the Director General of the BBC without even the pretence of open competition. Whatever this magazine’s reservations about other aspects of Michael Grade’s assault on the BBC, his comments on the corporation’s Management practices and culture seem only more telling in the light of the two latest appointments —- Bob Phillis as Deputy Director General and Liz Forgan as Managing Editor Network Radio - neither of whom faced any declared competition. (This is not to question the fitness of either of the employees, only the way they were appointed.) Landing a senior management post at the BBC seems increasingly analogous to being offered a Cabinet post: the candidate waits expectantly by the telephone for the chief executive's call. This might not concern us if the BBC were a private company. But it is not. It is a public institution, which, unlike its competitors, claims to be committed to “openness and accountability” — yet bizarrely does not feel that this spirit need extend to the appointment of its most senior staff. This is particularly regrettable since there are intriguing and positive elements in the Director General’s plans, announced at the same time as the appointments. While it is difficult as yet to know what bi-media policy might mean in practice, the extensive Programme Strategy review to be headed by Liz Forgan - if it consults widely — sounds promising, as does the determination of the corporation “to define the role, purpose and specific objectives of each channel or service”. On John Birt’s part there seems a general willingness to ask for explicit raisons d’étre for the identity of channels, programming choices and so on. Birt is not the kind of executive who defers to the status quo by reference to precedence or ‘common sense’. His two new appointments certainly suggest he is ready to face the future - as he understands it. Bob Phillis, formerly financial saviour at ITN, has been appointed to cope with the accounting mess; Liz Forgan, formerly Director of Programmes at Channel 4, has been appointed, or so it seems, to help to sustain the public service broadcasting remit. But there is a more difficult unresolved matter — how to reinvent public service television for the 90s, when no one believes, as they once did, that the BBC speaks to and for the nation? There needs to be a national debate about this matter - one which recognises that old solutions are no longer feasible. And it is in this context that the way Phillis and Forgan were appointed is disquieting. For it seems to suggest that the serious decisions are to be taken behind closed doors by elites, rather than at the end of open and hard arguments in which all of us might have an opportunity to take part. If public service television excludes the public, what point has it? JERRY ON LINE #1 Peter Lydon - James Sillavan © It has no heroes, no villains & the soene with the tortoise & the blowtorch made me gag. 4 good somdtrack & a first-time direotor we'll have our Ist critioal snooess in years!' SIGHT AND SOUND 3|2 Court etiquette Stella Bruzzi Of Anatomy of a Murder (1959), the promi- nent Boston attorney Joseph Welch said, “It’s almost immoral for Jimmy Stewart to become such a good lawyer without having to work at it as I did”. Rob Reiner calls his latest film, A Few Good Men, a “damned good old-fashioned court- room drama”, as if confident that his audi- ence will instinctively recognise the species. His allusion to an old-fashioned cinematic tradition carries with it connotations of heavyweight morality, integrity and stabil- ity. The classic courtroom drama locks into an idealised realism of polished oak and historical figures; memorable courtrooms are old, and those films such as Peter Yates’ Suspect (1987) or Fred Schepisi’s A Cry in the Dark (1988) which use (perhaps more authentic) modern courtrooms remain unsatisfying. At times the desire for classic realism can be taken too far - Stanley Kramer, for instance, discovered he was “hung on a hook” by the physical constraints of the real courtroom when he filmed Judgement at Nuremberg (1961). The oppressive aged wood of Reiner’s chamber in A Few Good Men allies his courtmartial with an established tradi- tion, lending the action a timelessness which transcends the limitations of the veneered 90s. But beyond such superficiali- ties, what makes an old-fashioned court- room film? At its bluntest, a “damned good old-fash- ioned courtroom drama” has to stand for something - Norman Jewison even gave his somewhat hysterical black comedy the incongruously sombre and edifying title ..And Justice For All (1979). The classic trial film is imbued with a liberal ideology which stands up for the good and the weak and defeats the bad and the wrong. Whether it be the war-trials film Judgement at Nuremberg or Robert Mulligan’s maudlin attack on racism in the American South To Kill a Mockingbird (1962), the moral remains much the same. The McCarthy-dominated 50s was the golden age of the trial film. Films became metaphors and courtrooms represented the battles being fought in society at large. The God vs Darwin debate in Inherit the Wind (1960) is a smokescreen, as is the trial of the Puerto Rican boy in Twelve Angry Man (1956). Even Elia Kazan, the film industry’s most infamous informer, sent a thinly veiled Message of remorse to those he blacklisted through the concluding court scene of On the Waterfront (1954), in which Marlon Brando exposes the racketeers. Is it perhaps possible to decode a murder mystery like Fritz Lang’s Beyond a Reasonable Doubt (1956), or read Compulsion (1959), Richard Fleis- cher’s film about the Leopold-Loeb case, as a covert indictment of the Rosenberg execu- tions? McCarthyism even proved a domi- nant factor in Otto Preminger’s classic mur- der mystery, Anatomy of a Murder, where Joseph Welch was cast as the presiding judge. The significance of Welch has long since been buried, but in 1959, when the film was made, he was a household face 4|2 SIGHT AND SOUND The epitome of American liberalism: Spencer Tracy in ‘Adam’s Rib’ ‘The classic trial film isimbued with a liberal ideology which stands up for the good and the weakand defeats the bad and thewrong’ who could command a far higher acting fee than James Stewart or Lee Remick by virtue of having been the lawyer who, on prime- time network television, inflicted on McCarthy his final humiliating defeat dur- ing the Army hearings. Despite its aspirations to be considered alongside such precedents, and its obvious allusion to Twelve Angry Men, Reiner’s A Few Good Men blurs the issues that seemed so clearly polarised in the earlier liberal fables. Who, for example, are the ‘few good men’ of the title? One would expect them to be the jury members, but these are mute and irrelevant extras. Perhaps the title tefers to the attorneys? Yet the principal lawyer (Daniel Kaffee) is a ‘son’ who gets absurdly drunk on a quarter of Bourbon, and his co-counsel is a woman. Colonel Jessep, the Kurtz-like marine commanding officer, is a ‘man’ - this we know from his Havana cigar, his salacious fascination with female superior officers and his ability not to blink under pressure - but he is not good. Stanley Kramer’s films were about good men ~ advocates of old-fashioned liberal val- ues who stood up for the rights of the indi- vidual in a corrupt world, who put their cause before themselves, and who believed in their country. In Reiner’s film, the only characters to expound such beliefs are the psychopathic marines. The good old-fash- ioned audience remains confused. How, then, has Reiner failed? First, the casting of Tom Cruise as Daniel Kaffee, the brash, young and inexperienced attorney assigned to defend the two marines, is prob- lematic. Kaffee has never entered a court- room before the start of this courtmartial, yet he wins his case. In the tradition of the Hollywood courtroom drama, this is highly irregular: Maximilian Schell, the youthful defender of the Nazi doctors in Judgement at Nuremberg, lost. The attorney in Hollywood has become the filmic equivalent of a Shakespearean hero - an opportunity to impress, digress and prove rhetorical prowess. The central actor-lawyer in 50s trial films was imbued with iconographic significance; Spencer Tracy alone, with appearances in Adam's Rib (1949), Inherit the Wind and Judgement at Nuremberg, became filmic shorthand for American liberalism. But Tracy was middle- aged, he had earned his stripes - and when an actor was deemed not quite distin- guished enough, he was eased into mid-life corpulence with the assistance of padding, greyed hair and glasses: witness Gregory Peck in To Kill a Mockingbird or Orson Welles in Compulsion. Tom Cruise, by contrast, still remembers his Oedipal phase; his Kaffee is a bright, amiable goofball who slobbers over his apples and needs a baseball bat to help him think. His obvious prototype is James Stew- art in Anatomy of a Murder, whose homespun quaintness is represented by a pipe, piano and fishing tackle. But whereas Stewart’s quirky accessories signify a solid, down-to- earth seniority, Cruise’s affectations do not. Despite the amount of film time spent in the courtroom, A Few Good Men is not a courtroom drama at all, but a rites-of-pas- sage movie, a parable of a boy on the brink of manhood who finally gains his stripes as he frees himself of the oppressive memory of his father, a grand old liberal lawyer, who, one suspects, bore a striking resem- blance to James Stewart. Perhaps the casting of Cruise is sympto- matic of the demise of the archetypal old, white male lawyer? Was Paul Newman in Lumet’s The Verdict the last of a dying breed? Trial films and their lawyers have certainly become more eclectic - Denzel Washington in Ricochet (1992) is a rare example of a black Hollywood district attorney, while Marlene Gorris’ A Question of Silence (1982) is a femi- nist deconstruction of the genre. The courtroom drama to which Reiner aspires was a chauvinistic domain in which women, if seen, were seldom heard. The past decade, even in Hollywood, has attempted to redress the balance with an increasing number of female lawyer roles — Cher in Suspect, Glenn Close in Jagged Edge (1985) and Kelly McGillis in The Accused (1988) being the most notable examples. Yet another archetype is emerging here - the modern woman lawyer, though powerful in her job, is lonely, cold and sexually dor- mant; her isolation from the outside world is confirmed by her inability to form a per- sonal bond except with someone (usually a man) she meets in the courtroom. Demi Moore in A Few Good Men is but an inconse- quential copy of even these imperfect heroes: she has little responsibility and nei- ther friends nor a partner. But with Allen vs Farrow live on televi- sion, who needs fiction? Conference The Real McCoy Celina Smith Despite meticulous planning and organisa- tion, the long-awaited ‘Black and White In Colour’ conference, organised by the BFI, teetered like a stack of cards brought to the brink of collapse by an agenda far too ambi- tious for a single day. With many of the industry’s prime movers and shakers gath- ered under one roof, a sense of occasion was unavoidable, but this only served to heighten expectations unduly. Neverthe- less, 1 came away feeling that something historic may have been achieved. The aim of the day was to examine black participation and representation in British television, in response to the screening of the BBC2 series Black and White In Colour last year. At the time, the series, which examined the role of black people within broadcasting in recent decades, triggered intense debate. Professor Stuart Hall stole the limelight from the start. His opening keynote speech masterfully identified the major issues and laid down the agenda. As Hall sees it, there have been some positive changes in the rep- resentation of black people either side of the camera in recent years. However, these have been largely restricted to certain areas - primarily light entertainment, sport and comedy. In the fields of documentary and drama, more advances are necessary. But Hall’s main attack centred on his belief that television is still failing to reflect the diver- sity of our multicultural society. For many television executives, ‘multiculturalism’ is no more than a euphemism for ghetto programming. Like much of the rest of the conference, the first debate managed only to skim the surface of its subject. Entitled ‘Multicultur- alism and Beyond’, it focused on the value of maintaining departments dedicated to so-called ‘ethnic-minority programming’. With seven people on the panel - about four too many - it was difficult to develop a line of argument. And Narendhra Morar, Managing Editor of Multicultural Pro- grammes at the BBC, was at the last minute unable to attend - a critical absence since along with many other producers, I had been looking forward to hearing his views on how black programme-makers could be better supported, and how high-quality black programmes could in future be made. Much of the audience discussion re- volved around the limited number of out- lets available to black programme-makers. Some questioned the wisdom of abolishing departments which produce multicultural programmes; others suggested cable and satellite as alternative routes. The second panel discussion, ‘Interna- tional Scenario’, highlighted a particular set of frustrations faced by producers today. With less money available for foreign filming, programme-makers are increas- ingly forced to find co-production money. Broadcasters, meanwhile, are leaning more and more towards commissioning pro- gramme-makers abroad. The obvious upshot: even less work for programme-mak- ers in the UK. To judge by the comments from the floor, merely reiterating these problems was not enough - one speaker pointed out that she already knew the prob- lems and what the conference should be doing was to suggest solutions. Not all was doom and gloom, however. In the third debate, comedy and light enter- tainment emerged as one area in which there had been some significant success for black performers and programme-makers. Lenny Henry was credited for much of the breakthrough, through his portrayal of a wide range of black characters, while pro- grammes such as The Real McCoy had also allowed work by new black writers to get on air. Lenny, who shared the stage with Char- lie Hanson and Jonathan Powell, brought welcome light relief to the debate. By the time the last session got under way, a general sense of frustration was beginning to build. The debate on drama ended with an impassioned speech from director Isaac Julien that summed up many participants’ feelings: “What we want is a Breal kthrough for black entertainers: Lenny Henry ‘There have been some positive changesin the representation of black people. However, these have been largely restricted to certain areas — primarily light entertainment, sport and comedy’ piece of the action, a bit of the cake; and we've been here long enough...” Overall, too little emphasis was placed on developing strategies - for example, the concerns of the black independent sector about aspects of the government’s Green Paper on the future of the BBC were barely discussed. Two years ago, the debate over the renewal of the ITV franchises took place with scant regard for the needs of the black community. If we are to avoid making the same mistake with the BBC, it seems vital that this time there is an organised voice. Stuart Hall summed it up when he said that the black sector would not like to meet again in ten years time knowing that it had failed to seize the opportunity to exert an influence at one of the most critical junc- tures in the history of British broadcasting. And so a decision was taken to set up a body to look at ways of responding to a vari- ety of issues, including the Green Paper itself. Perhaps the pack of cards dealt a win- ning hand after all. SIGHT AND SOUND 5|2 BBC 4 In November 1992, the United States z woke up. While Madonna’s Sex came and 2 went in an Octoberfest of disappointed reviews, & the Thanksgiving month was different. “Have syou voted yet?” or “Did you see Malcolm xX?” - there’s no telling which of these two questions was being asked more often on the streets of Spike Lee’s Brooklyn neighbourhood, the tree- lined Fort Greene. Bill Clinton might be Presi- dent-elect, but in that encroaching parallel universe that is popular culture, Malcolm had become the elect. Which Malcolm that might be was, of course, the subject of ongoing disputes between journalists, historians, African-Ameri- can intellectuals, activists, black Muslims - in short, everybody. If one amassed all that’s been written about Malcolm the man, Malcolm the myth, and Spike Lee, Malcolm X’s director, you’d have a dossier to rival any black nationalist’s FBI file. If you compiled everything that’s been written about Spike Lee since his theatrical debut with She’s Gotta Have It (1986), you’d have a book, as Laurie Anderson would say, thick enough to stun an ox. With Malcolm X, Spike Lee has made not his best, but his greatest film - a movie that pro- pels a complex, furious, little-comprehended black man into the pantheon of American icons. Malcolm X offers this figure of rage, rhetoric and religion as the black community’s best father - not Martin Luther King Jr, but Mal- colm is the father who knew best. Knew the lengths to which white racism would go, knew the psychological, economic and cultural dam- age slavery had inflicted on black people, understood the necessity of rage. “We didn’t land on Plymouth Rock, Plymouth Rock landed THE RIGHT THING? on us”, shouts Denzel Washington's X. Lee’s movie has muscled its way into our lives, not just by way of product tie-in - whether caps, shirts, jackets, dolls or potato chips - but with increased sales of The Autobiography of Malcolm X and publication of 20 or so related books. A national election and the release of a film - while it might seem impertinent, delusional even to link them, it isn’t. In due time, Bill Clin- ton will most certainly take his place at the helm of a government of mostly white men, but for a strange cultural moment it’s not com- pletely clear who will do more for the country in the next four years: Bill or a ghost conjured up by a 35-year-old director. In mid-November, one could tune into the cable station CSPAN and watch the President-elect stroll down Geor- gia Avenue, Washington DC’s black business belt. Out of the crowd, a well-wisher shouted, “T liked Malcolm X, have you seen it?” Clinton responded: “Not yet. But Jesse Jackson told me it was the best movie he’d seen in 20 years”. Here, on a blustery autumn day, the unfulfilled promise of JFK by way of this sanitised version met the unfulfilled promise of Malcolm X by way of an immensely important, if somewhat sanitised, biopic. In no small way, Bill Clinton and Malcolm X proclaim the end of an era; and each suggests the promise, and necessity, of change. There is an overwhelming sense that Malcolm X, the movie, will be looked back on as a turning point, not just for the nation, but for the film’s director. If Oliver Stone’s JFK could lead to the opening of sealed congressional reports, what might X bring about? For the past 12 years, popular-cultural figures have provided us with much of what > OLM X 6|2 SIGHTANDSOUND From ‘She’s Gotta Have It’ to ‘Malcolm X’, Spike Lee has been an artful film-maker whose cinematic, and cultural, achievements can only now be grasped. By Lisa Kennedy Media and messages: Denzel Washington as Malcolm X, in one of his many guises < was counter to the deep Republican freeze. America had become a place where lefty intel- lectuals slipped into comas. Those who didn’t went to sleep depressed and woke up to a Spike Lee, a Madonna, and a slew of rap and hip-hop artists. With the exception of the most life-and- death activisms — Aids and reproductive rights work - political practice had for the most part become the domain of the far or Christian right. So these celebrities became our cause. At the very least they were interesting; more often, they provided a way of posing necessary questions in a brutally dulling time. Under the sign of the one-two punch Reagan-Bush admin- istrations, Spike Lee and the Material Girl encouraged us to reconsider our most impor- tant categories: race and sex (and, when it was bound up with colour, class). That in the past few months each has paid homage to the other’s savvy only highlights their awareness of their place in the Zeitgeist. And that both Spike. Lee and Madonna have produced - not only within a month of each other, but as the era in which they made their mark draws to a close - what they consider their most daring works to date poses a question for them as much as for us: what’s next? But for now, when what is ahead is not entirely clear, what has been achieved remains remarkable. Spike Lee has had his share of a brand of left-handed compliment: he is hailed as a marketeer extraordinaire, a brilliant divin- ing rod of black sentiment, a director of mid- dling vision in the right place at the right cul- tural moment. He’s a phenomenon, but he’s no ‘artist. Underneath much of this rhetoric resides a troubling adage, and it goes some- thing like this: white men can’t jump but they are the only people who can be ‘pure’ artists. White men are historically unencumbered, while everyone else is burdened a priori by soci- ological baggage. Even today, features by film- makers of every colour, queerness or female- ness are invariably met with expectations more appropriate to documentary. Authenticity and realism become the measure of all things that come from the margins. Too often, the critical apparatus is not up to the task of understand- ing the difference between real life and the movies. If Mookie in Do the Right Thing (1989) throws a trash can through Sal’s window and ignites a riot, should we accuse the director of fanning the flames of racial hatred, or should we see in that moment a parable of the depths of anger in our cities? Mookie didn’t start the fires in Los Angeles, he forewarned of them. Trials and gifts Lee has always given us a lesson in what is unique about film as a medium, exposing its paradoxical position as both the product of one director’s vision and a sometimes collaborative, sometimes antagonistic — always entrepreneur- ial - undertaking. Could it be that Lee has made so many uncomfortable not just because the content of his movies needles, but because he has also debunked, or made complicated, the dream-factory enterprise - not in some avant-garde way, but as poet Audre Lorde has written, with the master’s tools. It is no exag- geration to see Lee’s adventures in movie- 8|2 SIGHTANDSOUND making as providing a game plan that could be adopted and modified by Latinos, Asians, women, lesbians and gays. Indeed, when 1991 was bannered as the year of black films, with 19 features released, the director was dutifully credited as having pried open the door. As autumn 1992 neared, Lee was quoted less about his vision of Malcolm and more about his trials in getting the film through post-produc- tion. Instead of doing his earlier riff on why a white man can’t direct a film about this partic- ular icon, Lee told of his trials with Warner Bros, especially his experience with the com- pletion bond company, which Warners brought in to oversee the financing of the film. In effect, they closed the bank mid-production. The sub- title to Lee’s By Any Means Necessary: the Trials and Tribulations of the Making of Malcolm X might be, “while ten million motherfuckers are fucking with you!” In the summer, Lee held a press conference to announce the “gifts” - not investments, but outright donations - given him by African-American athletes and entertainers to enable him to complete the film. A post-credit sequence in X acknowledges this community of backers - Bill Cosby, Michael Jordan, Janet Jackson, to name a few. In shifting from a les- son on how to experience his film to a discussion of the ins and outs of getting it made, Lee has reminded us that the experience of film, especially for a black director, is about more than auteur theory - there are too many committees, money folks and the bottom line to consider. When interviewed about Malcolm X, Lee has repeatedly said that his five other films have led to the making of this one. While this is a fairly typical artist’s line, in Lee’s case its truth can be demonstrated. In She’s Gotta Have It, Nola Dar- ling paints a mural called May 19th, after Mal- colm’s birthday; in School Daze (1988), an overserious undergrad activist-about-campus is teased with “yo, ease up Malcolm”. Most obvi- ously, the wandering fool Smiley in Do the Right Thing hawks doctored photographs of Malcolm, Martin and the two together, on the streets of the tragically heroic Bed-Stuy neighbourhood. But what Lee means goes deeper than the traces of the man that track across his films. The body of Lee’s work has articulated, even as it has created, a kind of Afro-American-centric- ity, something that can be seen to answer Mal- colm’s call for an intelligent black culture, one that would lay claim to our history, our variety and, yes, our reasonable fury. Certainly others before Lee have answered that call: Amiri Baraka, to name a Lee precursor and nemesis. Lee has forged a cinema that engages, even brawls, with white racist attitudes towards blacks, while striving to foreground the tales (almost exclusively New York stories) of African Americans. At times Lee’s imagination has shown itself to be sorely limited. Since School Daze, he has taken regular hits from black fem- inists, me included, for his portrayal of African- American women. Often it has felt as if ‘Uplift the Race’ had been edited to read: ‘Uplift the Race, the Men first’. In X, too, the female char- acters, even Malcolm’s wife Betty Shabazz, are vague shadows in a story about men. To some degree, Malcolm and the Nation of Islam help you to excuse the director. After all, women do not fare particularly well in much of Malcolm’s rhetoric. (This is definitely not Shabazz’s story, the one where she left three times, but Mal- colm’s, and is close to his autobiography.) If one wanted to be essentialist, something no one in the so-called black community can afford, one could say X offers the woman viewer very little, except as it relates to the plight of her man, her son, her father. Author Terry McMillan’s introduction to By Any Means Necessary attests eloquently to this predicament. “I sit on the edge of my son’s bed... When I pull the covers up and kiss his small forehead, I know that no matter how much] love him, no matter how much I try to teach him self-respect and respect for others, when he goes out into the world, he’s going to be the kind of man he wants to be. I just pray he won't be one of those young men in red or on the corner or hitting the pipe or making babies without bearing the responsibility. And I think of Malcolm. I pray that when he grows up he has one-tenth of Mal- colm’s courage, insight, wisdom”. Black familiar Wake up. From the final words of School Daze to Malcolm X’s admonishment, this has been a Lee mantra, an uplift imperative. “You need to wake up”, says a campus radical to a group of complacent peers who attend a black college that hasn’t divested itself of its South African holdings. Wake up to the political realities and responsibilities of blackness, American-style. Like an African drum rhythm, She’s Gotta Have It, School Daze, Do the Right Thing, Mo’ Better Blues (1990), Jungle Fever (1991), and Malcolm X have called to each other, repeating gestures and lines of dialogue, and dropping ancestors’ names with great frequency. These repetitions demand a close reading, a thorough working knowledge of Lee’s oeuvre. For example, the block that the NOI convert Malcolm walks on the way to see a running buddy from his days in Harlem is also the strip Flipper Purify travels to find his crack-addicted brother, Gator. Both scenes are punctuated by shots of black prosti- tutes plying their trade. The assassins that fell Malcolm in X are made up of some of the same actors who played the frat boys of School Daze: does this clarify what Lee thinks of those char- acters or complicate our feelings about the assassins, or both? No other film-maker seems to be rethreading meaning by the use of repeti- tion as much as Lee, with the exception of Brian De Palma, whose Raising Cain is like a con- tinual flashback to earlier work. A fondness for recasting, reminiscent of Cop- pola or Scorsese only more so, has been an extra filmic force in Lee’s work. One of the immediate charms of School Daze, which sported a cast of hundreds, was the critical mass of African- American talent brought together for the pro- ject. One would have to go back to Negro musicals such as Porgy and Bess or Carmen Jones to approximate the same numbers. Lee, and cast- ing director Robi Reed, have built up an impres- sive talent bank. Some of the actors who have appeared in more than one of Spike Lee’s joints include his sister Joie, father Bill, brother & < 8 2 Zz a New York stories: ‘School Daze’, top; ‘Do the Right Thing’, centre; Wesley Snipes in ‘Jungle Fever’, bottom David, Alva Rogers, Giancarlo Esposito, Ossie Davis and Ruby Dee, Denzel Washington, Samuel L. Jackson, Wesley Snipes, Debi Mazar, John Turturro, Raye Dowell, Veronica Webb, and Lonette McKee. While certain themes - skin colour, hair, paternity — have been regulars in Lee’s ensem- ble of meanings, some of the shot choices made by Lee and cinematographer Ernest Dickerson have become familiar too. Skewed, screwy, in other words, signature camera angles made their most witty and original appearance in Do the Right Thing, and then reappeared to varying degrees in Mo’ Better Blues, Jungle Fever and finally, startlingly, in the last minutes of Mal- colm X. In Jungle Fever Dickerson and Lee intro- duced an idiosyncratic travelling shot, where the characters are viewed from below and seem to be moving on the same plane as the camera. It is an extraordinary and self-con- scious shot and a very isolating take, one that is very much Lee’s own. And in the last 20 minutes of X, he employs it to its most pain- fully existential effect. I have often written about what I dub the “Black Familiar”, a kind of African-American madeleine - a moment in art when what is common parlance, an everyday part of being or growing up, rears its beautiful and tender head. Lee more than any director before him, with the possible exception of Charles Burnett, has consistently put images or dialogue on film that have flooded the viewer with the remem- brance of things past or recognition of things present. Mars Blackmon asking Nola Darling to grease his scalp, or the casual hostility of a Ken- tucky Fried Chicken countergirl, or the over- the-top importance given a pair of Nikes - it’s not until you see what you've been missing that you realise how desperately you'd been missing it. That the everyday moments that constituted one’s upbringing never made it to screen was a repressed given for the African-American filmgoer. Spike Lee has said to millions of African Americans: this is something from your life. Of course some part of that everyday is deeply tainted by racism. Lisa Jones, who is co- author of three of Lee’s the-making-of books, recently pointed to a scene in X when Malcolm is in prison and is reading the Webster’s dictio- nary definitions of ‘black’ and ‘white’ - the camera zooming from the negative meanings of black to the positive meanings of white - as an example of Lee’s capacity to capture in a single scene a psycho-socio-racial moment that would require pages of explication. But Lee’s greatest legacy has been his refusal of closure. While there are always annoying hints that Lee the ideologue wants to lead the viewer to a par- ticular conclusion, these have usually been off- set by the desire of Lee the artist/activist to render the world in all its messiness. Critics, of course, have latched on to Lee the ideologue, because soundbites are this nation’s junk food, and the director has made it easy for them to focus on that defensive, prickly per- sonality that tries to control (sometimes trun- cate) the meaning of his own creations. But the beauty of films like Jungle Fever, and especially Do the Right Thing, has been just how much they resist closure. In the US, the opposite of closure isn’t complexity or ambiguity; it’s a sequel. So the fact that Lee’s work opens questions up, frustrates, leaves problems unresolved, is a rad- ical act. Both Do the Right Thing and Jungle Fever have allowed the viewer to find the seeming protagonist an asshole and the possible antago- nist fairly sympathetic. That Sal of Do the Right Thing or Annabella Sciorra’s character in Jungle Fever are two of Lee’s most humane characters and are white attests to something more finely tuned than all the director’s “I was robbed” (he was) tendencies. If we are supposed to identify with Dap, the campus radical in School Daze, we cannot help being drawn to Julian (played sadistically and seductively by Giancarlo Esposito), leader of the Gamma Phi Gamma fraternity. But no one speaks the truth 100 per cent of the time in a Spike Lee movie, and here Dap is also an over- bearing ‘race man’ and Julian a meanspirited bully. (Ironically, in this regard, X is Lee’s least complex venture: Malcolm is the character we are meant to care about from beginning to end, and we do.) That School Daze ends with Dap and Julian looking into each other’s eyes in a mood of reconciliation reveals the basic optimism Lee harbours for black people. Bringing it all home Of course the movies have a semblance of nar- rative closure: Flipper returns to his wife; anew day begins in Bed-Stuy; a campus is reunited in the wake of much cruelty; a father teaches his son to play the trumpet. But credits sequences are the single most important structural element Lee employs to crack open the mean- ing of his own films. They act as a bridge between the reel life and real life, the two realms that Lee, and we the audience, inhabit. She’s Gotta Have It begins with a quote from Zora Neale Hurston. School Daze opens to a black screen and the sound of creaking ships, then comes a visual litany that begins with an archival sketch of the innards of a slave ship and continues with striking black-and-white photographs of African Americans from Jackie Robinson to Billie Holiday, intermixed with scenes of Civil Rights protests and Malcolm and Jesse Jackson holding a newspaper that carries. the headline, “King Murdered”. Actress Rosie Perez’s kickboxing dance to one of Public Enemy’s many anthems to black rage, ‘Fight the Power’, presages our entry into the tragic life of Do the Right Thing’s Bed-Stuy. A snapshot of a handsome, smiling Yusuf Hawkins - the 19- year-old black man attacked and shot by a gang of white youths when he and some friends went shopping for a used car in Bensonhurst, New York - is part of the prologue to Jungle Fever, which is dedicated to his memory. While the credits sequence of Mo’ Better Blues is more traditional, it strives for different associations: black arts, jazz, Lee’s own family history. Now X begins Patton-like, with a full screen of the American flag, the intoning voice of Washing- ton, intercut with the footage that lit the fuse to the LA riots - the videotaped beating of Rod- ney King. As Malcolm speaks, the clubs swing, and the flag begins a burn into an X. Lee’s epilogues bring it all home. The P SIGHT AND SOUND 9|2 < most controversial — Do the Right Thing - uses quotes on violence and non-violence from Mal- colm X and Martin Luther King Jr as counter- point to burnt-out tableaux of Sal’s Pizzeria. What are we to think? A tragedy of Greek pro- portions has befallen a neighbourhood, on some level it is entirely unclear what the “right thing” is - and Spike delivers this one-two punch. Martin: “Violence as a way of achieving social justice is both impractical and immoral”. Malcolm: “You and I have to preserve the right to do what is necessary to bring an end to that situation, and it doesn’t mean that I advocate violence, but at the same time I’m not against using violence in self-defence. I don’t even call it violence when it’s self-defence, I call it intelli- gence” Malcolm X ends as resonantly, though perhaps more optimistically. In the introduction to ByAny Means Necessary, Lee writes, “I was definitely not inspired by the blaxploitation film era of the late 60s and early 70s. Except for Melvin Van Peebles’s Sweet Sweet- back’s Baadasssss Song, I didn’t even watch those films back then, although I’ve seen almost all of them since. But not back then”. No, instead, Lee’s mother Jacquelyn was taking him to see Help! and James Bond movies, and to Broadway for The King and I. But Lee doesn’t have to tell us which are his favourite films for us to guess. There’s the Oz-like fade to colour in the middle of She’s Gotta Have It and the merrily daring Jigaboo- Wannabee sparring a la West Side Story in School Daze; in X, there’s the playfully goofy moment between Shorty (Lee) and Red (Washington) when they play at gangsters. Shorty: “I wanna be Bogart”. Washington (in his best Bogie imita- tion): “You’re too short to be Bogart”. Bang. Bang. In a little-remarked moment of cinematic quotation, Do the Right Thing’s vector of rage Radio Raheem (played by another Lee regular, Bill Nunn) tells Mookie the story of LOVE and HATE. If the scene rings bells, you only have to think of Charles Laughton’s cinema-studies classic Night of the Hunter, where a psychopathic Robert Mitchum posing as a preacherman relates the same eerie sermon. My favourite things In 1987, the year after She’s Gotta Have It called attention to a young independent film-maker out of NYU, playwright Adrienne Kennedy wrote the memoir People Who Led To My Plays. In it she provides a compendium of figures she credits with having changed the course of her work: her mother, Jews, Mrs Miniver, Mildred Pierce, her husband. If Lee were to put together a similar list, which are the names that would appear? No doubt, his mother, Joe Morgan, Willie Ran- dolph, his father, Martin Scorsese, George Bal- anchine, Billie Holiday, Ella Fitzgerald, Malcolm X, Muhammed Ali and many, many more. The list would be a magnificent, and in some instances surprising, cry. When African Americans create, it has too often been their blackness alone that is latched on to by (usu- ally) white critics. Let Kennedy’s book present a guide to understanding more fully the complexity of the African-American artist. ‘Malcolm X’ opens in the UK on 5 March 10|2 SIGHTAND SOUND DOING THE JOB Spike Leetalksto James Verniere about ‘Malcolm X’, white audiences, black Muslims and bad press James Verniere: How long have you been thinking about making ‘Malcolm X’”? Spike Lee: Since I made Dothe Right Thing. I read The Autobiography of Malcolm X — the most important book I'll ever read - when I was in junior high school. I began to look at the world with a new set of eyes. It showed me how we are portrayed in the media, how African-American stars in sport and show business smile and say all the right things, but never speak out, and how it all ties in. Malcolm X often comes down very hard on Christianity, especially on African-American Christian ministers. Do you share his views? He had a thing about Dr King, but a lot of that might have been jealousy because King was the object of so much adulation. At the conclusion of ‘Do the Right Thing’, you quote both Martin Luther King, who speaks in conciliatory terms, and Malcolm X, whose words have been interpreted as a call to arms. What was your point? I think we have to get out of this either/or thing. I think black America has to form a synthesis between the two views and make it work. In astory in a recent issue of ‘New Yorker’, the writer argues that Dr King appealed to the middle class, while Malcolm X spoke to the more oppressed, lower classes, the people in the ghettos. Why was Malcolm X’s message stronger for you, the product of a middle-class background and education? I don’t think Malcolm’s message excluded the middle class; he was just strongest among the underclass. To me, Malcolm’s greatest power was that he could make everything so crystal clear, so simple. He'd say, “A plus B equals C”, and you’d smack your head and think, “I never saw it that way before”. In the newsclips you use at the end of ‘Malcolm x’, I noticed several shots of him smiling and looking cheerful. But the only pictures I remember of him on television or in newspapers when I was a boy made him look angry and accusing. Malcolm had his own photographer, and one day he got upset with him because the guy was taking pictures of him looking mean and angry. He said, “I don’t need you to do that. I can get the New York Times to do that”. People have to realise that the media know what they're doing. They know how to shape a person’s image and make the American public believe it. I wonder if we'll ever see a movie by Spike Lee released without a host of combative headlines and contentious, often negative stories about you to go with it. ‘ Lone voice: Lee’s Malcolm X I long for that day. It’s not that I wake up in the morning and say, “What can I come up with today?” I get misquoted a lot. It must look as though I slip somebody some money so I'll get blasted in the papers and get publicity for the film. But this stuff always just seems to happen. You don’t enjoy the attention at all? It gets to be a nuisance after a while because I end up having to explain stuff never said in the first place. A cover story about you in a recent issue of ‘Esquire’ magazine ran with the headline: ‘Spike Lee Hates Your Cracker Ass’. What did you think of that? You know, I was on a plane and somebody sitting next to me was reading that story and he turned to me and said, “Did you really say that?” No, I did not say that. I don’t feel that way. I never have. The writer from Esquire (a white woman named Barbara Grizzuti Harrison) turned me offfrom the first minute of the interview because I guess she felt she had to tell me all about her black boyfriend and how they went to see Billie Holiday and... Right there, I stopped her and said, “C’mon, you're here to do a job. I'm here to do a job. Let’s talk about Malcolm X. You don’t have to convince me you're a bleeding-heart liberal. It’s not necessary”. Then she asks, “Do you have any white friends, Spike?” What the fuck is that? What white film director would get asked questions like that? Do you think the media are racist? Yes. Madonna swears by that old saying, “Print anything you like about me as long as you spell my name right”. I'd rather be out of the papers than see some false shit about how I'm anti-Semitic or how I hate white people. I'd rather not be in the papers at all, whether or not my name is spelled right. Those same accusations were levelled against Malcolm X. What do you think his legacy is? : I think the resurgence of Malcolm is about a void that young people are trying to fill. Ossie Davis said it best when he delivered the eulogy at Malcolm’s funeral: “He was our shining black prince, our manhood”. Young black men today need role models, and it’s a shame we have to dig up a dead man instead of finding someone who walks among us. Don't yoy fulfil that kind of role for a lot of : people? Aren't you a kind of role model, at least to young black film-makers who've sprung up in the last two or three years? If I really considered myself to be a role model, it would be a hindrance. It means you can’t have anything negative connected with you — Michael Jordan can’t be photographed drinking a beer. I’m an artist. I can’t wear that straightjacket. But don't you think that the integrity of your work and the discussion it generates make you a role model, someone worthy of the respect and admiration of young people? I'm not saying that’s not possible. I just try to lead by example. I think that 20 years from now, black athletes will dominate in golf because kids Prophet in the wilderness: Denzel Washington as Malcolm X talks to those who won't hear today have seen Michael Jordan with a golf club in his hand. I remember at the first LA premiere of She’s Gotta Have It, a skinny black kid walked up to meandsaid, “Hi, myname is John Singleton and I'm in high school now, but I’m going to make movies just like you”. For me, that’s where the reward is, though that’s not to say I'm the father of black cinema. I’m just going down the same road that Ossie Davis, Oscar Micheaux and Melvin Van Peebles went down. Their success made it easier for me, and every success I have makes it easier for others. Young black kids need concrete examples of people like them who make films, because until you see someone like you doing something, you can never imagine yourself doing it. So how do you feel now about Matty Rich, John Singleton, Reginald and Warrington Hudlin, Carl Franklin... the new black film- makers who have sprung up in your wake? I think it’s great. I never wanted to be the only one out there. Let them take some of the bricks. Do you think this film will appeal to white audiences? Yes. I've always had a large white following, but it’s been kept quiet because if that gets out, it just empowers me even more. This film is going tocrush that old axiom that white audiences will not go to see black people in a movie, unless it’s a musical or a comedy or an Eddie Murphy film. When that axiom dies, studios can no longer tell black film-makers they can’t give them a decent budget because their films are too much of a risk. Your budget for ‘Malcolm X’ was about $34 million, but you only got $28 million from Warner Bros. How did that work out? We raised the extra money because I kicked in half my salary and because we got gifts from people like Michael Jordan, Bill Cosby and Oprah Winfrey. The important thing is that it looks like there’s a $60 million budget when you see it on screen. I told Warner Bros at our very first meeting that this was going to be an epic on the scale of a David Lean film, and that it was going to cost over $30 million and be over three hours long. And you have to remember that $34 million is not a lot of money for an epic. But whenever I asked Warners for more money, I was told, “But Spike, you made She’s Gotta Have It for less than $5,000. Why do you need more money now?” I’ve had my differences with Warner Bros, but never with the people who market and sell the pictures. Barry Reardon, Rob Friedman, John Dartigue, Charlotte G. Kandel - they are behind the film 100 per cent, and they are going to sell it. At one time, ‘Malcolm X’ was set to be directed by Norman Jewison, but you publicly complained that the film should be directed by a black director, presumably yourself. Why was that? It wasn’t a personal thing. Norman Jewison is a fine film-maker, but he wasn’t the person for this job. I've never said that only black people can direct black films, and only white people can direct white films. But I think there’s no way that someone who wasn’t Italian-American could have done what Francis Coppola and Martin Scorsese did in films like The God father and GoodFellas. Somebody else could have done those films, but they wouldn’t have had that flavour. As usual in your films, you've cast yourself in ‘Malcolm X’ in a part designed primarily to provide comic relief. In basketball terms, I’m like the sixth man off the bench - I'm a spot player, a utility man, a person with limited abilities who knows what his role is, doesn’t try to play outside his game, gets the job done and lets the real actors take over - Denzel Washington, Ossie Davis, Ruby Dee, John Turturro, Anthony Quinn, people like that. Your film is being released at a time when racial tensions are peaking in America. What do events such as the Rodney King beating and the riots in Los Angeles say about racism in this country? I think the inclusion of the Rodney King video footage in the opening of our film, along with the image of the burning American flag and the words of Malcolm X, say that things haven't changed much. Things have opened up to some individuals, but not to the masses. There are more black people in the underclass than ever before: under Reagan and Bush, the country seemed to be moving backwards. What can this movie do for the masses? What can any work of art do? We want people to come out of the film spiritually uplifted and enlightened. In the past, you've been accused of being a provocateur - a columnist for ‘New York’ magazine once accused you of trying to incite riots with ‘Do the Right Thing’. Do you think that sort of criticism is racist? In a lot of ways, yes. How is it that black audiences are going to see a film and then re-enact what they saw on the screen, while the white masses can go in droves to see Terminator 2 with no problem? How many cops did Arnold Schwarzenegger kill in the first Terminator movie? Did we hear any complaints from the police about that? Yet Ice T does a song which is pure fantasy, and the whole world comes down on him. Do you think some of your potential white audience might be turned off by the impression that Malcolm X doesn’t belong to them? One of Malcolm’s biggest regrets was that he once told a young white co-ed that there was nothing she could do to help improve the conditions of black people in America. Later, he changed his mind. We wrote that scene and shot it, but we had to cut it out... I think Malcolm belongs to anyone who is ready to hear his message. Was there any thought of having Alex Haley, the co-author of the Malcolm X autobiography, appear as a character? He was a character in one version of the script, but I felt it was not the right thing to do. The film should not be about Malcolm X telling his story to Alex Haley. There was also a David Mamet version of the script. Mamet wrote that script for Sidney Lumet when Lumet was attached to the project. The script that I rewrote was by James Baldwin and Arnold Perl. Unfortunately, Baldwin is not mentioned in the credits because his sister, who controls his estate, petitioned the Screenwriters’ Guild to remove it. Her objection was that we had rewritten a lot of it, but I think she made a mistake. How concerned were you about the reaction of Louis Farrakhan, the leader of the Nation of Islam? Elijah Muhammad is still a revered figure to many Muslims today, and Farrakhan is reportedly concerned about how you portray him in the film. I flew to Chicago to discuss the film with Farrakhan, and he let me know that he’d be watching very closely. He wouldn't say anything until he saw the film. But he didn’t want us to trash the image of the Honorable Elijah Muhammad. He let me know that he would be very upset if we did. And how would his “upset” manifest itself? I might find out. He hasn't seen the film yet, and there are things in it I know he’s not going to like. Despite some striking similarities, your film isn’t JFK’. You don’t speculate about who killed Malcolm X, you present the assassination as a matter of fact. I don’t think there’s any doubt that the Nation of Islam was behind the assassination. The five assassins were from Temple Number 25 in Newark, New Jersey. That’s not to say that the Honorable Elijah Muhammad ordered the killing, but somebody in Chicago gave the word. And the FBI and the CIA were also involved - they knew it was about to happen but stood back and did nothing to stop it. You have no problem stating that as fact? I's common knowledge, and there are recently released FBI files to support it. Why do you have such vocal critics within the black press? Such influential.New York journalists as Armond White and Stanley Crouch are among your most vehement detractors. It would be presumptuous for me to think that all black critics are going to love my work. Black people are among the most disunited people on earth - I mean, Stanley ‘Crotch’ wrote a story about Jungle Fever in which he mentioned my height about ten times. What's that got to do with anything? Have you had a chance to think about your next movie? I'm going to rest, refuel and crank up again. I don’t know what I'll be doing next, but it will be a small film. What do yousee as the future for you and African-American film-makers? Is it risky for directors to pigeonhole themselves by making films for a specific market? I don't think there’s one specific film any black film-maker should be making, because there’s not one monolithic audience out there. Every film-maker should be allowed to make the film he or she wants to make. But I hope each of us strives to make great cinema, because if not, we'll just be another trend, and we'll soon be over. SIGHT AND SOUND 11|2 Has Whoopi Goldberg become a different kind of black female movie icon? By Andrea Stuart In a recent article in the Village Voice, Marpessa Dawn Outlaw, outlining the many obstacles for black female film-makers in “Gollywood”, jokingly includes on her list the problem of how to make a movie without using Whoopi to play “all the major roles” It is an oblique acknowledgment of Goldberg’s solitary supremacy in the curious history of the black female in Hollywood. It is a position which is under even greater scrutiny with the imminent release of Spike Lee’s three-hour blockbuster, Malcolm X. For while the men-only club that is New Black Cin- ema (Lee, John Singleton, Mario Van Peebles, Matty Rich et al) has finally got its first epic, black women directors such as Julie Dash MAKING WHOOPI Clothing the woman: WhoopiGoldberghas offended middle-class black Americaless by herchoice of roles than by her choice of clothes, bothinreallife and in films such as Penny Marshall’s ‘Jumpin’ Jack Flash’, above 12|2 SIGHT AND SOUND lament that they can’t even get themselves arrested in Hollywood, far less a five-picture, multi-million dollar deal like the one Spike has managed to pull off. But this is nothing new. Black women have always hovered like reticent servants on the edge of American cinema - eternal cyphers manipulated to reflect the ever- shifting state of play between the races. And whatever the seeming variety in black women’s roles, there have only really been two types of cinematic coloured girl. The first, of course, is Beulah, she of the brick bosom and bulging eyes, Hattie McDaniel pulling tight the stays on Miss Scarlett’s corset, the woman whose heavenly charge was to keep those “beautiful white babies” safe from harm. The other is Dorothy Dandridge, the tragic mulatto, a beautiful brown moth about to be singed in the dangerous fires of miscegenation. The legacy of this model’s bright, light skin can be seen in the faces of Robin Givens, Whitney Houston, the carefully bleached Miss Ross and every single one of Spike Lee’s heroines - bar- ring, of course, his sister Joie Lee. Goldberg’s unique success is to have avoided both female stereotypes. Indeed, cinematically she is not really constructed as a woman at all - neither nurturer nor siren, the faithful drudge of the ante-bellum South or the funky chick born to walk the wild side of the city’s mean streets, her movie persona is more in the tradi- tion of asexual ‘coon’ entertainers such as Amos and Andy or Bill ‘Bonjangles’ Robinson. The ‘coon’, a lovable black buffoon, the light- hearted cousin of the harassed but ever-faithful Uncle Tom, has roots as old as Hollywood itself. As far back as The Ten Little Pickaninnies (1904), black actors were cast as harmless, wacky, curi- ously pre-sexual, ‘don’t you just love ’em’ char- acters who never seem to grow up. But what about Whoopi? In 1986, in Jumpin’ Jack Flash, she played Terry Doolittle, a com- puter programmer who accidently receives a message from a British agent trapped behind the Iron Curtain. Infatuated, she determines to save him, and a series of comic events ensues, including one in which Goldberg is dragged through the streets of New York trapped inside a telephone booth. Her eyes ’a poppin’, scream- ing madly, you can’t help but be reminded of the comically fearful Butterfly McQueen in Gone With the Wind, the classic ‘pickaninny’ run- ning down the drive at Tara screaming “the yankees are coming, the yankees are coming”. According to black film critic Donald Bogle, the makers of Jumpin’ Jack Flash saw Goldberg as “an asexual creature from another universe” - and they weren't alone. When she took the role of Celie in Spielberg’s version of Alice Walker's The Color Purple (1985), one critic went so far as to compare her to ET. But looks aside, part of Goldberg’s other- worldliness (ignoring her stint on Star Trek) stems from the fact that she rarely appears with other black people. Until her recent role in Sarafina! (1992), she has never had a black male love interest, and there are few indicators in her films of a cultural context - for example, a family. The black lieutenant in Sister Act (1992) may seem an exception, but even he is nothing to her - not a lover or friend, not blood, just a token black cop in a sea of white cameos. The Color Purple, the only real exception, almost destroyed Goldberg’s career. (Indeed, fol- lowing the furore the film engendered, critics such as Bogle began to talk about her in the past tense.) The film’s portrayal of violent black men and long-suffering black women provoked an Oscar nomination (only three other black women -~ Hattie McDaniel, Dorothy Dandridge and Cicely Tyson - have received one) and a hailstorm of criticism, a disproportionate amount of which was directed at Goldberg per- sonally. There were demonstrations outside cin- emas at which the film was being shown, and a sanction was imposed by the National Associa- tion for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP), which declared that the film “misrep- resented” black people. And as if this were not bad enough, into the fray stepped Spike Lee, who called her a sell-out and dissed the way she looked. But though Goldberg’s remarks -“I want to be considered an actress not a black actress”; “I figure you look at me and you see I’m black, I don’t have to say it” - were hardly designed to win friends among political black people, and indeed still enrage today, she managed to sink her teeth firmly into Lee’s Achilles’ heel by asking “How many black women who look like me do you see in Spike’s films?” Many applauded - Spike’s bevy of brown babes and depiction of women in general have not made him popular with black women in the US. In fact, it is a criticism levelled at most of the new wave of black direc- tors, who have done little to broaden the range of roles for black female actors, even as they have given a whole generation of black men - Denzel Washington, Wesley Snipes, even rap star Ice T - a grab-bag of new dramatic roles. 2 The battleground for The Color Purple may 8 have seemed to be about politics, but in fact it 2 BFI STILLS. POSTERS AND DESIGNS was about class. And much of it was fought out on the symbolic landscape of Ms Goldberg’s clothes and appearance. The sartorial has been one of the few mechanisms for negotiating social hierarchies within black communities, so it is no surprise that the person who has appeared on the list of America’s worst-dressed women more times than virtually any other actor should provoke her community’s ire. While many clearly felt that The Color Purple was a whitewash, the venom of the black media emerged fully only when Goldberg arrived at the Academy Awards dressed in trainers and yellow leggings. It was bad enough that in films such as Jumpin’ Jack Flash and Fatal Beauty (1987), Goldberg - once described as looking like a “covergirl for Sharecropper’s Monthly” - should allow herself to be outfitted like a cross between a $10 Harlem hooker and a bag lady: all leopard-print shoes and sequined sun- glasses. But to dress like that in public evoked a cringing embarrassment among sophisticated urban black America, which lamented not just her taste, but her lack of political commit- ment as well. The curious thing is that in the street cred stakes (if street cred has anything to do with black authenticity), Whoopi beats Spike hands down. With his middle-class, college-educated background, Lee is more a child of the Cosbys than a child of the ghetto, whereas Goldberg is the second daughter of a single mother who was married and divorced before the age of 20, dropped out of high school because of a drug problem, and then spent almost a decade on welfare ($223 a month) in California bringing up her daughters on her own. Of course, being a welfare mother in San Francisco is a far cry from being one in Detroit or Dubuque, Iowa. In the thriving, striving alternative culture of San Francisco - a city in which everyone is chasing their own particular rainbow, is about to ‘become somebody’, ‘do something’, ‘climb out of that closet’ - to be on welfare is almost a career opportunity: at least for the drag artists, tattooists, film-makers and dreamers on the edge of the big time. What emerged for Goldberg from these experiences was a Stage act that eventually led to her much acclaimed one-woman Broadway show, Whoopi Goldberg, and to the attention of director Mike Nichols. What followed was a pair of stand-up films based on her character Fontaine, a drugged-out counter-culture hippy who finally kicks the habit in the early 80s and finds himself straight in the extremely bent world of Reagan’s America. He is a treat: tough, slightly over-the-top, lost. Such comic charac- ters are Goldberg’s strength, and it is when she is allowed to develop this on film, as in Ghost or the glorious tampax routine in The Player, that her talent most clearly emerges. At her best, Goldberg is the classic outsider. She appears entirely at home in the unortho- dox social grouping of her television series Bag- dad Café, in which she plays a non-malignant, female version of Jack Nicholson, but it is a side of her that has rarely been captured on film. It’s a problem that Richard Pryor would recognise. Having established himself as the genius of razor-edge comedy, Pryor found movie execu- tives clearly mystified about how to use him on celluloid. What resulted were films like Silver Streak (1976), and eventually a defunct film career. Removed from their very different con- stituencies, both Pryor and Goldberg became artists cinematically in search of an audience. Nowhere has the removal of the Goldberg character from any meaningful context been more problematic than in the romantic arena. The same thing happened with Eddie Murphy in Beverly Hills Cop: you take the black star out of the black community to make him more palat- able, but then who does he date? Studio fears that America couldn’t cope with Whoopi in the arms of a white lover were borne out by Fatal Beauty, where love scenes. between Goldberg and co-star Sam Elliot ended up on the cutting- room floor after objections from preview audi- ences. But even when Goldberg has been allowed half-hearted romantic brushes with white male co-stars, as in Sister Act, her out- landish appearance effectively de-sexes her, and a taboo activity like interracial love loses its charge. In order to cross over, it seems that Goldberg has had to jettison the loaded sexual exoticism usually associated with the black female per- former, as well as any potential political dis- ruptiveness,. Despite the promise of her early stage persona, in her film career, the apolitical mode has stuck. Her involvement in Sarafina! may well be an attempt to grasp some of the credibility that has eluded her, but even this is half-hearted, for despite some moving mo- ments, Sarafina!, as a musical, has all the radical potential of Yentl. Indeed, Goldberg’s appeal, at least in film, lies perhaps in the fact that she is unthreaten- ing, even relaxing. To many - black and white alike - her films are a delightful break from our society’s endless negotiations on the sub- ject of race, time out, from which we can return refreshed for the next round. And per- haps, therefore, Goldberg is, in a strange way, a hope for the future: a black performer whose black skin is an empty sign, like that of her white counterparts, that simply spells enter- tainment and does not carry with it the bag- gage of oppression or history. But here in the present, many black people ask, “How can you trust a woman who wears weave-on locks?”, and it sometimes seems that Goldberg has found an audience only to lose her racial identity. But perhaps what Goldberg represents is the struggle between the popular and the populist. In contrast with the urbane and urban Spike Lee, she shares and reflects the mentality of shopping-mall America, whose black citizens, like its white, are not politicised or well dressed, and whose only desire is to get on and get out, any which way they can. ‘Sarafina!’ opened on 15 January and is reviewed on page 56 of this issue Women on the edge: brown beauty Dorothy Dandridge, precursorof Robin Givens et al, top; Hattie McDaniel, goodhearted ‘mother’ of Miss Scarlett in ‘Gone with the Wind’, left; Goldberg in ‘The Color Purple’, above SIGHT ANDSOUND 13|2 Leni Riefenstahl protests her lack of interest in politics in her new autobiography. Yet there is areal connection between her love of nature and the body and fascist aesthetics. By Thomas Elsaesser PORTRAIT OF THE ARTISTAS A YOUNG WOMAN Leni Riefenstahl at 90: photographed by Helmut Newton in a pair of rainbow- coloured leggings, stiletto heels, a fur-trim coat, leaning against a sports car parked on a gravelled driveway. The clash of associations, the campy bad taste, the sheer improbability of this apparition (fronting an interview with Riefenstahl in Vanity Fair, September 1992) is suitably disconcerting. Is this nonagenarian femme fatale still worshipping at the fountain of youth, or is this a pose to make her part as the fluttering butterfly of the Third Reich more credible? Either way, the butterfly Riefenstahl is clearly made of steel: a specimen from a period that does not seem to diminish in scale as it recedes in time. For this incommensurabil- ity alone, the autobiography of the director of Triumph of the Will (1935) and Olympia (1938) - two films that have come, rightly or wrongly, to epitomise Nazi narcissism - merits attention, even without the tediously irrelevant but apparently still lucrative frisson of how inti- mate she has been with the Fuhrer. From someone who has always professed her ignorance of the concentration camps, or of Gestapo terror acts, the title of The Sieve of Time is, to say the least, an odd choice. Self-critical irony or haughty defiance? The phrase seems to have been inspired by a line from Albert Ein- stein: “one must take comfort in the fact that time has a sieve, through which most trivia run off into the sea of oblivion”. If media inter- est in Riefenstahl’s autobiography has focused on her personal ties with Nazi leaders, the book seems to have been written partly to redress the balance, to give more space to her life after 1945 (the Nazi era takes up less than 200 pages), and to record her formative period in the 20s, as a dancer, briefly with Max Reinhardt, then as a movie star in Arnold Fanck’s The Holy Mountain (1927) and her own The Blue Light (1932). Riefenstahl is the firstto admit that she is no great writer; but she has an acute mind, and always knew how to capitalise on her consider- able charm. The films, on the other hand, have always been controversial. And a number of key points emerge from the decades of debate: - In Riefenstahl’s work we can see the conti- nuity of Weimar cinema (especially Fritz Lang) with Nazi cinema. This thesis is based on the similarity of certain recurrent visual motifs (wild landscapes, dramatic skies, heroic bodies), shared genres such as the mountain film, to which Riefenstahl contributed as actor and Leni Riefenstahl in ‘Olympia’, opposite; ‘Triumph ofthe Will’, with its hymn tothe spectacular Nazi order, above director, and finally, a monumentalism which 2 Siegfried Kracauer, apropos of The Nibelungen = and Metropolis, has identified as the “mass orna- 5 ment”: a dehumanising, quasi-military, strictly & hierarchical and patterned representation of crowds (originally borrowed, as Lotte Eisner has E shown, by Lubitsch, Lang and others from Rein- hardt’s theatre spectacles of the 1910s). - Riefenstahl is responsible for two master- pieces, which, while politically abhorrent or at any rate highly suspect, nonetheless continue to be aesthetically impressive, indeed brilliant textbook examples of how to make a stirring film out of a tedious event (a political party con- ference), and how to create a four-hour narra- tive of drama, human interest and suspense out of a two-week sports meeting. — The reason we keep coming back to these films (and to their director) is because they have become prototypes of genres which to this day are central, if not to the cinema, then to the aesthetics of television. The coverage of presidential elections, political summits, the staging of the Olympic Games can all be traced back to Riefenstahl’s invention of the ‘photo- opportunity’ which is Triumph of the Will. More critically, Riefenstahl’s films are associated with the Nazi recognition that reality is an event which happens in order to be filmed. - Taking these points together, it can be shown that Riefenstahl’s career as an actor in the mountain films, as a film-maker of political documentaries, and as a photographer of van- ishing African tribes is all of a piece, illustrat- ing some of the quintessential features of fascist aesthetics and its visual imagination. This imagination continues to be fascinating to this day, because the kind of image-making it implies - which not only shows an abiding ten- dency to abstract the human figure and body from its historical and social inscription, but treats it as an empty sign or icon - means that the human figure can serve as asupport for any kind of message, propaganda or advertising, all of which instrumentalise the body. If this, broadly speaking, is the received wis- dom on Riefenstahl the film-maker, does the autobiography contain anything which might help us settle the ‘controversy’? The answer on the whole is: no. Riefenstahl once again defends herself vigorously against her critics, chronicling the innumerable law suits and libel cases she has fought since 1945, and citing testimonies, documents, affidavits in her favour. The most poignant case is perhaps that against Erwin Leiser’s Deutschland Erwache!, for using footage from Triumph of the Will as if it were documentary, and intercutting it with shots of concentration camps. Since her reputa- tion rests on the skilful juxtaposition of mater- ial, and since to this day she adamantly insists on her film of the Nazi partyrally being “a pure record of what happened”, her position is dou- bly ironic: a fact that entirely escapes her. The most politically damaging allegation she got the courts to clear her from was that she had used as extras in Tiefland (finally released in 1954) a family of gypsies she knew was destined for a death camp. While none of this may cut much ice in Riefenstahl’s favour, more inadvertently and > SIGHT AND SOUND 15|2 A balancing act: ‘Festival of Beauty’, the second part of Riefenstahl’s 1938 ‘Olympia’, a hymn to her abidinglove ofthe abstracted body < only obliquely, The Sieve of Time does shed some light on what made her ‘tick’, and to this reader at least suggests some thoughts which imply a slightly different interpretation of her career. First, there is the importance of dance to her world view. From her earliest, father-defy- ing passion for the Laban school of modern dance to her conception of herself as a self- expressive film-artist, a consistent line runs through her life which seems to focus on the body as total expressive fact. This needs to be seen historically. Not only was Ausdruckstanz something of an upper-middle-class craze in the 1910s and 20s (the Isadora Duncan phe- nomenon), but Riefenstahl] also shared in its wider cultural significance as part of a German youth movement (the Wandervogel) which was progressive in inspiration, libertarian, and whose Freikérperkultur (free body culture) has to be seen in the context of Wilhelmine collars, corsets and covered piano legs. As was the case with so many other movements to do with the body and sport in the 20s, the Nazis were able to co-opt some of the dance movement’s adher- ents during the 30s, until “self-discipline and ecstasy” (as one critic called it) became one of the central attractions of Nazi aesthetics. It seems clear that Riefenstahl] remained faithful to her early ideals in this respect, and not only as far as the outdoor life of skiing, hik- ing, swimming and diving is concerned. For instance, the autobiography leaves no doubt that she enjoyed sex, and liked talking about it — at a time when this was not fashionable. Not only did she have many affairs - with her cam- eraman, her fellow-actors, men she met almost anywhere and fancied - but film-making was evidently for her a very erotic and sexualised 16|2 SIGHT ANDSOUND activity. On the set of The Holy Mountain, for instance, she played off Fanck against star Luis Trenker, keenly aware of the older man’s sexual torment when she favoured Trenker. Another telling episode occurs in 1932, when Riefenstahl starred in Fanck’s S.0.S. Ice- berg, produced by Paul Kohner. A dual-lan- guage, German-American co-production (the American version was directed by Tay Garnett and produced by Carl Laemmle at Universal), it was shot in Greenland by a team made up of a film crew and a scientific expedition (the latter, one gathers was necessary in order to get per- mission to film among the Eskimos, whom the Danish government wanted to protect from disease). Sandwiched between her first meeting with Hitler at Wilhelmshaven and his visit to her Berlin studio to look at photographs (and disapprove of some Kathe Kollwitz charcoal drawings on her wall), the Greenland trip takes in an escaped polar bear, a switch of lovers (from Hans Scheeberger to Hans Ertl), and a res- cue by Ernst Udet, the stunt pilot in Fanck’s films, of one of the scientists, Dr Sorge, whose boat smashed when a huge iceberg began to ‘calve’. There exists an account by Sorge himself (Mit Flugzeug, Faltboot und Filmkamera in den Eis- fjorden Grénlands, Berlin 1933), which focuses on the research part of the expedition. Where Sorge mentions Riefenstahl, he complements her story, down to the details of her urinary problems and the fact that she not only kept a portrait of Hitler in a sealskin frame by her bed, but kept quoting — to jibes from the scientists — from her bedtime reading, Hitler’s Mein Kampf. What I think is significant about this episode is that Riefenstahl’s pan-eroticism and nature worship was matched by a very down-to- earth, ‘modern’ appreciation of her own sexu- ality, which had little of the repressive, prudish atmosphere that surrounded Hitler. But it also tells something about the film-making milieu to which she belonged. It was Fanck, himself a curious mixture of the arctic explorer-scientist and autodidact film-technology freak, who taught Riefenstahl film-directing. The glimpses one gets of the milieu of mountaineering and movie-making are as intriguing as they are brief: Fanck, an independent producer, funded by UFA’s American rival, Universal, with a crew partly on loan from UFA’s prestigious but mav- erick Kulturfilm production unit, and made up partly of Fanck’s First World War airforce cronies, with the troublesome Luis Trenker itching to make his own films; and Riefenstahl taking a rowing boat to sunbathe on an iceberg with one of the cameramen. Acamerawoman’s film Fanck wasat heart a still photographer, forever experimenting with different lenses, exposure times and developing baths. Influenced by the Renger-Patsch tradition of the New Realism, he wanted to bring to his movies of mountain, ice and snow the textures and tonalities of the pho- tographic print: using slow motion, backlight- ing, contrasts in scale and strong separation of background and foreground. None of this was lost on Riefenstahl when she came to shoot Triumph of the Will, and it may have some bear- ing on the argument of how ‘inept’ it is as a piece of film-making. Rather, I would argue that it strikes one as a camera(wo)man’s film, introducing a certain photographic aesthetic into the hitherto shunned areas of crowds, power and politics. If Triumph of the Will is the triumph of form over substance, this is partly because it is a box of photographer’s tricks, blended with point-of-view editing techniques picked from feature film-makers, squirrelled away like a film-school graduate, and then flamboyantly, impetuously shown off on acom- mission (affidavits to the contrary notwith- standing) she could not refuse. It is this ‘experimental’ dimension which to this day makes some documentary film-makers her most ardent fans, professing to have ‘learnt from her’. But these film-makers also know that when helping themselves from Triumph of the Will, a little goes a long way, for part of the potency of the film is that, in its genre, it goes too far - but on a road television documentary has often travelled since. Fanck also put Riefenstahl in touch with Harry Sokal, the Jewish producer who backed her financially and logistically for The Blue Light, giving her the opportunity to found her own production company, a fact which was very important to her not only after 1945, when she argued in her defence that neither Triumph of the Will nor Olympia were ‘official’ Nazi films, commissioned and financed by the party. The salient question, in a way, is not the extent to which Triumph of the Will has or has not influenced documentary film-makers (there are tributes not only from Grierson but also from Paul Rotha), but what kind of causal link ~ and therefore responsibility - can be estab- lished from this film to the Nazi newsreel tra- dition, and the countless documentaries and propaganda films made in the 30s and 40s. From a film-historical point of view, the mal- leability of the material through editing is less remarkable than the contribution made to the editing by the sound montage and Herbert Windt’s score, sound obviously being the tech- nology in which to be experimental in the 30s. It is here that Riefenstahl did something origi- nal: putting staged tableaux to movement, music and vocals. Hence the point Riefenstahl expends many pages refuting — that there was re-staging and re-shooting on Triumph of the Will, as’ mentioned in Albert Speer’s Inside the Third Reich - is something of a red herring. Speer, who acknowledges the difficulties Riefenstahl had, as an independent-minded woman, with the party hierarchy, confesses, somewhat disingenuously, to being shocked when Streicher, Rosenberg and Frank agree to re-takes in the studio. Hess, “with his special brand of ardour, turned precisely to the spot where Hitler would have been sitting, snapped to attention and cried: ‘Mein Fuhrer, I welcome you in the name of the Party Congress’. He did it all so convincingly that from that point on I was no longer sure of the genuineness of his feelings”. Riefenstahl herself mentions the many re-shoots necessary for Olympia, mainly in connection with the stormy love affair she had with the American decathlon winner, Glenn Morris, which apparently made her miss some crucial heats in the competition. Since Triumph of the Will and Olympia have to this day remained, for an international public at least, the best-known films the Nazi cinema produced, the fact that Riefenstahl directed both of them weighs against her when she protests her lack of interest in politics or propa- ganda. However, from a film-historical perspec- tive, the films may not belong together as logically as is usually asserted. Olympia is stylis- tically quite different from Triumph of the Will. Yet even if one emphasises stylistic similarities (low-angle shots of erect bodies against an empty sky, and so on) there remain substantial differences in terms of function. While Triumph of the Will was made mainly in order to bind the leaderless SA to the Party, after the Rohm putsch and the ‘night of the long knives’, Olympia was a compromise project, negotiated between the regime and the Olympic Commit- tee, which aimed to give to the world an image of the games as supra-individual and supra- national, a celebration of youth in communal competition. That these representations are carefully ‘constructed’ is evident, but this in itself hardly differs from the construction of the nation on the nine-o’-clock news. What is more indicative is the use the games, and Riefenstahl’s film-making, seem to have been put to - namely to front another enterprise altogether, that of allowing the Nazis their first experiments with television, and the live trans- mission of events. The new technology and its potential preoccupied the various ministries involved much more than the ideological con- tent of Olympia. Two issues come into play here - one is that the Nazis, while keeping a tight rein on film production, did not consider film to be their main propaganda medium. As far as the audio- visual media were concerned, it was radio that interested them, and its penetration into the home and potential as a public address and alarm system were as significant as what was broadcast. During the war, simultaneous broadcasting and the emphasis on ‘live-ness’ became a crucial part of the morale-boosting, mass-mobilising function of the media. For these objectives, film was too slow a medium. One might even argue that the Nazi film indus- try was developed as an entertainment indus- try, for the films and stars acted as induce- Seateee Lost horizon: the post-war film ‘Tiefland’, whose utopian pastoralism belies the frustrations involved in its making ments to bring spectators to the newsreels. None of the technological or media-political considerations seems to have occurred to Rief- enstahl: the memoirs make no mention of the presence of television cameras at the games. Eroticised relationships There is perhaps a more important reason why it did not strike her. The way the cinema devel- oped in Germany was not at all in the direction of Riefenstahl’s own idea of cinema. In the 30s and 40s, UFA, Terra and Tobis - the three major production companies - were run by and large as studios churning out films designed to make money. While they were broadly in line with the regime, they continued a genre cinema already well established in the 20s whose mainstays were melodramas and comedies, musicals and bio-pics - genres whose formulas were often copied directly from Warner Bros or MGM prototypes. Where politics massively operated in the Nazi cinema was in the realm of personnel politics (the compliance of UFA in Hitler’s racial policy is well documented) and in the style and content of the newsreel. Not only was Riefenstahl an ‘independent’ producer/film-maker in a film business increas- ingly centralised and industrialised, but - as already indicated - hers was in inspiration an art and experimental cinema. While her films, as well as Fanck’s, were released through UFA, UFA was not their production company: on the contrary, Fanck refers to himself as the “Freiburg School”, and had little but contempt for studio-bound film-making as practised in Neu-Babelsberg or Munich. Riefenstahl was less radical, but she too was committed to the out- door view of cinema. Riefenstahl’s aversion to being identified with propaganda, newsreel and commissioned films has, it seems to me, more to do with her self-image as a film-artist than with any attempt at political whitewash. The question the memoirs prompt, then, when viewed from the point of view of film industry and film politics, is how did Riefen- stahl fit into the Nazi cinema, as opposed to >» SIGHT AND SOUND 17|2 < echoing motifs or tendencies of other Nazi films? The answer seems to be, not very well. For one of the puzzling aspects of her career is why she made only these two films, if she was so important to the regime. The one other film she worked on throughout the 30s and 40s was Tiefland, and what she documents about this project is a tale of failures and disappoint- ments, of outright official betrayal. It is here that Riefenstahl’s paranoia is most noticeable. Perhaps in order to explain to her- self the lack of support she received as a film- maker, she builds up Goebbels as her arch foe, though whether this tortured and highly eroti- cised relationship explains anything about her film-making career is less clear. It does demon- strate the fact that Riefenstahl was not very adept either tactically or analytically, revealing once again her tendency to personalise and sex- ualise whatever happened to her. In fact, Goebbels brings out the melodramatist and pulp novelist in her: “He said, looking round the dark, deserted street: ‘We can’t stay here, you'll be drenched’. I glanced at my small Mer- cedes parked in front of the building... There was only one thing on my mind: nobody must see us... As we turned into the forest I saw him produce a gun from his raincoat pocket and thrust it into the glove compartment. Noticing my alarm, he smiled. ‘I never go anywhere without a weapon... He grabbed my breast and tried to force himself on me. I had to wrestle my way out of his arms... Besides himself with rage, he held me against the wall and tried to kiss me. His eyes were wide open, and his face com- pletely distorted”. Cult of the body beautiful To be fair, Riefenstahl knew there was a thin line between being the Fuhrer’s favourite film- maker and ending in disgrace, so there may have been a grain of truth in the paranoia, a sense of real terror, when trying to dodge not only Goebbels’ grasping hands, but film com- missions from the Party. Riefenstahl knew that these things could go horribly wrong, as they did in the case of her friend and cameraman, Willy Zielke. Zielke was commissioned by the Reichsbahn to make a film celebrating the Ger- man railway’s centenary, giving the story of the inventors and developments from the steam engine to the diesel locomotive. In The Steel Ani- mal, “Zielke had turned this difficult material into a thrilling picture. His locomotive looked like a living monster. The headlights were its eyes, the instruments its brain, the piston its joints, and the oil dripping from the moving pistons looked like blood... When the officials saw the movie, they were so horrified - accord- ing to Zielke - that they left the room speech- less”. The film was not only not shown, the railway board had the prints destroyed. Riefen- stahl tried to intercede, and arranged for Goebbels to see a print. He thought it showed talent, but found it too abstract for the public: “It could be a Bolshevist film” “But that’s no reason to destroy the film”, replied Riefenstahl. “I’m sorry, but the decision is entirely up to the Reichsbahn, which has financed the film”. More than the film was destroyed: Zielke’s sanity suffered, and he was interned in a men- 18|2 SIGHT ANDSOUND Looking for direction: Riefenstahl on location for ‘Tiefland’ tal hospital, apparently blaming Riefenstahl for his committal. Beyond the human element, the episode also shows that there were a number of non- fiction film-makers who tried to continue the more experimental and formal film-making of the 20s, like Walter Ruttmann’s, influenced by Eisenstein and Russian film - an art cinema, in other words, with which Riefenstahl had a great affinity. With the beginning of the war, and the gearing of the industry into a more overt propaganda and morale-boosting ma- chine, directors like Riefenstahl saw their opportunities for making films dwindle, and Riefenstahl herself became more and more marginalised compared to directors who, like top managers or the captains of industry, put themselves in the service of the regime. Direc- tors like Veit Harlan and Wolfgang Liebeneiner, Karl Ritter, Gustav Ucicky and Josef von Baky fitted this industrial strategy completely, and had the same cynical attitude to keeping pro- duction going at any price (as with Harlan’s Kol- berg) as Speer had in the armament industries. It may be Riefenstahl’s vague knowledge of this that made her so sensitive about the accusation of using gypsies from the concentration camp, for while the use of forced labour might have been possible for a major production, it adds insult to injury where the mostly aborted Tiefland project was concerned. However, she never seemed to realise that her cult of the body beautiful had become a blasphemy in a Germany where bodies were labour power to be worked to death in munitions factories or rocket test sites; this in turn made her inca- pable of seeing those who could not forgive her as anything other than personal enemies, moti- vated by spite and “human nastiness”. Although it would be plainly absurd to sug- gest that Riefenstahl was a pawn of the Nazi regime, there is a sense in which she had little control over what became of her career, which was effectively finished before the outbreak of the war. The memoirs both know this and dis- avow this knowledge. How, then, can one understand Riefenstahl’s “I only live for what is beautiful” other than as the desperate plea of someone who could never see herself in rela- tion to any kind of history, or in any kind of social or political context, and who was there- fore incapable of humour, wit or irony, but also incapable of recognition, reflection, remorse? The world view that inspired all her actions is certainly older than Nazism and goes deeper: the contrasts between nature and civilisation, between the simplicity of physical strength and the complications of social existence. Even the basic untruth of her position, namely that in order to glorify and romanticise unspoilt nature and simplicity, she had to deploy all the technological acquisition of civilisation, as well as participate in a state apparatus of Byzantine deviousness, is not of itself what makes her a Nazi: to that extent, Riefenstahl may have been a fellow-traveller and a beneficiary, but noth- ing like as brazenly as many a Party-member (which she was not) officially rehabilitated dur- ing the 50s and allowed to enjoy top positions in West German government, industry and the judiciary. Having survived so long would appear to have been a mixed blessing for her, since it traps her into perpetually having to downplay the brief period in her long life which alone still makes her news; yet the lime- light also blocks her life from being looked at more kindly or more dispassionately. It is because she is still around that fingers will be pointed at her and, in turn, fans or ardent admirers will step into the breach. Tragic dimension Does it mean there is necessarily a tragic dimension to Riefenstahl’s life? Perhaps not, but there are nonetheless ironies that make one pause, for she seems to have borne the brunt of public shame more openly and more frequently than the real culprits of the regime, most of whom, as far as film-making goes, were quite happily reintegrated into the industry. After 1945, the vast majority of them found work, even Veit Harlan, whose Kolberg and Jud Stiss did not even split opinion between admir- ers and detractors the way Riefenstahl’s films had always done. No, it was not the exposed nature of her films that put paid to her film- making career, but the fact that she was not ‘one of us’, that she had never really belonged in the first place. She was, it seems, as much an outsider to the film industry during the Third Reich as she was to be in the Federal Republic. It is doubtful whether Riefenstahl fully understood even the film-historical side of the history in which she briefly played such a prominent part, for the memoirs give no clue to it. Yet it is difficult to take such a balanced view of Riefenstahl’s memoirs or too charitable a view of her historical role. Compared to the aristocratic unrepentance displayed by another vieille dame indigne from Hitler’s entourage, in Syberberg’s Confessions of Winifred Wagner, the irritation provoked by The Sieve of Time comes less from Riefenstahl’s apolitical aestheticism than from her sympathy-seeking. Shocked by the Holocaust as she now seems, and no doubt also aware of some dimensions of this story she does not touch on, she constantly buttonholes the reader, as if to absolve herself from a knowl- edge for which there could be no forgiveness, while evidently preferring the verdict of irre- deemable naivety to that of culpable ignorance. Film history may not be able to help her out of this impasse, even where it can recognise that such an impasse exists. ‘The Sieve of Time’, by Leni Riefenstahl, is published by Quartet Books, £30 The Department of Theatre, College of the Arts, invites applications for a specialist in VANCOUVER FI LM SCHOOL cinema/video history as it inaugurates a new MFA emphasis in Cinema/Video Directing. AN INTENSIVE AWARD-WINNING THE MOST CONCENTRATED AND ONE-YEARCURRICULUM PROVIDING § COMPREHENSIVE HIGH-END A COMPREHENSIVE FOUNDATION IN COMPUTERANIMATION PROGRAM FILM PRODUCTION TECHNIQUES. IN NORTH AMERICA. To begin in Autumn quarter, 1993, the individual will teach courses in this area and in production, pursue research and creative activity, and share leadership for the development of this degree emphasis within the context of the Theatre Department. FEATURES: MORE HANDS-ON FEATURES: CUTTING-EDGE PRODUCTION EXPERIENCE THAN SOFTWARE, LOW STUDENT/ MOST FOUR-YEAR PROGRAMS. EQUIPMENT RATIO, STATE-OF-THE- INDUSTRY INSTRUCTORS, SMALL ART HARDWARE, UPTO 2,000 CLASS SIZE, 16MM PROFESSIONAL HOURS TRAINING. HARDWARE. CALL:(604) 685-5808 OR WRITE TO: THE VANCOUVER FILM SCHOOL #400 —1168 HAMILTON STREET VANCOUVER, BRITISH COLUMBIA CANADA V6B 2S2 “J QUALIFICATIONS: Ph.D with emphasis in cinema/video history. Publication record, university teaching and production experience are highly desirable. Prefer candidate with related interests or experience in theatre history and criticism. Assistant Professor, tenure-track. LOCATION: Directing cinema/video program has three area specialists who are a component of the twenty-one member faculty. Cinema/video occupies Haskett Hall and is supported by related resources in the Department of Theatre in Drake Union which contains a 600 seat proscenium theatre and a 250 seat flexible/hrust theatre scenic and costume studios; and in the Wexner Center for the Arts. DEADLINE: March 30, 1993. Send letter of application, vita and credentials to: Dr. Kathleen Conlin, Chair/Director of Theatre Department of Theatre The Ohio State University 1089 Drake Union 1849 Cannon Drive Columbus, Ohio 43210-1266 The Ohio State University is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer. Qualified women, minorities, Vietnam-era veterans, disabled veterans and individuals with disabilities are encouraged to apply. THAT OBSCURE a 2 OBJECT..... cineastes/ | | FOUND! | buffs Hard-to-get movies on f [ video found worldwide. Classics, rarities, books hip a CASE eat I EVERYTHING YOU EVER ee Seen | Sarees, releases. mags EVERYTHING YOU NEED TO KNOW ABOUT MOVIES, ACTORS, PLOTS ETC. FILMSEARCH { { PHONE, WRITE OR FAX FOR OUR FREE CATALOGUE WITH INTERNATIONAL ston i | OVER 13,000 TITLES! CINEMA HOUSE within catalogue __ subscription: 93 WARDOUR STREET [£1.00 (7-1Res) [ ALL ORDERS DISPATCHED he ee pe EXPORTS WORLDWIDE OUR TEL: 081-459 6728 SUMS BG heed GR, | decorum books\ss) SPECIALITY OR FAX YOUR ; 24 Cloudesley S a B72 a 602°) SYLVIA EDWARDS (S&S), | J oudesiey ay REQUIREMENTS TO: 23 MARCHMONT ROAD, London N1 071-792 9273 (FAX) 071-494 2695 EDINBURGH EH9 1HY i § 117 NOTTING HILL GATE, Telephone: 031 229 5165 SS Soo LONDON W111 THE GAMBLER From ‘The Driller Killer’ and ‘Ms .45’ to ‘Bad Lieutenant’, Abel Ferrara’s low-budget, hardboiled, and brutal films have looked for trouble. He talks here with Gavin Smith 20|2 SIGHT ANDSOUND For a dozen years now, New York-based director Abel Ferrara, usually teamed with screenwriter Nicholas St. John, has sur- vived on the edge of the mainstream movie business, half-aided, half-held back by his cult reputation as a maverick. No question his movies look for trouble: The Driller Killer (1979) was the original video nasty, though it has no such notoriety stateside; long before Thelma & Louise, with its Repulsion meets Death Wish gun- play, Ms .45 (1980) was a potent feminist thriller that won its director a critical following. Fer- rara’s directorial attitude has always been in- your-face, unflinchingly brutal yet increasingly stylish, making his points with growing techni- cal skill. Crucially, between the gritty urban psycho-on-the-loose thriller Fear City (1984) and the stylish, assured update of Romeo and Juliet, China Girl (1987), Ferrara directed two episodes of Miami Vice, as well as the high-gloss, stream- lined television pilot for Michael Mann’s Crime Story series, sealing his reputation as a can-do action director with style to spare. And then, after the false start of Cat Chaser (1989), which was re-cut by the producers, came King of New York (1990), which combined state-of-the-art sleaze, over-the-top violence and a political cri- tique of Reaganism with exquisitely arty visu- als. Ferrara seemed poised to go mainstream if he wanted - but instead side-stepped into his greatest film yet, Bad Lieutenant (1992), a relent- lessly bleak character study of a lost soul’s spir- itual degradation in contemporary New York City. An ultra-low-budget film made in hit-and- run style in 20 days, it is to Ferrara what another masterpiece, Bring Me the Head of Alfredo Garcia, was to Sam Peckinpah, in precisely the same hardboiled tradition of personal/artis- tic/spiritual statement. Ferrara has since com- pleted The Bodysnatchers (1992), which reworks the Invasion of the Body Snatchers scenario and relocates it to an army base in the South. And right now he’s shooting Snake: Eyes, again teamed with Nicholas St. John, a Hollywood love-obsession triangle with Harvey Keitel as a film director and Madonna and James Russo as stars in a Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf? meets The Player storyline. Gavin Smith: Given that this is a character study, why do we get no sense of the Bad Lieutenant's past, how he has got to the state he’s in? Abel Ferrara: I don’t think the past necessarily tells you why somebody is the way they are - I’m more concerned with the future than with the past. Who cares? That’s the way he woke up that morning. But the pain he’s in comes from somewhere. It comes from his heart. I think pain is in one way or another in everyone. Is the character based on yourself at all? I hope so. But you don’t gamble? No. Or very very rarely. But I’ve been around a lot of heavy, degenerate gamblers, so I can see what it does to people. It’s a lifestyle. People killing each other over games. There’s more passion at a Wembley soccer match than in St Patrick’s Cathedral. Why? People are betting Marriage of heaven and hell: Harvey Keitel asthe Bad Lieutenant, confronted with all he wants to possess, opposite their entire lives, the future of their families, on 22 people on a field, and they don’t know any of them. What would make someone behave like that? The film was based on a song | wrote called ‘The Bad Lieutenant’ which has lines that go, “I push through the crowd because I’m the man in charge/Drinking my coffee, I’m talking with the sergeant” I think the common aspect is that we’re both the men in charge, me from the directorial point of view. The Lieutenant’s job is to tell other people what to do. Everybody missed the point and said he didn’t do any police work, but lieutenants don’t do police work. The rank of lieutenant is not just handed out to anybody; there are very few of them and they aren’t supervised, they're running the show. What he does is to go to the crime scene, check it out, make sure everybody’s working and think about what’s happening. How did you get from the song to the script? In 1982 a nun got raped in Spanish Harlem. All kinds of rewards were laid out, everybody was up in arms, and though I was outraged too, later I started thinking. What about the other ten women who got raped that day? How come no one’s putting out rewards for them? Bo Dietel, the cop who busted the guys that raped the nun, is in the movie; he plays the cop with the beard. Here’s the song: “I was born in the Bronx but raised on the street/Where they pack their badge and their dope right next to their heat/I got a wife and five kids and a house by the park/And a model in heat that I keep in the dark/’Cause I’m the Bad Lieutenant. “They call me up when the shit goes down|There’s blood on a dress, there’s a gun on the ground/I push through the crowd ‘cause I’m the man in charge/Drinking my coffee, I’m talking with the sergeant/’Cause I’m the Bad Lieutenant. “Up on Martin Luther King is where the shit gets copped/But it was 153rd where Willie got dropped/I pull up in my car, I'm a civilian to some/But the brothers know that the Man has comejI slip a $100 bill to my girl Kenny McCoy/To tell me Willie got popped by one of his boys/But the bag in the back’s about a key and a half/I said ‘T’ll put it in my trunk’ and we started to laugh/’Cause I’m the Bad Lieutenant. “A nun got raped behind Angel Dust and rum/And in Spanish Harlem that’s the ultimate bummer/The cops pissed, pulled them out of their slumber/If you want them perps you bet- ter take a number/But my boy walks to a differ- ent drummer/He says, ‘if the bitch ain’t dead, just fuck her’. That’s basically what I had. And a cheque for $40,000 from Ed Pressman. What possessed him to give me that money, I don’t know. Nicky St. John didn’t want to write it for reasons of his own. So Zoé Lund, star of Ms .45, came in, we worked together. She wrote it very quickly, at least the first draft - and we needed a draft in two weeks. What ideas did you bring to ‘Bad Lieutenant’ in terms of visual style? I don’t bring anything to a picture before we start. We have the story and we have the players and what the film ends up looking like comes together during its making. I knew we had to shoot it fast for financial reasons, we had a cer- tain kind of crew, it was shot by Kenny Kelsch, who shot The Driller Killer, and so we tried to keep the camera movement functional. I have my own aesthetic judgment but... So how do you define the director’s role in the film-making process? es The director’s specific job is to understand what shots he needs to tell the story and what the company as awholeand every individual mem- ber of the company is capable of doing. And he’s got to take it to another level, to keep rais- ing his own abilities and expectations. And what is the director’s role in defining the film’s style? He’s part of it. Hiring the crew is the biggest thing. These are home movies in a way - it’s not a bunch of strangers out there doing this. Where does your visual sense come from? God-given. Is it instinctive? God-given. You believe in God, Abel? Yup. Are you religious? No. I don’t know what that word means, in rela- tion to me. I believe in God. One of the film’s visual characteristics is the way certain images echo others - particularly the shot of the Lieutenant driving the two rapists to the bus station which echoes the first scene of him driving his kids to school. At that point those kids are his kids, once he made the commitment that makes him under- stand that these aren’t a couple of fucking spics to waste and get $50,000 - we're all God’s chil- dren. They became his children and then he came to some kind of realisation. What about the shot of a naked, stoned Keitel crying, arms outstretched — was that intended to foreshadow the Christ imagery? We almost didn’t use it because of that, but then again, who knows what he was doing - that’s not something you plan out. You’re not rehearsing that with the camera. That shot was a nine- or ten-minute piece, and we used only a little bit of it. It’s an obviously Christ-like pose, but I didn’t see it so much like that because I knew what he had to do to get to that point, so I was seeing it as something else. What went into shooting that scene? I just gave him his space, gave him his time. My shooting isn’t separate from whathe’s doing — in other words, he does what he does and we film it. I don’t come with some preconceived notion - how we work is organic. You work around the way he works. He’s in every shot, usually alone, so that becomes part of the style of the movie. There’s a lot more improvisation in ‘Bad Lieutenant’ than in your other films. Improvisation is a funny concept because the basis of any great improvisation is great mater- ial, a great script, to begin with. And then it’s very hard to say where it starts and stops. These scenes have been discussed and worked on and written together, so who knows where that improv begins or where there are real lines? Sometimes I'll say, it’s a great improv, and then I realise that Zoé wrote that line. But every scene is in some sense an improvisation, > SIGHT AND SOUND 21|2 <4 because even if you use the same words, the moment is constantly happening. How did you shoot the last shot of the film? We just staged the event. Hid the camera in a van, had it take place at rush hour, and waited to see what would happen. We had a few extras in there and I was standing saying to passers-by, “Hey man, somebody just got shot in that car across the street”. Then you’d see them walk into the frame. Why was the nun’s rape scene shot in a different style from the rest of the movie? Because Harvey’s not in it. But in any case, how do you film the rape of a nun, an event that really happened? If it wasn’t you getting raped, it’s unreal. On one level, what the Lieutenant says is true — “Just because she’s in a penguin suit, I'm supposed to get bent out of shape?” The line from the song is “If the bitch ain’t dead, just fuck her” And this is a guy who has daughters. “A nun got raped” - what is it about that sentence that means everyone remembers the event? Is this interest in confronting the audience with things that are considered unspeakable linked to your use of the Schooly-D song ‘Signifying Rapper’, which is a catalogue of obscenities? I think it’s a great song, and there’s something about the way it’s recorded that felt right for the film. There’s something very simple and very pure about it. It’s just the story of a neigh- bourhood bully. What was the intention of the scene where Keitel molests the two girls in the car? Well what does it come after? It comes after the scene where he’s seen a nun naked - and for a boy who grew up in a Catholic school, that’s a wild thing to walk in on. It’s like, how far down can a guy go? What does he do to get his rocks off? What does he need? What point is made by portraying women, both here and in ‘King of New York’, as sexual objects and props? That’s what women are to those people. The Bad Lieutenant doesn’t own Germaine Greer’s body of work to study in his car between cases. But your presentation pointedly withholds that point of view. Yes. I’m not going to make a value judgment about anybody. I don’t think that’s the role of the film-maker. How far as a film-maker are you prepared to go to make something real? It’s up to the actors, it’s up to the camera people - but how far in what direction? The heroin scene. Well, they put needles in their arms, it ain’t the Drugstore Cowboy routine, these guys are shoot- ing it up. But they’re not doing drugs. Why opt for real needles? Can the audience tell the difference? They definitely can. The act of putting a needle in your arm is like a rape, a self-rape - so I think you have to show it. There are two ways of reading ‘Ms .45’: one is that it’s about a person who gets carried away by violence... She’s getting into the power of the gun, yes. The other, more radical reading is that when she starts to kill non-threatening men, the film almost implicates all men in the oppression of women. That’s a very simplistic way of looking at the 22|2 SIGHT AND SOUND Blind ambition: is Christopher Walken the ‘King of New York’? movie. The dog deserved to die because it barked? There's a big difference between the look of ‘Ms .45’ or ‘Fear City’, where you rely more on cutting than on camera moves, and ‘King of New York’ or ‘China Girl’, with their more lyrical camera movement. The style of the first two is Jimmy Lemmo’s camera, whereas the last two are Bojan Bazelli’s. It was a different era back in the early 80s, a different style of film. Today it’s more about keeping the take going. Bojan has a more classical approach to cutting and coverage, as opposed to letting it happen. It all comes from economics, as Godard says - the economics of a film are the politics of a film. On China Girl, Bojan was deep into the shadow trip - in other words, if you can afford one extra, you see his shadow, now you have two. Then on King of New York, Bojan had a certain take on how he wanted to shoot New York, which for him is a foreign place. Had I wanted to go in another direction, he wouldn’t have shot the film. Did you set out to film Chris Walken and Victor Argo differently? It was thought out, in a non-specific way. Two such different faces, two such strong auras... you're lighting the character. To me, the King of New York is not Walken, but Argo. That’s my own private joke. When it comes down to it, when he’s got Walken in his sights and he’ll be the big hero, just the thought of an innocent person getting hit by a stray bullet prevents him from taking the first shot. He sacrifices his life for the hostage’s life. That’s a real hero. How did you come up with the ending? That came about on the spot. There were going to be different things that happened - cops and all kinds of wacky stuff - but then Walken said: it ends not with a bang, but a whimper. It was the opposite of something like ‘Scarface’. He wasn’t that kind of character, he let other people do his shooting for him. This guy wasn’t going to pull offsome kind of operatic stunt; he thought he was going to make it to the end and escape. He thought, there are 9 million people, I'll just slip through the cracks and be gone. What gets him in the end isn’t the cops, but the New York traffic. Yes, the environment, the city. Plus he got shot in the stomach, which doesn’t help. Going on to ‘China Girl’... That’s my favourite movie. I like the people, I like the locations, I like the way Bojan shot it. It’s much more poetic than anything else you've done. I like the idea of it - this feudal world, two neighbourhoods separated by one block. That almost does exist, and as much as it’s a fable, it’s also close to being a documentary. It sounds like a joke to say we were trying to stay close to the original material, but that aspect was in the original material too. Romeo and Juliet are having an affair, and meanwhile Genoa is being torn apart by the local hooligans. It’s a funny combination: you're making a gang movie and suddenly you've got two 15-year-olds running off madly in love. It’s not something I would have thought of myself, but it’s a classic story. We might not have got it together as ele- gantly as he did, but... Why was the scene where the Chinese gang member is stabbed in his apartment shot with such a wild, neon colour scheme? It really stands out from the look of the rest of the film. Because it becomes a surreal event, like the rape scene in Bad Lieutenant. A 15-year-old kid is going to be assassinated in hisown livingroom. It happens every day, but how could you imag- ine it? Just the thought of it is going to trigger all kinds of excess in your mind. That scene is a Nicky St. John special. I'll tell you a great story about censorship. One night I’m watching TV, big sports event, Friday night, eight o’clock: you have every kid in town watching. Then the baseball game gets rained off, so they put on China Girl. So I’m watching this film and I’m getting a cheque for this, so I’m happy as a lark, I’m sitting there happy as can be. Then as the movie is going on, I’m thinking, Jesus how are they going to edit that scene? The scene comes up, the guy walks over to the sleeping kid, taps him on the shoul- der, takes the knife and goes whoop}, right into him, with the sound. Then you cut to the guy fixing his cufflinks and the camera goes out the window. Now, who the fuck knows whose cut this was, but it was about 400 times more violent than what we had! We had it becoming Shakespearian/comedic - you put the knife in me, then all of a sudden, after a half hour and a lot of overacting, I pull the knife out of me and now I’m going to use the knife you tried to kill me with to kill you. All they had was whoop! and boom!. It was the most vicious, vio- lent, motherfucking scene imaginable. Have you been around violence much? A lot of personal violence, yes, more personal than physical. I tend to shy away from physical violence - I’m an artist, man, you know what I'm saying? But if that’s the case, how are you able to deal with _| violence with such conviction? You’ve got to keep your eyes open. As a film- maker I’m not coming from some philosophi- cal place, I’m trying to reflect what I see, mixed with my own imagination. I live in downtown Manhattan, an urban American environment. People are killed there every day, and you want to be able to say, this is what it’s like when someone gets shot. Inner conflict and conflict between people come together in scenes of violence. I don’t know what it is that makes people violent, that makes people want to hurt people, but I know that it’s out there and I know it’s inside me. And by expressing it and showing it, you’re attempt- ing to come to terms with it. I just can’t deny it. You cannot turn your back on reality in any way, shape or form. You can’t be bullied into thinking violence on screen promotes vio- lence... How many people felt like blowing somebody’s brains out and then went to see Taxi Driver and walked out of that theatre and felt the life spirit of the actors and film-makers and it was like an act of contrition for them? How many people are healed by seeing that? | Violence is so much a metaphor; we're not mak- ing documentaries. I don’t mean to sound like the Godard quotebook, but a gun going off in a movie is not a gun going off. So what's the violence in ‘King of New York’ a metaphor for? Blind ambition. One person's going to take over the drug trade in New York. How stupid is that? You can’t take it at face value. When Walken says, “A nickel bag gets sold in a park, I want half”, what does that mean about the guy? It’s the attitude that builds skyscrapers. Yet Frank White is a genuinely radical, contradictory figure - he forges a direct link between crime and social consciousness. ‘The Bodysnatchers’: Ferrara’s version of the classic ‘invasion of the Bodysnatchers | But the Robin Hood theme is an age-old story. | trying to make for years, has a similar political I wouldn't go that far. He’s a homicidal maniac. + ~ " Vie ’, where the antagonists are strangely passive Since the drug trade in New York is so huge, it’s almost the answer to a lot of problems. Is legal- ising drugs the answer? Or is that going to set off another chain of bigger problems? It’s not so much crack - one year it’s PCP, then it’s Angel Dust, there’s always a new word, but what is it really? Lack of opportunity for a major class of people. The film stresses extremes of wealth and poverty that most Americans seem oblivious to. Anybody that rich is a hood in one way or another - | think. It’s about the individual, what they do for someone else. Frank White is saying, I want this hospital in this neighbour- hood, I feel for these people regardless of the fact I have 80 zillion dollars - I almost need 80 zillion dollars to do something. The problem has to be confronted with capital. And where’s that capital going to derive from? The oppres- sion of the lower class. It’s almost a vicious circle in terms of helping people. The reality is that the drug trade money ends up in Swiss bank accounts, not recycled into the economy. If it’s in Swiss bank accounts, it’s not helping anybody - that’s a criminal act. If the desire for a black Mercedes with tinted windows or expensive leather jackets is what the game is about, then it’s a criminal act. But if it becomes about how do we help each other, how do we give opportunity to people who are born into this tough world, then it matters. Frank White is one individual who’s saying, hey, I can make a difference. From what I know, ‘Birds of Prey’, the film you've been subject. That’s something Nicky St. John wrote in 1979, which I’ve tried to get financed a few times, unsuccessfully. It’s a film about revolution int New York, present day, the shit hitting the fan. The United States is run by a corporation, and you're either working for the corporation or you're an enemy of the state. It’s about those on the outside, who have jumped ship because they feel the morality of corporate America is not in the best interests of everybody. The film starts at the point where arms are being taken up against the corporation, and then it turns into - a War movie. It sounds high budget. We can’t get any budget. It could be a big-budget movie - we could do a Die Hard number on it with a helicopter attacking the post office... and we could also do it for little - it’s the idea that matters. Do you ever get feedback from the underworld? How did they feel about ‘China Girl? It’s a lot more complex than whether you get it right or not right - who cares? It’s all about making money with these people, they don’t give a fuck about the truth. When we were doing China Girl back in 1987, the biggest heroes of the baddest Chinese gangsters were Don Johnson and Rod Stewart. Now you figure that one out. Do youknow any cops personally? I know some guys. On a day-to-day basis, we try to hang out with the other side of the law. What do cops think of the way they are portrayed in your films? These people think films are a get-off - who cares, it has nothing to do with real life. Films are a place to make money, just another racket. The cops I know are living real life, so what do they give a shit about movies? What is your take on ‘The Bodysnatchers’? The greatest thing about that movie is the con- cept of it - that is, that the antagonists are pas- sive. They're not eating you or shooting you, they’re just saying, go to sleep and when you wake up, the world’s going to be a better place. Plus it’s from an enemy you can’t even see, because it’s yourself. If ] had come up with that take myself, I probably would have dismissed it, except for the fact that I know it has affected a lot of people on a primal level over a long period of time. And the book is awesome, with an entirely different ending in which the aliens float off. The aliens’ basic attitude is, hey you guys are such pricks we're leaving, we're offer- ing you nirvana and you guys are so fucked up you can’t even accept it, so we'll go somewhere where we're appreciated. This movie is like a $20 million Warner Bros job and we had a lot more control in the editing room, but it’s a bit of the Cat Chaser thing in that we were trying to stay true to the original material. You once mentioned that you saw ‘The Bodysnatchers’ as being about Aids. The parallel of Aids in the 90s is a much more frightening thought than communism in the 50s. Obviously it’s a metaphor for something, unless you're going to take the thing as a docu- mentary and say, the Martians are here. Not that that would have any effect on anybody in this town - I said to Harvey, “Imagine if the Martians are here”. He said, “So what? I got my own problems”. ‘Bad Lieutenant’ opens on 19 February and is reviewed on page 40 of this issue SIGHT ANDSOUND 23]|2 Can the tensions between black African and Arab film-makers be resolved? By Manthia Diawara WHOSE AFRICAN CINEMA ISIT ANYWAY? The Carthage film festival (‘Journées Cinématographiques de Carthage’) - probably the most important event in the cal- endar of African cinema ~ has been run by the Tunisian government since its inception in 1966, and has often fallen hostage to changing political and ideological agendas, with black African film-makers in particular complaining that the event has become increasingly slanted to the concerns of rich Arab countries and the problems of Palestine. So for the 1992 festival, Ahmed Baha Eddine Attia, l'enfant terrible of Tunisian cinema and perhaps the most inven- tive producer of independent film in Africa, was appointed as director - a choice which ensured a more professional approach to the festival management and introduced some sur- prising new directions. Most of the films Attia has produced to date break with the traditional Arab and Maghre- bian-African themes of ideologies of develop- ment, authenticity of culture and Manichean aesthetics in favour of such subject matters as Arab women (without the veil) and their sexual pleasure (Ferid Boughedir’s Halfaouine and Nouri Bouzid’s The Golden Horseshoes, both 1988); homosexual desire and culture (Bouzid’s Man of Ashes, 1986, and Bezness, 1992); and self-reflexive representations of the threat of Islamic funda- mentalism. Attia’s dream is to create in Tunisia a cinema open to all themes, no matter how controversial — a situation he believes can arise only if African cinema is controlled by profes- sional directors, distributors and producers rather than by government officials. Mean- while, his business acumen enables him to recoup at least 75 per cent of the cost of his films before production through sales to dis- tributors and television companies. Attia’s role at Carthage is not an easy one. Not only does he have to pacify the many gov- ernment employees who lost their jobs in the restructuring process, but he also has to ensure that the French - represented this year by the Minister of Francophony, Mme Tasca, the director of the Centre National du Cinéma, Dominique Vallon, and Fredéric Mitterand, nephew of the President, as well as several civil servants - do not feel displaced by the new Arab money from the Gulf. Then there is the 24|2 SIGHTAND SOUND struggle to prevent the fundamentalists, who tend to wrap themselves in the national flag, from dominating events with criticism of the festival as not attentive enough to the concerns of the Arab world, while at the same time restoring the confidence of Africans south of the Sahara, who have felt increasingly margin- alised. (It is no secret that at the Panafrican Film Festival in Ouagadougou, Boughedir’s magnificent film Halfaouine was denied a prize in a message of rejection from black Africans to their Arab brothers and sisters.) Yet despite the need for a degree of political manipulation, the first noticeable difference between Carthage ’92 and the preceding festi- vals was in the free selection of the films in competition. In the past, as at Ouagadougou, both jury members and films have been chosen to satisfy political demands at the expense of cinematic excellence. This year, Attia’s selection committee, headed by Boughedir, screened all the films beforehand and Attia was careful to exclude from the official competition his own film Bezness, to avoid the criticism of serving local interests that has dogged Ouagadougou and Carthage in the past. But problems } ‘ie a i Entering a dialogue: Souleymane Cissé’s ‘Yeelen’ remained, in particular in the disproportionate size of the official French delegation in a festi- val that calls itself African and Arab. The Tanit d’Or was awarded to The Night (Mohamed Malas, Syria), a film about the loss of Palestine to Israel. In this epic told from the point of view of the vanquished, the young male narrator reconstructs the spaces and city of his past, and his memories of his father and mother, in a fragmented, Proustian manner. With its self-conscious cinematography, with shots from rooftops and through peepholes, its slow pace, and its reflexive style, echoing the cinema of Visconti, Tarkovsky and the liter- ary narratives of recent French film-makers, The Night was clearly the most challenging film in the festival. But its refusal to move beyond a fixed political discourse and involvement with Pan-Arab nationalism can make it tedious, in particular for black Africans, who understand the Palestinian people’s fight for a homeland in terms of a liberation movement akin to the struggle in South Africa or the black peoples’ struggle in the US, rather than as a religious battle. The complexity of The Night highlights the value of the simple style of films such as The Beach of Lost Children (Jilali Farhati, Morocco 1991), or populist Egyptian cinema such as Against the Government (Atef Taieb). The preoccupation of Arab film-makers with the Palestinian problem and with Islamic fun- damentalism was not matched by a representa- tion of contemporary ideologies in black African cinema, which seemed concerned again with the themes of tradition versus modernity (Samba Traore by Idrissa Ouedraogo; Toubab Bi, Senegal, by Moussa Touré; Gito, Burundi, by Léonce Ngabo) and of the public sphere in post-independence Africa (Quartier Mozart, Cameroon, by Jean-Pierre Bekolo; The Blue Eyes of Yonta, Guinea-Bissau, by Flora Gomes; Un certain matin, Burkina Faso, by Fanta Nacro). And there were formal differences, too, in that Arab films - Proud Beggars, Egypt, by Asma El Bakri; Ecrans de sable, Lebanon, by Randa Chahal Sabbag; Automne, Algeria, by Malik Lakhdar Hamina - favoured more reflexive narrative styles. For example, Mahmoud Ben Mahmoud and Fadel Jaibi’s Chichkhan (Tunisia, 1991) is a mod- Z < § Ed 3 8 2 pl Pm, me 2 Remembrance ofthings past: Ferid Boughedir’s ‘Halfaouine’, a loving recreation of childhood ern film noir about an aging man, Si Abbes, who gives an ‘antique diamond’ bracelet to a young woman, Kinza. But it turns out that the bracelet is not his to give and is wanted by a group of thugs which includes his illegitimate son and an old girlfriend from Italy. The film includes scenes of eroticised violence against older people, an old man’s sexual attraction toa young girl, and a hybrid use of Italian, French and Arabic. Chichkhan’s sophisticated use of film language to signify the hybrid culture of Tunisia and to echo the noir style of contempo- rary European and American detective fiction differentiates it from black African film-mak- ing, which on the whole does not enter into conversation with western cinema (exceptions include Un certain matin, Quartier Mozart, and Hyenas, Senegal, by Djibril Diop Mambety). My point here is not that the reflexive style is bet- ter than other narrative styles - such a claim would be as absurd as to say that Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man is better than War and Peace - but that whereas black African films empha- sise the authenticity of local cultures, Arab films seem to play an intermediary role between African and European cinema. Carthage ’92 could also be seen as marking the rise of auteur cinema in Africa and the end of films that speak for a country or continent. Attia himself has produced two of the most per- sonal film-makers in the Maghreb: Ferid Boughedir and Nouri Bouzid. Boughedir’s Hal- faouine can be read as a loving remembrance of the author’s childhood, with romantic scenes of the boy discovering women in Turkish bath houses, while Bouzid’s films are characterised as autobiographies in which the author settles his accounts with his father, the government, and contemporary ideologies. But it was Djibril Diop Mambety’s Hyenas - a screen adaptation of Friedrich Dtirrenmatt’s The Visit that tells the story of an old woman who returns to her vil- lage in the Sahel, after years of exile in the west, to take revenge on the man who betrayed her - which exemplifies the entry of an auteurist viewpoint into African cinema. On the surface, Hyenas is a post-modern alle- gory of African women’s revenge on the men who silence them, take their bodies and often, in one of the negative effects of polygamy, push them into prostitution. The film also parodies Africa’s dependency on western agencies such as the World Bank and International Monetary Fund, which force its people to conform to the ethics of western market systems at the expense of local social and cultural traditions. (On her return, in a chauffeured car with a ret- inue of young and beautiful women, the old woman buys up everything, including people’s sense of honour, eventually driving the towns- people to murder one of their own.) But Hyenas is also an auteur film. Mambety himself appears as the judge hand-picked by the woman and the death sentence he passes symbolises both the artist’s ambivalent atti- tude to money and the director's condem- nation of sexism in African cultures. The engagement of the director as auteur is rein- forced in a magnificent scene near the end of the film in which Mambety looks down from the top of a hill on the townspeople as they pre- pare to kill the condemned man. The whole scene is filmed from the point of view of Mam- bety, the omniscient narrator, and as the townspeople perform their traditional ritual to legitimise the murder of one of their own peo- ple for money, a close-up of Mambety’s face reveals his sarcastic smile. ‘Afro-pessimism’, a new term current in African cities, takes on a clearer meaning as one watches in such films the strangulation of youth and women at the hands of traditions led by men. In its use of a powerful, beautiful older black woman to advance the narrative, Hyenas also enters into a dialogue with films such as Yaaba (OQuedraogo), Yeelen (Souleymane Cissé), and Daughters of the Dust (Julie Dash). Hyenas did not run for an award, but Mam- bety was to Carthage ’92 what John Ford and Orson Welles were to Cannes. He was received like a star, surrounded by photographers and fans, dressed in an African shirt that was black on one side and white on the other, symbolis- ing his hopes for peace between Arab and black Africans. It was clear that Mambety and Attia belong to a new era of African and Arab cin- ema: one marked by quality films, stars, profes- sional producers and festival organisers. SIGHT ANDSOUND 25|2 Is the BBC confused about its responsibilities, wanting to be both public service and commercial player? By Nicholas Garnham “Broadcasting is at the heart of British society. The structure and composition of the broadcasting industry, the purpose and motivation of broadcasters, and the pro- grammes and services they offer are vital fac- tors in reflecting and shaping that society”. As the BBC rightly points out in Extending Choice, its response to the recent government Green Paper on the corporation's future, broad- casting is of central importance to Britain’s cul- ture and polity. Not only does broadcasting, and especially television, dominate our cul- tural landscape in its own right, consuming an astonishing two-thirds of our leisure time, but it also serves as the access point to other cul- tural realms - drama, literature, the visual arts and music - while at the same time providing the preferred source of the information and debate upon which our citizenship depends. What the government and the BBC are now asking themselves and us - as viewers, listen- ers, licence-fee payers and voters — is whether there is still a need for public service broadcast- ing within the broadcasting spectrum, and if so, what role it should play and what institu- tional form it should take. Public service broad- casting is as much an ideal or aspiration as an 26|2 SIGHT ANDSOUND actual historical practice, and one of the key questions in Britain since broadcasting’s birth has been how to disentangle the potentials of public service broadcasting from the practice of the BBC itself. While reading Extending Choice, one could be forgiven for forgetting that it is the future of public service broadcasting, not of the BBC, that should be at the centre of the current debate. The essence of public service broadcasting is the provision, to all citizens on equal terms and as an enabling condition of such citizenship, of a site for the cultural expression and exchange through which social identities are formed, and of access to the information and debate upon which democratic politics is founded. In order to fulfil this role, the site should be as free as possible from the distorting effects of the exercise of economic or state power. In more practical terms, public service broadcasting can be defined by reference to its programming policy, funding and system of accountability. First, it must provide to the widest possible range of audiences or taste publics. Crucially, the purpose of its pro- grammes is to meet the needs of members of the public rather than of advertisers, share- holders or politicians. Where funding is con- cerned, it is neither advertising- nor subscrip- tion-financed, and is not pursued for profit. And finally, since such broadcasting is not accountable through the market and is using publicly provided resources, it requires some ‘political’ form of governance to ensure its res- ponsibility to the public it supposedly serves. The argument against any continuing role for public service broadcasting is clear and familiar, and is rehearsed by both the govern- ment and the BBC in their recent publications. First, it is argued that public service broadcast- ing is the historical product of scarcity. With a limited number of available channels, using the scarce public resource of the radio spec- trum, it was proper for governments to ensure that a general programme was broadcast, reaching and appealing to all citizens and paid for by a compulsory licence fee. Now, it is argued, technological development will by the end of the decade make available numerous alternative, commercially funded channels. This makes available to anyone who wants it enough programme choice, and by reducing licence fee-funded broadcasting to a small audi- ence share makes the licence fee as a general tax on all viewers politically unsustainable. A further criticism of thé concept of public service broadcasting holds that the idea that an organisation such. as the, BBC can claim to speak for and to a national culture fails to take account of the post-modern fragmentation of contemporary British society. The current exchange is but the climactic phase of a debate with a long history. The prob- lems posed to the BBC’s position by what it refers to as “the fragmentation of society into discrete social, economic, racial and religious groups” became glaringly apparent as long ago as the late 60s and fuelled the great debate on access and accountability that preceded and fed into the Annan Committee report of 1977. This represented the first serious challenge to the BBC’s hegemony. The BBC managed to resist that challenge, which it feared, loathed and deeply misunderstood. The chance to reform public service broadcasting and to save it from the institutional embrace of the BBC was thus lost for nearly two decades, and the search for a more responsive style of public service broad- casting deflected on to Channel 4 and the cre- ation of the so-called ‘Independent’ sector. In the 80s, public service broadcasting throughout western Europe faced a different set of challenges, from market forces. Techno- logical expansion appeared to remove the justification of public service broadcasting as a necessary response to a scarcity of wave- lengths, while at the same time public funding was undermined by the general shift away from the social-democratic, welfare-state model of public service provision towards pri- vatisation and competitive market provision within a regulatory framework. In Britain, under successive Thatcher governments, this tide ran with particular force. Viewed in this light, the BBC seemed a grotesque, inefficient, and, what was worse, left-leaning anomaly: it was definitely not ‘one of us’. Let it be financed by advertising and then be privatised, the Adam Smith Institute and other Thatcherite agencies agreed. The left, meanwhile, found it difficult to mobilise in the corporation’s defence. It had argued throughout the 70s that the BBC was culturally elitist and, behind a smokescreen of impartiality, biased against progressive politi- cal forces. So the aspirations of the left to cultural pluralism and social and political lib- ertarianism were enshrined in the creation of Channel 4, ironically the first act of broadcast- ing policy of the Thatcher government. And yet against all the odds, the BBC survived. Indeed, because the main brunt of the new competitive forces was borne by commercial television, the BBC arguably enters the 90s in a stronger posi- tion than it entered the 80s. What is striking about the recent govern- ment Green Paper is how much of a change in the political climate it signals. No doubt this can be explained in part by the recognition on all sides of the mess made of the reform of commercial broadcasting and how politically embarrassing the reverberations of those changes could still turn out to be. Thus it seems clear that the government seems to want as lit- tle change as possible in the role, status and funding of the BBC. Ironically, those changes that are suggested - for instance, a Public Ser- vice Broadcasting Council to replace the gover- nors, or greater accountability to Parliament and the public through the use of performance indicators - echo the suggestions of the radical left fringe in the 70s, enshrined now as Conser- vative government policy. Indeed, the BBC now appears more critical of its traditions and more fearful for the future than the government itself, and the corpora- tion’s response is significantly more Thatcherite than the Green Paper. The result is that Extend- ing Choice is an uneasy mix of at least three registers of discourse. There are the value-for- money, efficiency- and market-oriented argu- ments of the Thatcher years, which give us Producer Choice, the BBC as a major player on the international programme market, and the entrepreneurial development of new, commer- cial sources of income, such as a satellite and cable television news channel. Then there is the new-look, public service-in-the-90s BBC, which will provide distinctive, high-quality British culture responsive to the regional, ethnic and social diversity of contemporary Britain. And finally there is the voice of the old Reithian BBC, of nation-talking-peace-unto- nation via the World Service, of educational broadcasting, and of the inestimable advan- tages of the BBC doing everything. The undigested heritage of the Thatcher years leads, in particular, to the redefinition and impoverishment of the concept of public service as merely the negative reflection of the market. In the BBC’s words, it is to focus on “performing a set of clearly defined roles that best complement the enlarged commercial sec- tor”. Underlying this view is a conception of broadcasting as merely offering a series of pro- gramme choices to consumers. From this posi- tion, the problem of public service broadcast- ing is then defined as one of market share. It is argued that faced with massively extended competition, the BBC will see its audience share decline towards 20 per cent in the early 2000s and that by the end of the 90s the licence fee will sink as a proportion of broadcast-indus- try revenue to between 25 and 30 per cent. Why the BBC should choose to fight on this ground is difficult to understand, as it is audi- ence reach rather than audience share that is cru- cial to the concept of public service. In a multi-channel environment, everyone's share is likely to drop, while the price per viewing minute is likely to rise, making the licence fee even better value than at present. Such an argu- ment also assumes that the licence fee will remain at the same level in real terms - a mat- ter for political decision and by no means inevitable. To argue the public service case in audience-share terms is like suggesting that presidential elections in the US should be abol- ished because voter participation has dropped below 30 per cent. So the BBC argues that its “overriding public purpose is to extend choice by guaranteeing access for everyone in the country to program- ming services that are of unusually high qual- ity and that are, or might be, at risk in the purely commercially funded sector of the mar- ket”. It then attempts to put flesh on these bones by identifying four programming roles: “a) The provision of the comprehensive, in- depth and impartial news and information cov- erage across a range of broadcasting outlets that is needed to support a fair and informed debate. “b) Supporting and stimulating the develop- ment and expression of British culture and entertainment. “c) Guaranteeing the provision of program- ming and services that create opportunities for education. “d) Stimulating the communication of cul- ture and ideas between Britain and abroad”. It then goes on to state that it “should pur- sue its primary roles through the distinctive- ness and quality of its own output; through the way that it structures its programme sched- ules; through the standards that it sets for itself and for the whole industry”. At first sight, this does indeed appear to define the proper role for public service broad- casting. In particular, it makes the crucial point that a public service must be defined in terms of its whole schedule. This is crucial because there are now those stalking the land, Melvyn Bragg opportunistically to the fore, who argue that the BBC should be replaced by a Public Ser- vice Broadcasting Council which would distrib- ute licence-fee finance to any ‘public service’ programme, wherever it was broadcast. Such a council was first proposed in 1986 by the Peacock Committee. The idea was to create, in effect, an Arts Council of the Air: a deeply elit- ist concept and way of financing the cultural tastes of its advocates in the name of public ser- vice. But the BBC gives away too much to its enemies by its use of the weasel words “distinc- tiveness and quality” and by proposing that it withdraw from areas in which it is no longer able to make an original contribution. The BBC cannot, it seems, have it both ways. Either public service is distinguished by the Public service men: should the ghost of Lord Reith, top, haunt the present director general, John Birt, above? way it schedules programmes to appeal to the widest range of interests and publics during the available viewing and listening time and by its mode of address - talking to intelligent citi- zens rather than pandering to manipulable consumers - in which case there are no pro- gramme types which are by definition outside its remit. Or, the corporation means to with- draw into a cultural and intellectual ghetto within which quality is defined in elitist, sepa- ratist or exclusionary terms. This clearly raises the question of by whom and according to which criteria the terms of the debate and para- meters of British culture are to be defined. Equally seriously, the new proposal could be seen simply as the BBC up to its old trick of defining public service as whatever it chooses to do and as continuing, despite its professions of a more circumscribed role, its old imperial ways. It is difficult to avoid, when reading Extending Choice, two questions: isn’t this what they are supposed to have been doing all along, and what exactly are they proposing to give up — apart from the Top 40 on Radio 1 and local radio - in return for moving into a cable- and satellite-delivered continuous television news service and expanded international televi- > SIGHT AND SOUND 27|2 z 5 ts] 5 g z Fa] = — SUE ADLER <4 sion services? Crucially, if planning is based on an assumption of a frozen real licence fee at best, or at worst a steadily shrinking one, how are these aspirations to be paid for? Everyone in the industry knows that any broadcaster would love to be able to deliver high-quality news and current affairs plus dis- tinctive British programming without the aid of cheap imports. But the circle cannot be squared economically and the competition for the best programme-making talent is intense. The BBC argues that the extra money can be found from efficiency savings and from the more aggressive commercial exploitation of its programmes through foreign sales and the granting of secondary rights to commercial broadcasters, on the model of UK Gold. There are two problems here. First, this extra income is likely to remain marginal: tens of millions of pounds against a licence-fee income of £1,400 million. Second, the effects of these develop- ments are likely to undercut the central, public service purpose of the corporation. At the cen- tre of the BBC’s position is a Thatcherite dis- course of market efficiency - and one senses that this is now more central to the thinking of the BBC’s senior management and governors than it is to the government itself. Of course, the efficient and accountable use of public money is important. But this does not mean accepting, as does Extending Choice, the dubious argument that the BBC has been suffering from major inefficiencies (as opposed to some administrative fat) that can be cured by embracing enthusiastically what it calls “a new structural model” of the industry, “charac- terised by increasing flexibility of employment practices and conditions, use of freelance and contracted staff, and mobility” - in particular, increased use of independent producers and the introduction of an internal market in the form of Producer Choice. Whatever the financial saving, the cost of such a move has already produced a serious erosion of morale among the very creative tal- ent needed to fulfil the BBC’s bright new pur- poses, coupled with a shift of decision-making power, in a very un-public service direction away from creative programme-makers and towards commissioning editors and cost accountants. If turning programme produc- tion over to the pressures of the crudest market forces - which is the real state of the UK televi- sion production industry - is such a good 28|2 SIGHT ANDSOUND thing, why bother with the BBC at all, except possibly as publisher-broadcaster? This may indeed be the hidden agenda; it is certainly likely to be the end result of the dynamic set in motion by the independent quota and Producer Choice. At that point, all producers will have to dance to the tune of the international programme market. The BBC will be just one purchaser, and possibly an impover- ished one at that. The possibility of building a creative tradition, of training and nursing tal- ent, of experiment, of establishing fruitful links with and roots in a British culture more widely defined than Soho and the Groucho Club will have been irrevocably destroyed. But market criteria are seen as the way to discipline broadcasters, to ensure they are accountable. The problem of accountability has haunted public service broadcasting since its birth. If one accepts the ideal of public ser- vice as free of both commercial and direct state control, then one is faced by the fundamental question posed by the Beveridge Committee in 1949: “What alternatives are there to competi- tion and to Parliamentary control as a means of preventing broadcasting from falling into the hands of an uncontrolled bureaucracy?” The Green Paper appears implicitly to rule out com- mercial competition, accepting that, except possibly at the margins, public service broad- casting will continue to be funded largely by the licence fee or other public funding. How, then, is the use of that money to be accounted for and how are the programming policies to be defined, implemented and monitored? It is clear from Extending Choice that the BBC is neither willing nor able to address this ques- tion seriously. First, because it continues to equate the future of public service broadcast- ing with its own survival as a single, integrated institution. Second, as the way Extending Choice was prepared and presented shows, because it still doesn’t understand what accountability to a diverse culture and polity might mean. The preparation of Extending Choice was based on the assumption that 100 or so middle and senior managers and their consultants can decide in secret and without any wider consultation what is best for the future of public service broadcasting in Britain. And the way it is pre- sented assumes that it is the job of the gover- nors to defend the institutional interests of the BBC rather than to represent the wider public interest. The BBC’s Board of Governors was intended at its inception to be a proper regula- tory body, quite separate from management, with their own research capabilities and chan- nels of communication with the public - a model consciously aborted by Reith that has never been reconstructed, despite moves by the Beveridge and Annan Committees in that direc- tion. That the BBC can now suggest a clearer separation of the roles of the governors and Board of Management shows that even it has an inlding that something needs to be done. On the issue of accountability, the Green Paper marks a clear advance on the position adopted by the BBC. It recognises that “to many, the present arrangements for account- ability seem haphazard and incoherent” It sug- gests a clearer distinction “between the actions of ministers, for which they would always be answerable, and the activities of the BBC” and goes on to suggest that “there could be arrange- ments for regular, but not continuous, Parlia- mentary examination of the BBC’s program- ming and financial objectives and how far it can meet them, so calling Ministers and the BBC to account for their different responsibili- ties. In this way, parliament, representing the public, could ensure that the public through- out the UK were getting what they wanted from the BBC at a price they could afford”. All this seems eminently sensible, but it doesn’t get to the heart of the problem because it is working within the existing model, in which the BBC is a unitary institution and the governors are the BBC. Which is why the pro- posal fora Public Service Broadcasting Council (PSBC) is so important. The Green Paper hovers between two versions of this proposal: in one, the PSBC would, in effect, simply be the inde- pendent Board of Governors regulating the BBC; in the second, it would receive all licence- fee income and “any other sources of finance” (for instance the current Foreign Office grant for overseas broadcasting) and distribute this money to public service broadcasting activities which it would also regulate. One of the dan- gers of this model, as we have already seen, is that it can be read as opening the way to the funding of ‘public service’ programmes wher- ever broadcast, and would thus be, in David Mellor’s words, “a stake to the heart of the BBC”, by diverting already insufficient licence-fee income away from the corporation to commer- cial broadcasters. On the other hand, if pub- lic service broadcasting services are defined clearly as those financed exclusively from pub- licly provided funds, thus ending the current damaging and growing confusion at the heart of the BBC’s activities between its public service and commercial activities, then the second PSBC model has much to commend it. It allows us to think of splitting the BBC’s various activi- ties, for instance radio from television and overseas from home broadcasting. It allows greater transparency of finance, for instance in the division between radio and television funding, and a clear institutional separation between broadcasting management and regu- lation. This would in turn make possible other models of public service broadcasting manage- ment, for instance the franchising of service provision or the creation of a network of auto- nomous regional stations. That such a relation- ship between broadcaster and regulator is possible is demonstrated by the old IBA. I have no doubt that the current public ser- vice status quo can be preserved for another decade at least and that political forces are mov- ing us in that direction. But to accept the BBC’s current prospectus will once again mean to put off solving the problem of accountability, while public service broadcasting is under- mined from within by the forces of the market. I believe we can do better than that, and that the Green Paper gives us a glimpse of the possi- bility of redesigning a public service broadcast- ing system more suited to our polity and culture. Let us not throw it away, as we did at the time of Annan, out of nostalgia or fear. Obituaries Bob Baker 1991 The death in March of silent superstar Vilma Banky did not become public knowl- edge until over a year later; and in Decem- ber: Jack Laird, prolific television writer, producer, notably of the series Night Gallery; Jack Otterson, art director at Universal (Flame of New Orleans, Arabian Nights); Curt Bois, character actor in Hollywood (Casa- blanca) and Germany (Wings of Desire). @ January Mike J. Frankovich, executive at Columbia; Ginette Leclerc, skilled portrayer of hookers, hussies and fallen women gen- erally (La Femme du boulanger, Le Corbeau); Dame Judith Anderson; Andrew Marton, who directed the exciting bits of other people’s movies (Ben-Hur, 55 Days at Peking) and the dull entireties of his own; Bill Naughton, playwright (Alfie, The Family Way); Herbert G. Luft, columnist and critic, expert on German cinema; Freddie Bartholomew, paradigm of well-scrubbed boyhood in pre- war Hollywood (David Copperfield, Captains Courageous); Ken Darby, top musical ar- ranger/conductor; José Ferrer. @ February Leon Clore, producer (Every Day Except Christmas, The French Lieutenant's Woman); Jack Kinney, Disney cartoon direc- tor, responsible for much of the Goofy series; Meade Roberts, scriptwriter (The Fugi- tive Kind, The Stripper); Ray Danton, whose reptilian good looks were used to best effect in Boetticher’s The Rise and Fall of Legs Dia- mond; Robert W. Russell, writer specialising in comedy (The More the Merrier, Come Septem- ber); Angelique Pettyjohn, starlet of the early 70s turned hardcore-porn performer; Tadeusz Lomnicki, before Cybulski, the emblem of post-war Polish youth (5 Boys of Barska Street, A Generation). Doreen Montgomery (born 12 April 1913) Scriptwriters often get a raw deal from his- torians, unless they are the author of the original text, or engaged in quality produc- tions. The status of the jobbing scriptwriter, particularly if she is female, is usually mini- mal. And any attempts to rewrite the tradi- tional canon are fraught with difficulties, due to a paucity of evidence. The death of Doreen Montgomery highlights these problems with some urgency. Montgomery had a long and varied career in British media. Born in 1913 and educated in Scotland, she submitted mater- ial to ABPC in the late 30s, where her scripts caught the eye of Walter Mycroft, who put her under contract. She adapted novels for reasonably successful films (At the Villa Rose, Just William), but it was her move to Gains- borough in 1942 which allowed her to develop in a different way. Gainsborough was the only studio to provide a creative space for women writers, and Montgomery developed a strong working relationship with Margaret Kennedy and Aimée Stuart as well as collaborating closely with Leslie Arliss and R.J.Minney, who made a profitable cycle of melodramas for female audiences. Montgomery joined this group in founding the Screenwriters’ Association, which succeeded in wresting better condi- tions from the studios. As Montgomery persevered at Gainsbor- ough, she was given increasing control over scripts, and on The Man in Grey (1943), Fanny by Gaslight (1944) and Love Story (1944) she has progressively major credits. All her scripts were based on novels by other writ- ers, and she adapted them in interesting ways. All were given a firmer middle-class base; all had a greater sense of contempo- rary relevance; all raised the emotional temperature of the originals, foreground- ing the nuancing of feelings. In Mont- gomery’s scripts, characters are judged on their emotional literacy. She scripted only one film at Gainsborough without the benefit of a novelist, Victory Wedding, dir- ected by Jessie Matthews. After the war, Montgomery worked free- lance and experienced the chaos which fol- lowed the Boxes’ attempts to reform script- ing practices. Her speciality of emotional flair combined with wry control was no longer fashionable, though she scripted one extraordinary film, While I Live (known popularly as The Dream of Olwen). Written with a ferocious intensity, this dealt with incestuous love between sisters, somnam- bulism, necrophilia, the sensual pleasures of music, and reincarnation by dint of desire. Montgomery’s interest in spiritual- ism doubtless helped her to sharpen the vapid original. British film culture in the 50s was largely preoccupied with comedy, which was not Montgomery’s metier. She worked on lack- lustre crime projects such as The Narrowing Circle (1956) before moving into television. Her proclivity for tight narrative construc- tion, melodramatic flavour and emotional repression and release worked well on the small screen. Montgomery played a major role in the adaptation of Cronin’s Dr Finlay’s Casebook, in which she gave greater weight to the female protagonist and greater self- awareness to the eponymous hero. She scripted key episodes of The Avengers, and was the creator of Cathy Gale. This charac- ter, played first by Honor Blackman, became a 60s icon, in whom sexual charisma, physi- cal strength and verbal wisecracks made a potent combination. Montgomery’s achievements were recog- nised by the Writers’ Guild in 1965, when she was awarded the Bronze plaque for her contribution to television series. Little for- mal written work remains: a play, a book on spiritualism, a few fugitive articles in trade journals. But the real artistic work rests in the scripts; and although film and tele- vision are collaborative activities, Mont- gomery clearly played a key role in the pro- duction of well-crafted texts in which female characters are presented as expres- sive and feisty. Sue Harper @ March Marie Déa, ingenue of the 40s, impressive in Les Visiteurs du soir and as the wife of Orphée; Robert Clatworthy, art direc- tor (Psycho, Ship of Fools); Sandy Dennis, skit- tish and neurotic in Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?, Come back to the 5 & Dime Jimmy Dean, Jimmy Dean; Samuel Marx, story editor at MGM, latterly Hollywood anecdotalist; Robert Beatty, breezy Canadian player of many a British B; Art Babbitt, animator who ‘The Avengers’, scripted by Doreen Montgomery ‘Enfant sauvage’, shot by Nestor Almendros Goofy, directed by Jack Kinney made the mushrooms dance in Fantasia; Pare Lorentz, documentarist and film critic; 2 Ben Arbeid, producer (The Hireling, Eagle's Wing); Laslo Benedek, director of oddly 3 assorted projects (Death of a Salesman, Namu 2 the Killer Whale); Richard Brooks; Max Catto, 4 aka Simon Kent, much-filmed novelist 2 (Trapeze, 7 Thieves); Jean Poiret, comic actor (Chabrol’s Inspecteur Lavardin) and writer (La Cage aux folles); Helen Deutsch, MGM scriptwriter (National Velvet, The 7th Cross); Grace Stafford, wife of Walter Lantz, the voice of his superstar Woody Woodpecker; Georges Delerue, lyrical composer for Truf- faut (Tirez sur le pianiste, Jules et Jim) and many others; John Ireland, tough guy; Leueen McGrath, actress (Edward My Son) and writer in collaboration with husband George S. Kaufman (Silk Stockings); Wendell Mayes, scriptwriter for Wilder, Preminger, Mulli- gan; Paul Henreid; Luigi De Laurentiis, brother of Dino, producer in his own right. Nestor Almendros (born 30 October 1930) Because of Days of Heaven (1978), which won him an Oscar for Best Photography, the first images one would associate with Nestor Almendros are of wheatfields, cattle herds, river crossings and steam trains — a timeless American farmland on the verge of par- adise. Certainly Almendros could portray lazy afternoons in idyllic surroundings with incontestable skill - and was required to do so at length for The Blue Lagoon in 1980 (“I had to skirt bad taste without succumb- ing to it”) - but it would be unjust to classify him primarily as a landscape artist. In fact, his 30-year career in international cinema spanned as extraordinary a variety of pro- jects as any leading cameraman could wish for, from the Corman-produced Wild Racers (1967) to a documentary about Idi Amin (1974), or from a Bogdanovich tribute to Charlie Chaplin (1973) to the searing Sophie's Choice (1982) and the Kim Basinger comedy Nadine (1987). Spanish-born, Almendros was a member of the Barcelona film society in his teens and, on joining his father in Cuba in 1948, formed Havana's first film club. Determined to become a director, he spent most of the Batista years in Rome and New York, writing for Film Culture and making “pretentious avant-garde short films that are not worth mentioning”, until the arrival of Castro tempted him back to Cuba for a year of gov- ernment-financed documentary produc- tion. By 1961 he was in exile once more, teaching Spanish in Paris and talking cinéma verité at the Cinématheque. For three years he didn’t touch a camera. But he met Barbet Schroeder and Eric Rohmer, and when in 1964 they had a row with their cameraman for Paris vu par.., they tried Almendros instead. A single day’s work was enough to confirm that he knew what he was doing. That the Almendros ‘look’ became identified with the nouvelle vague is a myth he firmly discredited: it was 1966 before his first feature assignment, Rohmer’s La Collec- tionneuse, and another three years before he first worked with Truffaut, on [Enfant sauvage. In the decade before he was recruited to Days of Heaven, Almendros > IGNS (3) SIGHT AND SOUND 29|2 <4 divided his life between the rigours of Rohmer (with whom he was to make a total of seven films), the inventive nostalgia of Truffaut (nine), and the wholly unpre- dictable excursions of Schroeder (six), a ‘New. Wave’ producer more by accident of timing than by manifesto, who was as inquisitive about sadomasochism (Maitresse, 1975) as he was about apes (Koko the Talking Gorilla, 1977). The learning process worked both ways: to see Rohmer’s latest, A Winter's Tale, or Schroeder’s Single White Female (photo- graphed by Luciano Tovoli, an old friend from the Centro Sperimentale in Rome) is to see the Almendros touch discreetly repro- duced in every frame. Almendros was a spe- cialist in the use of natural light, reflected and diffused. What Truffaut wanted from him for LEnfant sauvage was the mono- chrome brilliance of silent cinema, as per- fected by Griffith and Stiller, and it was this indirect illumination of faces and costumes that created an authentic sense of period. When, on the strength of his work with Truffaut, Almendros teamed up with Ter- rence Malick for Days of Heaven, it was - as he points out in his autobiography, A Man with aCamera — not so much to imitate the Amer- ican exteriors of Andrew Wyeth as to recon- struct the interiors of Vermeer, the light striking the richly furnished rooms side- ways through windows and doorways. Ironically, the sunlit settings of Le Genou de Claire, unmatched for sheer languor by any of Rohmer’s later work, were based on Gauguin, while the New York apartments of Kramer vs Kramer (1979), light years away, find Mery] Streep profiled in lamplight like a figure from Piero della Francesca - which is precisely where director Robert Benton and Almendros had found the (implicitly parodic) image they wanted. It is in Kramer vs Kramer, too, that one finds the lie to any theory that Almendros, discovering the Panaglide during Days of Heaven, kept his camera floating restlessly from then on: the film is almost entirely static, and when the camera moves, it is emphatically emotional in purpose. Although the upheavals of Almendros’ early years were never forgot- ten (in the 80s he made Improper Conduct and Nobody Listened, two controversial documen- taries about Cuba), he will have the good fortune to be remembered for some of the most disciplined and harmonious visual compositions to have graced the movies since the heyday of silent cinema. Philip Strick Jack Arnold (born 14 October 1916) Two of the most instantly recognisable images of 50s cinema are from films directed by Jack Arnold: the Gill Man from The Creature from the Black Lagoon, advancing to blaring horns with 3D claws outstretched, and Jerry Lee Lewis in High School Confidential, pounding rock 'n’ roll in the back of a flatbed truck. Forever remembered for his Universal-Inter- national science fiction/monster movies, Arnold’s other achievements include the Peter Sellers comedy, The Mouse that Roared, stranded somewhere between Passport to Pimlico and Dr Strangelove; the underrated blaxploitation detective item Black Eye; a fine Audie Murphy Western (No Name on the Bullet); a rare melodrama with Orson Welles (Man in the Shadow); crime movies (Outside the Law); even a sex film (The Bunny Caper). His only real demerits are a clutch of glossily humourless 60s comedies (Bachelor in Par- 30|2 SIGHT AND SOUND ‘The Creature from the Black Lagoon’, by Jack Arnold adise, Hello Down There), several with a flagging Bob Hope. High School Confidential’s mix of rebel sleaze (Russ Tamblyn as a high school trouble-maker with a lascivious ‘aunt’ played by Mamie Van Doren) and campy moral tone (Russ turns out to be an undercover narco cop out to nail drug pusher Jackie Coogan) deserves a place in the memory, especially for its outrageously hip teen talk (“tomorrow is a drag, man, tomorrow is a king-size bust”), but it is the run of science-fiction films that truly distin- guishes Arnold’s career from many another contract director's. Proof that he was indeed the creative force behind such movies as The Creature from the Black Lagoon, It Came from Outer Space, Tarantula and The Incredible Shrinking Man can be gained from a viewing of The Land Unknown or The Mole People, made by exactly the same U-I unit under producer William Alland, but with Virgil Vogel holding the megaphone. Even Arnold’s worst, the pulpily enjoyable Monster on the Campus, is better than most 50s creature features, and his best repay many viewings on late- night television or stereoscopic re-issues. Arnold’s movies often contain oddly complicated monsters: the xenomorphs of It Came from Outer Space are not invaders, but are using the Earth as a galactic lay-by while repairing a broken-down UFO; mad scientist Leo G. Carroll of Tarantula is a decent man suffering from a bizarre dis- torting disease; the glowing brain of The Space Children is one of a wave of anti- nuclear protestors from beyond the stars. Also characteristic are his eerily-evoked and unusual locations (the deserts of Tarantula and It Came from Outer Space; the jungle of The Creature from the Black Lagoon; the bombed-out alien world of the uncredited sequences he directed for This Island Earth; the beach of TheSpace Children; the suburban house turned dangerous adventure play- ground in The Incredible Shrinking Man) and strikingly conceived and seductive shock Moments (the erotic sub-aqua dance between the Gill Man and a pneumatically swimsuited lady scientist; the Shrinking Man’s duel with a malicious spider). Taken along with the oddly effective use of stiff but archetypal 50s leading men such as Richard Carlson, John Agar, Richard Den- ning and Grant Williams, partnered by such instant icons of torpedo-breasted, vac- uum-cleaner-advert sexuality as Mara Cor- day, Barbara Rush, Lori Nelson and Julia Adams, these attributes mean that when you think of a 50s sci-fi film, you imagine an identikit of Arnold’s movies. Kim Newman @ April Aaga, celebrated Hindi comedian, with allegedly 500 credits to his name; Karl Tunberg, writer of Orchestra Wives, the Wyler Ben-Hur, David Miller, director who made his biggest impact with Lonely Are the Brave; Neville Brand, thick-set thug, leader of the Riot in Cell Block 11; Julian Amyes, director for small screen and occasionally for big (A Hill in Korea); Frankie Howerd; Benny Hill; Satya- jit Ray; Ken Morgan, television lighting cameraman (Licking Hitler, Prime Suspect); Mae Clarke, hapless heroine of the first Waterloo Bridge, recipient of Cagney’s grape- fruit in The Public Enemy. @ May George Murphy, light comedian turned US senator; Jean-Claude Pascal, jeune premier of the 50s (Le Rideau cramoisi, Le Grand Jeu); Marlene Dietrich; John Lund, blonde semi-star at post-war Paramount (Foreign Affair, No Man of Her Own); George Hurrell, leading Hollywood still photographer; Giuliani G. De Negri, producer, notably for the Taviani brothers; Edmund Beloin, gag writer for Jack Benny, Bob Hope, Jerry Lewis; Marisa Mell, 60s purveyor of glam- our across the European Community (French Dressing, Casanova 70); Franco Rossellini, son of Renzo, nephew of Roberto, co-producer of the Gore Vidal Caligula. @ June Philip Dunne, top writer at Fox (How Green Was My Valley, The Robe), later director; Robert Morley; Leon Griffiths, writer for cinema and television, expert on criminal- ity, comic (Minder) or dramatic (The Squeeze); Serge Daney, critic, former editor of Cahiers du cinéma; Carlos d’Alessio, composer (India Song, Delicatessen); Frederic J. Rinaldo, com- edy writer in tandem with Robert Lees for Olsen & Johnson, Abbott & Costello; Allan Jones, MGM's house tenor. Juris Podnieks (born 15 December 1950) “With a camera, I’m another person, with a camera I can do anything...” Juris Podnieks was only 15 when he first went to work at the Riga Film Studios. He later graduated from the cinematography faculty of VGIK, the State Cinema Institute in Moscow, and soon earned himself a national reputation as a cameraman. In 1982 he directed his first film, Constellation of Riflemen, about the 300 disillusioned survivors of those Latvian troops —- his grandfather among them - who came to the defence of the revolution in July 1918. International success came with Is It Easy To Be Young? (1987), a documentary that begins with footage shot by chance at a rock concert outside Riga. When he discovered that a group of young people had been arrested after the concert for damaging a train compartment, Podnieks embarked on the series of interviews that make up the film. Is It EasyTo Be Young? was a sensation in the Soviet Union: here, at last, were young people - sensible, articulate, unfrightening young people - speaking their own words about their own hopes and fears. By linger- ing on individual faces and listening to individual voices, by renouncing a com- mentary (“I hate commentaries”), Podnieks discovered a lost continent. The originality of Is It Easy To Be Young? led Central Television to commission from Podnieks the five hour-long documentaries about the USSR of the Gorbachevyears that were broadcast in Britain in 1990 as Hallo, Do You Hear Us? Though he included all the key events of the period, from Chernobyl (where his group filmed with great bravery, immediately after the explosion) to the ‘is It Easy To Be Young?’ by Juris Podnieks Armenian earthquake, to national tensions in the Baltic, Transcaucasia and Central Asia - and though there are detailed and prophetic interviews with Sakharov and a temporarily outmanoeuvred Yeltsin — here too it is faces and voices, the testimony of ordinary people (again without commen- tary), from factory workers in Yaroslavl to a rejected bride in Uzbekistan, that give the film its density. That and some startling editing: “Montage is the most horrendous part. | don’t trust my film until I sense its rhythm is as natural as breathing”, Podnieks said in one of his last interviews. Homeland (1991, also made for Central, and called The Way of the Cross in Russian) traces the rediscovery of Latvian national traditions. Again there are faces, again there are voices, but now they are singing at the 20th Latvian Song Festival, and the songs and the swaying movements of the choirs provide the thread that binds together what is probably Podnieks’ most powerful, most coherent film. Just as he was about to show his film, in January 1991, a crackdown on the Baltic independence movement led to violent repression in Vil- nius and Riga. While Podnieks and his team were filming in Riga, his regular camera- men Andris Slapins and Gvido Zvaigzne were shot by troops, and footage of their deaths provides the poignant ending of the 30-minute Postscript (1991) to Homeland. On the first day of the attempted putsch in the Soviet Union, 19 August 1991, Pod- nieks was again filming in Riga, when he was arrested by troops. Finding that he was the director of Is It Easy To Be Young?, they decided not to beat him, but when he was handed over to the notorious special police, the OMON, he was not so lucky. Podnieks' last film for Central, End of Empire (1991), combines footage of Moscow during the days of the coup with a montage of sequences from his earlier films. It is his least personal, most unfocused work, and Podnieks spoke more than once in late interviews of his fear that he was repeating himself, of his desire to start to make the feature films he had long dreamed of. Juris Podnieks survived when a heli- copter he was travelling in over Armenia was shot at; he survived the shootings in Riga that killed his friends, It is tragic and absurd that he should have died in a freak diving accident just when a new stage in his career might have begun. Julian Graffy @ July Franco Cristaldi, whose Vides com- pany produced work by Visconti, Rosi, Tor- natore; Kanan Devi, Bengali superstar; Regi- nald Beck, cutter for Olivier, Losey, etc; Hans Feld, British-based publicist and critic; Rudolf Ising, pioneer animator, with side- kick Hugh Harman, at Disney, Warner Bros, MGM; Herman King, the last of the pro- ducer King brothers; Christian Blackwood, maker of films about film-makers Corman, Lino Brocka et al; Arletty; Amjad Khan, star of dozens of Indian films, @ August Ephraim Katz, author of the com- pendious International Film Encyclopedia; Simon Hartog, co-founder of the London Film-Makers Co-op, of Large Door Produc- tions, general mover and shaker; John Sturges; David E. Rose, independent pro- ducer of various Anglo-American ventures (The End of the Affair, The Safecracker); George R. Nelson, set decorator (The Manchurian Can- didate, The Right Stuff); Hideo Gosha, director Laurel and Hardy, teamed up by Hal Roach of numerous samurai movies; Claude Barma, hard-working director of French television. @ September Morris Carnovsky, character actor with familiar career parabola: Group Theatre/Hollywood/the blacklist; Henry Ephron, writer/producer (Carousel, Desk Set), husband of Phoebe, father of Nora; Mervyn Johns, gruff-voiced character actor (Went the Day Well?, Dead of Night); Gerald Hanley, nov- elist and scriptwriter (The Blue Max); H. F. Koenekamp, special-effects photographer at Warner Bros; Ruth Nelson, another Group alumna, wife of John Cromwell; Anthony Perkins; Arkedy Ruderman, Russian docu- mentarist who came to prominence during the reign of Gorbachev and died filming troubles in Central Asia; John Taylor, brother-in-law of John Grierson and pillar of the documentary movement in his own right; Bill Williams, honest citizen fre- quently beset by noir-related problems (Dead- line at Dawn, The Clay Pigeon), later television's Kit Carson; William Douglas-Home, prolific playwright (The Reluctant Debutante), occa- sional scriptwriter (The Colditz Story); Jean Aurenche, writing partner of Pierre Bost on films by Autant-Lara, Clément, the Allégrets; Bill Rowe, Elstree sound engineer. @ October Denholm Elliott; Ben Maddow, scriptwriter (The Asphalt Jungle), director (The Savage Eye), blacklistee; Shirley Booth, Broadway heavyweight who enjoyed a brief Hollywood vogue (Come Back Little Sheba); Anna Hill Johnstone, costume designer (East of Eden, The Godfather); Viadek Sheybal, actor who relocated from Poland (Kanal) to the UK (various Ken Russells); Cleavon Little, the black sheriff in Blazing Saddles, @ November Raoul André, director of Eddie Constantine vehicles; Premnath, star of the Hindi cinema; José Saenz de Heredia, prolific Spanish director; Mark Rosenberg, producer, partner with Sydney Pollack in their Mirage company; Chuck Connors, por- trayer of cowboys (The Big Country), Indians (Geronimo) and sundry hard cases; Gregory Markopoulos, avant-garde film-maker; Mau- rice Ohana, protean composer with a mixed bag of movie credits (Goha, Les Dents du singe); Diane Varsi. fresh-faced Fox starlet of the late SOs (Peyton Place, Compulsion); John Fore- man, production partner of Paul Newman; Sterling Holloway, hayseed player with a remarkable set of vocal cords, heard on the soundtracks of various Disney cartoons. Hal Roach (born 14 January 1892) was older than the movies and had been in Holly- wood since the first studios were opened. Even before he arrived there in 1912, he had seen a good deal of pioneering America. At 17 he ran away from home in Elmira, New York ~ leaving behind also his given names of Harold Eugene - to prospect for gold in Alaska. When the anticipated riches did not materialise, he became in succes- sion a mule skinner, saloon gambler and haulage man. Drifting to Los Angeles, his ability to ride won him a job acting in cowboy pictures, for $25 a week, at the new Universal studio. There he met another young bit player, Harold Lloyd. When Roach inherited $3,000, they set up their own company to make one-reel comedies starring Lloyd as a Chaplin-inspired tramp character, Willie Work. The films found no market, and Lloyd went to Keystone while Roach joined Essanay, where he and Chaplin became friends. A few months later, as the Rolin Company with Pathé distribution, Roach and Lloyd tried again; as Lonesome Luke, Lloyd was launched as a star in his own right. Later Roach helped Lloyd to develop his definitive character of the diffident young man in horn-rim glasses. After their ultimate parting. Roach was inspired to team two comedians who had been working solo for years. Laurel and Hardy were to pass into mythology. The style of the Roach stars - Lloyd, Lau- rel and Hardy, Our Gang, Thelma Todd and Zasu Pitts, Charlie Chase, Will Rogers, Edgar Kennedy, Snub Pollard — exemplifies the dif- ference between Roach and his rival in the comedy business, Mack Sennett. Sennett's films tended to frenetic action and slap- stick, whereas Roach preferred well-con- structed stories and a more restrained, real- istic and sophisticated style of character comedy. Harold Lloyd and Stan and Ollie are recognisably human, sharing the foibles, feelings and anxieties of an audi- ence which is also engaged in the perma- nent battle with the perilous uncertainties of the contemporary world, Roach showed a shrewd anticipation of taste, which enabled him to change and rationalise his product, and was evidently a gifted organiser, He weathered the transi- tion to sound, and moved from shorts into features - in silent days with Lloyd, in the 30s with Laurel and Hardy. As well as the comedy-star vehicles, his feature produc- tions included the Topper films, starring Constance Bennett and Cary Grant, and One Million B.C, on which he found an assign- ment for the forgotten D, W. Griffith (Roach gratefully remembered visiting the set of Intolerance in his youth). Of his prestigious production of Of Mice and Men, directed by Lewis Milestone, he said disarmingly, “It's only Laurel and Hardy being serious”. During the war, the studio became Fort Roach, turned over to the production of propaganda and training films for the armed services. After the war, Roach and his son Hal Junior (who predeceased him) converted the studio to television produc- tion until its closure in the Jate 50s. Roach continued to the end of his life to take a close interest in the movie business, always ready to find new ways to exploit his old classics. An unrepentant iconoclast, he was a pioneer enthusiast for colorisation, particularly of his own films. He remained in good enough shape to celebrate his cen- tenary, and a month later travelled to Europe for a tribute at the Berlin festival, He confessed to being tired by a tour of the vast acres of Babelsberg, but his packed pro- gramme of press interviews was not seri- ously affected. Showmanship, with Roach, outlasted everything. David Robinson @ December Luis Alcoriza, Bufuel’s script collaborator; Percy Herbert, British icon of the 50s - the tough sergeant, the pugna- cious prole; Hank Worden, portrayer of scrawny simpletons from The Searchers to Twin Peaks; Randall Duell, art director (Sin- gin’ in the Rain, Blackboard Jungle); C. V. Whit- ney, money man behind Selznick et al; Liam O'Leary, critic and archivist; Dana Andrews; Stella Adler, influential teacher and Method proselytiser; Lord (Ted) Willis, writer who aspired to be the British Chayevsky (The Blue Lamp. Woman in a Dressing Gown), Vivienne Segal, successful star of Broadway musicals who was less successful in Hollywood. SIGHT AND SOUND 31/2 g | Obsession A rare sorrow If | had to pick the five greatest Western directors of all time, the problem wouldn't be to pick five, but to figure out how many Westerns a director had to make to be con- sidered a Western director, Does one film do it? Can I make a case for Marlon Brando, since One-Eyed Jacks is one of my five favourite Westerns? How about Philip Kauf- man? Can I with good conscience put him on the list above King Vidor, Henry Hath- away and Sam Peckinpah, on the strength of The Great Northfield Minnesota Raid (the best of the Jesse James movies with Robert Du- vall, the scariest and most psychotic Jesse on film), and writing the script (and direct- ing about a week) of The Outlaw Josey Wales, This dilemma solved itself when I came to Monte Hellman. There's no way in hell Monte ain't going on the list. I don't care if he's only done three, but two of them - Ride in the Whirlwind and The Shooting — demand that honour. Monte also made me come to grips with the whole Marlon Brando/One- Eyed Jacks problem, because much as | like The Shooting, had he never made it, just doing Ride would have been enough for me. Producer Fred Roos, who would later pro- duce Apocalypse Now, had a deal to do two films in the Philippines to be shot concur- rently. He had seen Roger Corman's The Ter- ror, starring Boris Karloff and Jack Nichol- son, and had heard that two young directors had shot the majority of it. Their names were Monte Hellman and Francis Ford Coppola. Roos’ response was “send me either one”. Monte got the job. The deal was simple, Roos had to make two cheap action-adventure films set in the Philippines. He had the script for one, a war film called Back Door to Hell, but the second one was open, Monte suggested that they use the young actor from The Terror, Jack Nicholson, who he knew was also a screen- writer. The idea was that Jack would act in Back Door to Hell, write the script for the sec- ond film, and act in that one as well. The script Nicholson wrote was Flight to Fury. Monte's first film, Beast From the Haunted Cave, written by the great Charles Griffith, was a lot of fun. Back Door to Hell is pretty good, but Flight to Fury was the first of the great Monte Hellman pictures, and Little Shop of Horrors aside, the first film in which Jack Nicholson came into his own as an actor. Nicholson, in a part he wrote for him- self, finally had the assurance, the experi- ence, the words and the director to deliver the performance that had eluded him up to this point. The film's other lead was Howard Hawks’ regular Dewey Martin (The Big Sky, The Thing), an underrated actor who should have done better in the 50s-than he did. Nicholson's feral, hip, cerebral, 60s style of acting plays well with Martin's hardboiled, tough 50s cool-guy style. (On a personal note, I get a special kick from watching them because Martin resembles Michael Madsen in my movie Reservoir Dogs, and Nicholson resem- bles actor Steve Buscemi.) The teaming of Hellman and Nicholson played well too, As can be seen from the film { made, I like what I call “kitchen-sink movies”, which means “there's everything 32/2 SIGHT ANDO SOUND Quentin Tarantino reflects on great Westerns and celebrates Monte Hellman’s ‘Ridein the Whirlwind’, with its mix of innocence and desperation in it but...", and there are about four movies crammed into Flight to Fury. The first 15 minutes are an action adventure murder mystery full of exotic locations (the Philip- pines), a rugged hero (Martin), a sexy Orien- tal femme fatale (who will be dead by the fourth scene), and shifty characters who are not what they appear (Nicholson at first appears to be a likeable nerdy guy, but then is quickly revealed to be an ice-cold killer with a hidden agenda). Then Martin and Nicholson hop on an aeroplane, where we're introduced to a whole new batch of interesting and suspicious characters. After flying the friendly skies with them for about 20 minutes, as they sniff each other out and philosophise (Nicholson's conversa- tion about death with a fellow passenger, the late Jacqueline Hellman, seems to come straight out of a Hal Hartley movie), in what plays like the oddest and greatest Airport movie ever made, the plane crashes. Which turns the film into a skewed version of Max Frisch's novel Homo Faber, as the survivors stranded in the jungle fight to stay alive, fight bands of marauding pirates, and fight and kill one another. Hellman and Nicholson made a terrific little film and a terrific team, so a partner- ship between the two was struck. Nicholson wrote a script for a Western that the two could do cheap, and they took that script, Ride in the Whirlwind, to Roger Corman. Cor- man liked Nicholson's script very much and agreed to do it. Then added, in that way that has made the man a legend, “Since you'll be out there on location, why don’t you do two movies?” So the two partners repeated the duties they had just done with Fred Roos in the Philippines: shooting the two movies concurrently with the same crew, Nichol- son writing and starring in one, acting in the other and Hellman directing both. However, this time Nicholson would pro- duce both films as well. The other film was The Shooting, starring Warren Oates, Millie Perkins, Will Hutchins (then star of the television show Sugarfoot) and Nicholson as a Jack Palance-inspired gunfighter named Billy Spear. The script was written by a friend of Nicholson's from Jeff Corey's acting class, Carole Eastrnan, who would go on to write for Nicholson Five Easy Pieces, The Fortune and Man Trouble. Her script, written under the pseudonym Adrien Joyce, is like a metaphysical version of Budd Boetticher's Ride Lonesome. Corman apparently hated it, but proceeded anyway because it was the only one ready to go, and at that price he couldn't lose. Today The Shooting is widely considered the masterpiece of the two. Kevin Thomas, film critic for the Los Angeles Times wrote: “The difference between the two [Ride in the Whirlwind and The Shooting] is the difference between the definitely good and the arguably great”. Most critics in France and the US agree (with Michel Ciment an impor- tant exception), and Monte himself prefers The Shooting. But for me, it’s the simplicity, the naturalistic tone, the awkward-sound- ing (because it’s so authentic) cowboy ver- nacular, the feeling of sadness that's between every line, the burst of ridiculous comic moments, the beautiful underplay- ing of Nicholson and Cameron Mitchell, all wrapped up in a wing-ding plot, that make Ride in the Whirlwind one of the most authen- tic and brilliant Westerns ever made. Monte made Westerns unlike any before or since. He slowed down all the action so the scenes play at a real-time pace unheard of in a Western. The effect is almost as if Monte were in the projection booth, grab- bing a fistful of film as it passes in front of the bulb and yanking it down, so each frame is illuminated longer for better exam- ination. The film opens with a stagecoach hold-up that produces giggles due to the lazy, laconic manner of the robbers. It’s the exact opposite of the snappy action scene we've become accustomed to (a robber gets a laugh from me every time for the way he unhurriedly moves a log out of the stage- coach's way). In direct contrast with Monte's tone is Nicholson's plot, which is far from existential, In fact, it could easily be a great rip-snorting episode of Bonanza. From innocent to outlaw Three cowhands riding together, Wes (Nicholson), Vern (Mitchell), and Otis (Tom Filer), come across a gang of desperadoes holed up in a shack. The desperados have just robbed the local stage and are hiding out. The outlaws figure these saddle tramps want nothing more than to bed down (they're right), so they oblige them. The cowhands put two and two together real fast and figure out these are bad men and “look forward to partin’ company with them fellas" in the morning; however, morning brings a posse hellbent on shootin’ and hangin’ everybody. Filer is shot, and Nicholson and Mitchell escape with the posse hot on their trail. The two men, scared and sorrowful (because of the death of their friend, beautifully conveyed by the way Nicholson just folds up in grief after dismounting from his horse) must now make their way out of the territory on foot, all the while trying to keep two steps ahead of the ever-approaching posse. “If we get some horses we're out of it", Nicholson says. So to that end they commandeer a ranch tended by an old man (George Mitchell) and his wife (Katherine Squire), and their 19- year-old daughter (Millie Perkins), Holding the family hostage and stealing their stock turns the two innocents into the outlaws the posse believes them to be. One of the truly brilliant things about the movie is Nicholson's sparse and authentic Western dialogue, taken from letters and journals of that time. These are inarticulate people liv- ing in simple times using a spare vocabu- lary. Sometimes this language is funny, as when the three cowhands come across a hanged man and, after looking at him a good long while, Nicholson responds, “Man gets hanged" At other times, it’s moving, as when instead of going on and on about how they're innocent and it ain't fair, or how scared they are, Nicholson says to Mitchell on the run, with just the right touch of emotion, “No one’s gonna put a name to me and that’s it” Attempts to explain their innocence to BFI STILLS, FOSTERS AND DESIGNS. 7 : esc SSR SS Aa Jack Nicholson in Monte Hellm, an’s great Western, the family fall on deaf ears. This family’s existence seems to be a hand-to-mouth one: they live on an ugly, barren piece of dirt away from any other people (when anyone approaches their world, they become threatened). The old man doesn't work a farm, he just chops monotonously all day at a tree stump with an axe. The women just seem to cook grub. These people have nothing and then these two dangerous outlaws (as they're told earlier by the posse) take what little they have... the old man’s dignity (he runs the small shack like a king, but now must let two other men dominate him in his kingdom and rule over his women), and what little they own of value, their stock (horses), It is in the attempts of these two non-verbal men to articulate their inno- cence and desperation to their innocent and desperate hostages that the film Ride in the Whirlwind’ achieves a rare sorrow. As Mitchell and Nicholson sit at their table after eating their food, and play checkers, as the old man whacks away outside at the formidable stump, Mitchell says, “We borrow their checkers, we steal their horses, there just don't seem to be no end to it” “No use to that”, Nicholson replies. The acting has a strangely eccentric qual- ity. Harry Dean Stanton as the outlaw leader Blind Dick, and Squire and George Mitchell as the old folks are right as rain. When I met Harry Dean Stanton | told him how much | loved Ride. He said, “That's the best Western I was ever in, and one of the best I ever saw”. But Peter Cannon as a hot- headed outlaw and Millie Perkins give some eccentric line readings. Cannon's voice has a strangely effeminate quality, “I shoulda picked them off original” Perkins’ perfor- mance is an oddball classic. Her “Yes, we do” ‘When|ImetHarry Dean Stanton | told him how much I loved “Ride”. Hesaid, “That’s the best Western Iwas ever in, and one ofthe bestleversaw’” when they ask if she has any checkers has affected the way I say “Yes, I do”. But Hell- man built the film around the perfor- mances of Cameron Mitchell and Jack Nicholson, and it’s easy to see why... these two men are terrific. To see Mitchell, who has since unfortu- nately gone the way of Aldo Ray (another talented actor of the 50s), appearing in any- thing, including porno movies, that will pay his price, do the subtle, unmannered, personal work he does here is to shed a tear for all the wonderful actors in film who never had the opportunity to fly where their talent could have taken them, When a fine actor, who has managed to keep his instincts even after appearing in junk for a long time, gets a real role with something to play, a special light goes on in his eyes. You can see it in Martin Landau’s perfor- mances in Tucker, Joe Don Baker's scene- stealing turn in The Natural, and Richard Crenna’s menacing dinner table conversa- tion in Body Heat — all performances in big pictures that stopped or saved those actors from plunging into an exploitation movie hell. That same light shines brightly in Mitchell's eyes throughout Ride in the Whirl- wind, and it’s that light that accounts for what must be the finest performance of his long career. Star-in-the-making Jack Nicholson, on the other hand, went on to become one of the biggest stars in the history of movies. Both a great star and a great actor, but more than that, Nicholson has passed over into cultural-icon status like Bogart, John Wayne, James Dean, Marilyn Monroe and Madonna (witness the refer- ences to him in Disney's Aladdin, and Christ- ian Slater's homage in Heathers). Anybody who tunes into Ride in the Whirlwind as a curiosity to see the work of a star-in-the- making will be shocked. Nicholson's work in Ride ranks as one of his finest performances, as Robert De Niro’s work in Mean Streets is one of his finest per- formances. Not only is Nicholson wonderful as Wes, but he does the kind of no-nonsense meat-and-potatoes work I'd love to see him do again (the closest he's come recently is his work in the much-maligned The Two Jakes, which I, for one, loved). Seeing Nichol- son play small, after a decade of playing large, reminds us that Nicholson became the icon he is not just by being a great Nicholson, but by being a great actor. If ever a director was due for critical rediscovery, it would be Monte Hellman. With his naturalistic style and pace, his invisibly punchy editing rhythms, and the journeys his characters inevitably set sail on, his influence can be found in the work of such directors as Hartley, Wim Wenders, Jim Jarmusch, and Terrence Malick (as Pauline Kael noted, though unfavourably, in her review of Badlands). This year Monte starts a new film, ‘Dark Passion’, based on the Lionel White novel Obsession. Which Godard used as his jumping-off point for Pierrot Le Fou. Movie theatres would be much happier places with a new Monte Hellman movie playing in them. SIGHT AND SOUND 33/2 COOKS Criminal desires: Oshima’s powerful love story ‘Inthe Realm of the Senses’ explores the politics of sex and violence 34|2 SIGHT AND SOUND Roads to freedom | Lesley Stern Cinema, Censorship and the State: The Writings of Nagisa Oshima Nagisa Oshima, MIT Press, £31.50, 308pp “The first films worthy of the name will be those in which every shot incorporates the same level of critique that informs the work as a whole”. To re-use a method is to “surrender to reality”, writes Oshima in 1960, signalling a belief in self-negation that permeates both his films and his writing. What makes his oeuvre exciting is its radical diversity — every film is different, made differently, made to provoke a different way of seeing. But it is not just the variety that is arresting; it is that each shot is invested with the particu- lar and impassioned critique peculiar to the film as a whole. This collection of writings (from the mid-50s to the late 70s) does not provide detailed commentary on Oshima's movies, but it does articulate an illuminating phi- losophy. The writing itself, like the films, is diverse but always lively and engaged with particular issues and audiences, free- ing the viewer or reader to reflect more gen- erally and to think more vividly about what matters - in cinema and in life. “How far can we go beyond naturalism and still permit each existence to stand on its own?” This is a question that circulates throughout Oshima's work, posing a peren- nial challenge and stimulus. In a very early polemic - an engagement in public debates about the state of contemporary Japanese cinema - Oshima asserts that “The new work must centre on the vivid desires and actions of people who are grappling with the status quo. They must not depict feeble complexes, shabby emotions, or quiet virtue”, and he goes on to discuss how such work has to find new modes of expression. The challenge is to find a way of enabling the unspeakable to be spoken, of liberating those voices which usually are unheard or suppressed, of permitting “each existence to stand on its own” without resorting to methods of depiction that merely repro- duce the reality of the status quo. His best- known film, In the Realm of the Senses, is an audacious exploration of this dynamic, but the dynamic itself is not new. Oshima’s interest in crime, youth, ‘aberrant’ sexual- ity, and in those ~- such as Koreans - who are marginalised or oppressed in modern Japan has been ever-present, manifested in vari- ous resistive cinematic strategies. “To make films is a criminal act in this world”, This proclamation comes from an early period when Oshima’s writing is fer- vently combative, but it is more than an expression of youthful rebellion. Resolutely anti-sentimental, Oshima sees resistance not necessarily as glorious and romantic, but as derived from weakness and dispos- session. Similarly, he sees his own spirit of adventure as a frantic effort to protect or overcome weakness and cowardice. In elab- orating such ideas, he produces some intriguing passages, where subjective mus- ings intersect with more _ theoretical reflections. He seems at times to experience himself (as film-maker) as one of those demonic criminals who enlist his fascina- tion - people who recognise an inner impulse to commit crimes, but don’t under- stand it. It is only, he says, in the process of film production that understanding begins to dawn - understanding of his own desires, and of the more general issues at stake in the film. In this sense, film-making is both an enactment of unconscious (and often prohibited) desires and an act of resistance against repression. Not simply, however, on a personal level. Films exist within the pub- lic domain, as does crime; repression exists within the individual psyche and through the regulatory functions of the state. And always there is a connection - albeit convo- luted — between the different levels. “Is sex really an individual matter?”, he asks. I once heard him respond to a ques- tion about the relation between sex and pol- itics by saying: “People do not talk about politics when they are making love. This is exactly why there is a profound relation”. His films are testimony to this combination of conviction and indirectness, or undecid- ability; they are works of fiction (often based on real events) which elicit an imagi- native response, by which I mean that you are incited not only to experience the “vivid desires and actions” of his protagonists, but also to imagine connections not depicted and, moreover, to make critical connec- tions. Violence at Noon was one of the first Oshima films I saw, and I have seen it only once, but certain images remain, and return to haunt - the startling effect of widescreen close-ups, movement across the frame, the blurring of fantasy and the real, and the very troubling evocation of sexual violence. For me, it is still a film in the mak- ing, to be imagined, Defending In the Realm of the Senses (the movie was banned in Japan and charges of obscenity were laid against the book of the film), Oshima opens with a clear indication that he will not buy into the art vs obscen- ity debate - “I have absolutely no intention of asserting, ‘Because this is art it is not obscene’, He ends (after a long and detailed argument, incorporating an overview of the history of censorship and suppression in Japan) by turning to the issue of freedom of expression. “Formerly I prided myself on being an expressive person, but now I am rather ashamed of it... Those who express themselves and their work shine in the light of the lives led by silent people like O-Sada and O-Seki |heroines of In the Realm of the Senses and Empire of Passion|, unable to articulate their difficulties. We must not be confused about the relative importance of freedom of expression. In that sense, | am struggling in this trial to expand freedom of sexual expression, however minimally. But more than that, I am fighting for the freedom of people to see, read, and listen to expressions of sexuality”. Hollow man Brian Neve Frank Capra: The Catastrophe of Success Joseph McBride, Faber and Faber, £25, 763pp If Frank Capra gave us the legend in his autobiography The Name Above the Title, Joseph McBride unveils a darker side of the American dream ~- a Sicilian immigrant's rise to fame in 30s Hollywood followed by a sudden decline a decade later. What emerges in this biography is something of a hollow man — insecure, bigoted, ungener- ous and fundamentally ill at ease with the independence he professed to desire. Seven years in the writing, this massive volume leaves no stone unturned. It recounts — sometimes in excessive detail - how Capra became self-consciously Ameri- can at an early age, distancing himself from his parents and obsessively striving for edu- cational and social advancement. In the mid-20s Capra wrote comedies for Mack Sennett, but as Hal Roach commented, “You'd never take him for a gag man”. An early protégé of Harry Langdon - Capra's first film as director was The Strong Man (1926) - Capra is said to have hastened Lang- don’s decline by writing a poison-pen letter about him to a trade paper, But the direc- tor’s real success came at Columbia Pic- tures, where he began a crucial but grudg- ingly acknowledged collaboration with liberal writer Robert Riskin and camera- man Joe Walker. McBride's study certainly adds to our Existential angst: James Stewart in ‘It’s a Wonderful Life’, Capra's witty populist critique of the American Way knowledge of Capra’s career by filling in the background to the films that brought him fame and transformed Harry Cohn into a major-league mogul. However, the movies themselves sometimes threaten to disap- pear under the weight of descriptions of pressures and influences. Capra’s middle period is seen as owing much of its New Deal ethos to the liberal and left writers he needed to connect his fantasies to the real concerns of Depression America; Capra himself is revealed as a lifelong Republican whose hostility to Roosevelt softened only during the Hollywood anti-fascism of the late 30s. McBride tends to refer to critical debates only in passing. Interesting ideas - that Riskin may be the true auteur of Capra's work, for instance, or the notion of “post- war sexist ideology” - are raised, but not engaged with analytically. He doffs his cap in the direction of those who see Capra as a populist, looking backwards to a pre-indus- trial golden age, and he also traces autobio- graphical influences in the movies. Though critical of auteurist approaches, surpris- ingly McBride fails to come to grips with Raymond Carney’s arguments in American Vision that the recurrent motifs in Capra's work are metaphors for more central ques- tions about the testing of individual will. For Carney, Capra’s dramatisations of exis- tential problems place him in a US pan- theon headed by William James. To McBride, Capra’s winning formula was a product of his immigrant insecurity — his view of himself as both common man and American success story — aided by the con- structions of writers, critics and the Depres- sion audience. After his army service, during which he supervised wartime propaganda films, Capra returned to Hollywood and joined George Stevens and William Wyler in form- ing Liberty Films, an idealistic but short- lived independent venture, As Capra becomes increasingly wary of the left and liberal associations that had contributed to his earlier success, McBride's story takes on a darker tone. While John Ford had the Western, Capra's formula seemed increas- ingly played out after It's a Wonderful Life (1947). Criticising the reality of American life by praising the ideal became more difficult to carry off as the blacklist and Cold War made Hollywood suspicious of social content. McBride quotes Capra rant- ing about having to clear an actor he wanted for It’s a Wonderful Life with “that awful prick”, John Wayne. Making use of new primary sources, and the uncut version of Capra's highly inaccu- rate autobiography, McBride shows that, as well as being a victim of HUAC - he failed a security clearance in 1951 - Capra also acted as an informer for both the FBI and the State Department as he became desper- ate to assert his patriotism, Capra lost both confidence and self-respect, and spent much of the remainder of his time either trying to forget or reconstructing his life as myth. McBride provides valuable insight into the influence of Hollywood politics on Capra's life, and powerfully suggests that these constraints contributed to his success. Cut off from liberal and left writers, he lost relevance, and his anti-communist work for the government in the 50s was a sign of defeat, much like George Bailey's resigna- tion to the limitations of small-town life at the end of It’s a Wonderful Life. Capra became all things to all people; cited in support of Reagan's right-wing populism in the 80s, he was also seen by Costa-Gavras as “the inspi- ration for every political film-maker”. McBride's grand design does not always fit with his discussion of the films, and per- haps leads him to underestimate Capra's immediately post-war work. In combat- » SIGHT AND SOUND 38/2 ILLS, POSTERS AN 4 ting what he sees as the myths of Capra and the American dream and of Capra the auteur, he may swing too far the other way. However, his book is a valuable step towards demystification. Disappearing worlds Michael Eaton Film As Ethnography Peter I, Crawford and David Turton (eds), Manchester University Press, £40 (hb), £17.50 (pb), 322pp The last major collection on the relation- ship between film and anthropology (Princi- ples of Visual Anthropology, edited by Paul Hockings) was produced in 1975. The pre- sent volume can be seen as a demonstration not only of the changes that have taken place in Social Anthropology during the intervening years, but also as an indicator that a species of film theory generated in France in the 70s has found a favourable, if temporary, domicile in the social sci- ences. Those who regret the passing of ‘the moment of theory’ would be well advised to consult this book; in the best contributions, issues of cinematic and televisual represen- tation come face to face with problems of documentary ethics. The attitudes of anthropologists towards film expressed in the earlier collection could be crudely summarised as follows: there were those who saw film as an unproblematic reflection of reality, entirely appropriate to anthropology’s endeavour, and there were others who viewed the ‘evi- dence’ captured by the camera as a threat to the discipline, something which should be subordinated to anthropology's authority as a science, The work of a few film-makers implicitly challenged these views. In the US, for exam- ple, Timothy Asch’s films problematised the ethical implications of the spectators’ rela- tionship with the alien and exotic Other, while Robert Gardner moved towards an aestheticised auteurism which wilfully shrugged off the strictures imposed by anthropological colleagues. And in France, Jean Rouch delighted in producing films that were constructions rather than reflections of reality, revelling in the prospect of his presence as a film-maker affecting the events he was filming. How- ever, the written material displayed no sophisticated consideration of issues of cin- ematic representation, narrativity, the con- struction of reality, the mechanics of spec- tatorship and the audience - all matters which absorbed film theorists at the time Hockings’ volume appeared. Since then, anthropology has been through a process of self-reflection and (dare one say it?) deconstruction. The very title of this collection reflects that process. For what is posited here is not the name of a discipline (anthropology) but of a practice (ethnography). In recent years, ethnogra- phy itself has been reconceptualised: no longer the objective basis of a science, it can be seen as a genre of writing which arises out of an encounter between the observer and the observed. Ethnography is consid- ered to be both bound by convention and subjective. Film, then, takes its place as 36|2 SIGHT ANDSOUND ethnography. rather than as an adjunct or threat to it. The range of issues discussed in this pre- sent volume is exemplary, spanning exami- nations of the way anthropological author- ity is challenged by cinematic conventions, through questions of documentary aesthet- ics, through issues of the politics and ethics of representation, ending with surveys and case studies of anthropology and the broad- casting institutions. This latter section is probably most amenable to the general reader, containing inter alia a useful overview by André Singer and an extremely honest appraisal by David Turton of his role as ethnographic adviser for the four films by Leslie Woodhead of the Mursi of south- western Ethiopia for Granada's Disappearing World, He concludes: “I am asking for such programmes to be presented more as encounters than observations, more as dia- logues with than dialogues about people. This would require a willingness. on the part of both anthropologists and pro- gramme-maker to dismantle the protective walls behind which they are used to hiding from the public gaze”. If this volume is any- thing to go by, the first steps towards this goal have now been taken. Out to lunch Robert Murphy Albert Finney In Character Quentin Falk, Robson Books, £16.95, 244pp Introducing his new book, Quentin Falk cites another reviewer's dismissal of star biographies as “a slavish expression of an empty consensus... avoiding serious judg- ment in fayour of servile documentation”, He promises to do better than this, recount- ing his determination to get his subject's involvement in the work. By page two, how- ever, Finney has declined to co-operate and Falk is reduced to banality. “Friends say that he has two distinct personalities: one direct and friendly; the next complicated and guarded. He is a Northerner”. The mysteries shrouding this enigmatic Northerner are hardly great: why hasn't he been knighted, why did he decline to appear on Desert Island Discs, and how did he avoid having to do National Service? Fortunately, the book improves once Falk gets on with the documentation, which is tactful rather than servile. As befits an ex- editor of Screen International, he draws on his industry contacts, exhorting them to reveal what they know of the elusive Finney as he flits between stage and film set, racecourse and restaurant. The accounts vary in qual- ity, from Sheridan Morley's irrelevant chit- chat about Finney’s relationship with Peter Bull (“Peter was deeply gay... Peter was deeply in love with Albert... and... saw in Albert, I think, a sort of native courage he also deeply admired”) to Alan Parker's sar- donic “He was once the most brilliant actor in the whole world and then became some- one who enjoyed lunch more than acting” Falk's biography consists mostly of a chronological account of Finney’s acting roles, from the Mayor of Ratville in a junior school play to Sergeant Hegarty in the recent The Playboys. One film or play follows another, eliding the substantial gaps between performances. Between 1971 and 1981 there was only Hercule Poirot in Mur- der on the Orient Express and a couple of walk on parts; between Under the Volcano (1984) and Miller's Crossing (1991) only a filmed play. Falk discreetly mentions Finney’s “ambition by-pass”, but his method does not allow him to explain it. He gives only rudimentary details about Finney’s marriages and seri- ous liaisons, and the anecdotes from inter- viewees about the actor's kindness, generos- ity and professionalism are strangely uniform. Only Alan Parker is pugnacious enough to insist on Finney’s indolence and complacency. There are hints that Finney is more than this. His support for controversial projects like Lindsay Anderson's [f.., Mike Leigh's Bleak Moments and Brian Friel’s play about Bloody Sunday, The Freedom of the City, sug- gests that he might be less conservative than other 60s icons such as Sean Connery and Michael Caine, and more dangerous than burnt-out hell-raisers Peter O'Toole and Richard Harris, Certainly his choice of film roles since Saturday Night and Sunday Morning (Night Must Fall, Charlie Bubbles, Gumshoe, Wolfen, Shoot the Moon, Under the Vol- cano, Miller’s Crossing) is more idiosyncratic and interesting than theirs. He has made bad choices too, but it is only in recent efforts like the television production The Green Man and The Playboys that a definite sogginess has set in. This is a disappointingly dull book for such a colourful subject. Finney emerges as a horse-lover who enjoys acting the kindly uncle to his less well-off colleagues, This might be enough for Mr Falk and the Home Counties, but we Northerners are used to a bit more grit. The best years Sean Day-Lewis Done Viewing Philip Purser, Quartet Books, £14.95, 275pp During the 70s and beyond, while I went on about the telly in the Daily Telegraph, Philip Purser wrote an elegant and erudite TV col- umn for the Sunday Telegraph. I was new to the field and inclined to be enthusiastic about work which seemed to me distinctive, innovative, non-derivative, non-imitative and all the other words presently bran- dished on behalf of the Birtist, not to say Marmaducal, BBC. Whenever I became fool- ishly carried away I could always be sure of a Purser correction on Sunday, gently point- ing out precisely when this or that screen idea had been more successfully applied. Philip Purser, who had been reviewing TV for various Fleet Street organs since 1955, was one of those rare critics who knew and cared about the use and abuse of the medium. He also had a good memory or filing system: most likely, both. When the Sunday Telegraph was launched in 1961, its donnish first editor, Donald McLachlan, invited political writer T. E. Utley to write the TV review column. It was thought that Utley, being blind, would be able to concen- trate on the content without being dis- tracted by the pictures. When this idea broke down, Purser was hired, an after- thought who was to remain in place for twenty-six years. It is a minor disappointment of his urbane and amusing memoir, sub-titled ‘A personal account of the best years of our television, that Purser does not indulge in any sustained assault on the attitudes with which the masters of Fleet Street faced tele- vision during this period: seeing it simulta- neously as a rich news source, a base infested with the pinktinted enemy within, and a joke. Though Purser worked effectively against the grain of this cynicism, through his own best years, he eventually became one of its victims. In 1987 a careless new Telegraph broom ruled that he should be ‘allowed to go’ and so he did, only to be replaced by a string of reviewers simply not in his league. After a final two year$ at the Daily Mail, as second string to an inferior chief critic, he was dismissed by editor, Sir David English, on the grounds that he, like the number-one man himself, was not a woman. Curiously, it was the Mail that had first demonstrated, through its renowned columnist Peter Black, that newspaper reviewing of television could be a serious and useful activity. As the most successful of Black's disciples, Purser achieved a simi- larly entertaining mix of constructive response. Humour was used as one of sev- eral tools, but was not the be-all and end-all of his craftsmanship. Nancy Banks-Smith in the Guardian and, briefly, Clive James in the Observer proved more influential in their effect on the fraternity of broadsheet edi- tors. But they were misread. Unlike their inferior imitators, they also knew and cared about their subject. In his summing-up chapter, Purser records a homily I once received from Observer editor Donald Trelford, to the effect that some critics (like Purser) wrote for the trade while those he preferred served “the punters” Answering this, Purser argues that, as far as he is concerned, “a critic writes for his or her readers, and no one else... but that does not excuse him or her from being well-informed and at least a lit- tle interested in the subject”. Sadly this is no longer as true as it used to be. Nowadays, TV critics who wish to keep their jobs must write primarily for the editors who have the power to hire and fire. In the end, perhaps Purser adopted some of the political or social attitudes of the right-wing papers that employed him. Cer- tainly he refrains from anything but glanc- ing blows at the vindictive and destructive Thatcherite dogma used to ensure that, as far as possible, “the best years of our tele- vision” will end with the 90s. In spite of this, Purser's book essentially shows him to be an independent and open-minded scep- tic who has never succumbed easily to any shade of received opinion. He writes, for instance, of Hugh Greene occupying “a place of especial suspicion in the Telegraph demonology and therefore special esteem in my pantheon”, “Was it all a waste of time, thirty-odd years I spent watching and nagging?”, Purser finally asks himself. His book answers the question in style. His recogni- tion of quality, and his dismissal of the meretricious, are seen to have made their contribution to “the best years”. His cam- paigns, such as the plea that television drama should not be imitation cinema (or theatre) but itself, deserve more attention than they have received. Alegend in his time: was Jean Renoir driven by a fear of failure inherited from his Impressionist painter father? Great and good Ginette Vincendeau Jean Renoir: Projections of Paradise Ronald Bergan, Bloomsbury, £17.99, 372pp “The greatest of all directors” (Orson Welles). “The greatest film-maker in the world” (Francois Truffaut). These superla- tives, quoted on the jacket of Ronald Bergan's book on Jean Renoir, inform its approach. Bergan also espouses the view of André Bazin and early Cahiers du cinéma that with true auteurs, the biographical merges with the filmic. Many books on Renoir’s films — for instance, those by Leo Braudy, Raymond Durgnat and Alexandre Sesonske - follow this line, and Renoir himself has substantially contributed to the formation of his ‘legend’ with Renoir, My Father and My Life and My Films, as well as collected letters, interviews and essays. Thus Bergan’s claim that his is the first full-scale biography of Renoir written in English is both strictly true and not entirely candid. It also conve- niently bypasses Célia Bertin’s excellent biography published in French in 1986, now translated into English. Bergan clearly went to considerable lengths to track down Renoir’s relatives and friends. This does not, however, make up for his endorsement of the most clichéd aspects of the Renoir myth. Among these is the legacy of his Impressionist painter father — “{he] drank deeply of his father’s pantheism”, and so on. Auguste Renoir's significance becomes, in Bergan’s book, tau- tological. Renoir pére is both the point of origin of his son's creativity and the end result of his film (“He was to come much closer to his father’s vision by painting with the camera”). A more interesting angle is suggested by the remark of Jean Renoir's first wife, Catherine Hessling, that “[Auguste] was so afraid that Jean would be a failure... it was Jean's fear of failure that struck me” Hessling may be biased, since Jean left her when his career took off with La Chienne, but must be less so than Bergan (and _ his sources) are towards her. She was, we are told, not only a bad actress, ambitious, friv- olous and promiscuous, but also a bad mother. Fortunately, after Marguerite Houllé-Renoir, his editor-companion during the 30s, Jean found Dido, his Brazilian sec- ond wife, a self-effacing woman happy to devote her life to him. Bergan is similarly conventional when it comes to assessing Renoir’s cinematic tech- nique and status, casting him as a director dedicated to artistic freedom, whose films “would be committed to higher ideals than the making of money” (there is no mention here of the inherited wealth which facili- tated such aspirations). Along with a few other lofty individuals - Renoir pére, von Stroheim and Chaplin ~ Renoir is presented as a genius who struggled against “the quicksands of Hollywood conventions”, unconnected to French cinematic tradition. The book includes a filmography, a short bibliography and an index, and is sparsely illustrated. Spelling and editing of French words leave something to be desired - par- ticularly the bizarre and inaccurate infor- mation that French Cancan is pronounced “Franche Concon” by the French. Down market down under Steven Barnett Rupert Murdoch William Shawcross, Chatto and Windus, £18.99, 616pp The charge against this book - made most vigorously by Frances Wheen and echoed by others - is that William Shawcross “went native”. Despite his reputation for robust and independent writing, he was seduced during his five years of research into the Murdoch phenomenon by the charm and energy of his subject. His book is certainly not a hostile por- trait. There is more than a hint of admira- tion in Shawcross’ description of the Wap- ping revolution, the clandestine operation that preceded the mass sacking of printers, and the sense of liberation felt by many journalists and all proprietors. And there are times — in the accounts of the launch of his American Fox network, of Sky TV, of the Australian newspaper - when the spirit of a freewheeling, gambling buccaneer takes precedence over less sympathetic possible interpretations. But this is no panegyric either. Through- out the book, particularly when it deals with the early stages of empire accumula- tion, there are detailed and unflattering accounts of the bullying, deceit, manipula- tion and broken promises which charac- terised Murdoch's acquisitive programme. There are also graphic accounts of how newspapers and television stations have been, with rare exceptions, driven relent- lessly down-market in order to raise circula- tion and viewing figures. Three themes are discernible. First is the contempt Murdoch has demonstrated > SIGHT AND SOUND 37 |2 4 for governments, regulations or ‘inde- pendent’ directors who seek to protect the public interest in the cultural industries. The Australian Broadcasting Tribunal, the Federal Communications Commission in the US, the directors of The Times and the old Independent Broadcasting Authority in the UK have all fallen victim to the Murdoch determination to steamroller restrictions on media ownership. They have invariably been outsmarted or - more dangerously - have allowed themselves to be beguiled by assurances of benign intent. When Murdoch is forced to concede, he wreaks revenge. Shawcross presents us with a penetrating account of how desperate Murdoch was to keep the New York Post as well as his newly acquired television station in New York. This was prohibited by FCC regulations, but a series of waivers and delaying tactics allowed him to hang on. When Senator Edward Kennedy finally defeated him with a Senate amendment, the Murdoch titles were set loose and took every opportunity to raise the spectre of Chappaquiddick. The second theme is Murdoch's aversion to serious investigative or challenging jour- nalism. He is contemptuous of those who seek to expose corruption or wrongdoing in high places and, says Shawcross, “believed that Watergate-type investigations were not the purpose of journalism" His brand of journalism is aimed at the soft target, the private citizen who has little protection against the ravages of a tabloid press. Shawcross remarks on the determina- tion of Murdoch's wife, Anna, to protect her family’s privacy, and does not ignore the irony: “They were able to protect them- selves much more effectively than the vic- tims of her husband's papers”. When Mur- doch does attempt to upset the established order, it is again soft targets which bear the brunt: the monarchy, the BBC, but nothing which might require an investment of resources in detailed investigation or com- mitted campaigning. Thirdly, there is his political fundamen- talism and the enormous influence he wields throughout the world. The message is an unequivocal, arch-Conservative ideol- ogy which Murdoch delivers - as one of his ex-editors succinctly put it - “by phone and by clone” It is rabidly free market, unap- ologetically anti-gay, often fascist, and is reinforced with annual meetings at Aspen, Colorado where the loyal lieutenants are - in Shawcross’ words - “fitted out with uniforms..., inspired and invigorated and sent back to their commands filled... with renewed loyalty to their commander in chief” This book reveals how the political power wielded through Murdoch's editors has helped to shore up the ideological right in all three of his operating continents. News Corporation did not just epitomise the 80s, but helped to create the mood of the Reagan-Thatcher era: selfish, brash, and deaf to society's failures. Shawcross’ final pages are an unconvinc- ing attempt at fence-sitting. Nevertheless, in 600 eminently readable pages, he has amassed a body of evidence which demon- strates the awesome level of influence exer- cised by one man in an increasingly infor- mation-driven world. That this portrait is presented in a neutral, slightly adulatory, tone makes it all the more chilling. 38/2 SIGHT AND SOUND Readers digest Martin Davidson Reading Ads Socially Robert Goldman, Routledge, £13.99, 247pp Reading Ads Socially tells us that perfume ads can be sexist, ads for McDonald's have a lot of schmaltz, and it is characteristic of hege- monic discourse to self-reflexively reconsti- tute itself in commodified acts of interpre- tative sublation (i.e. Coke Is It). It’s that language problem again, where academic jargon leads to bathos. There are two tests for this genre of social studies media analysis. The first is to count the number of times the author quotes undigested chunks of Judith Williamson's influential Decoding Advertisements. Robert Goldman does so thirty-five times, not as a springboard to new ideas that have emerged in the past fifteen years, but in obeisance to the Urtext. The second is the Rubik's Cube test. That is, construct a para- graph by combining the fifth sentence (or ninth, or thirty-first) from five consecu- tive pages to see if it makes any difference: “Escalating emphasis on the symbolic properties or psychological utility of goods represents a qualitative change in the com- modity form. The commodity form univer- salises social relations. The dance of com- modities begins as commodity self encounters commodity self. A commodity must enter into formal relationship of equivalence with other commodities, Money facilitates commodification because it serves as a universal economic equivalent to express the value of all other commodi- ties’. The last two sentences follow one another, while the first three are plucked at random; but they make as much sense in this, or any other order. The practical criticism of individual ads does lighten the gloom a little. The book attempts to analyse the way in which the infinite number of social values available to an advertiser is only ever used to promote a single idea, namely the indispensability of the product and, in a larger context, the indispensability of capitalism. An example would be the co-opting of feminism from politics and turning it into lifestyle ‘brand’ values, thereby sanitising the threat posed to patriarchy and capitalism. The author is preoccupied with the paradox (or self- contradiction) that haunts advertising, whereby companies must use the quicksil- ver tricks of persuasion because they can- not coerce us to buy their products. This attempt to control the uncontrollable offers up a political parallel; both democracy and advertising offer the illusion of participation and reciprocity of the individual. This in turn confirms the contention that advertis- ing is “hegemonic”, that is, up to its neck in lubricating the smooth operation of indi- vidual-crushing capitalism. Most advertisements work on an implicit level; as texts they deliberately appear transparent and undermotivated. Conse- quently, they are ripe for interpretation and deconstruction; their possible meanings extend way beyond themselves. Goodman's book achieves the reverse; with its larded prose, its turgid structure, its woeful over explicitness, it ends up, perversely, offering the thinnest of reads. shorts Walter Forde in ‘What Next?’, one of the missing British gems sought by the National Film Archive The Scorsese Picture: The Art and Life of Martin Scorsese David Ehrenstein, Birch Lane Press, $30, 254pp Lavishly illustrated with rare blackand- white photographs and production stills from Scorsese's private archives, this vol- ume is more than the coffee-table picture book it appears to be. Detailed critical analy- sis of key movies combined with interview material and commentary by the director himself build up a fascinating perspective on his complex, multi-layered movies and on his working methods. The last chapter offers a fly-on-the-wall glimpse of editor Thelma Schoonmaker and Scorsese com- pleting Cape Fear. The book also includes a comprehensive filmography that lists TV commercials and unrealised projects. West of Everything: The Inner Life of Westerns Jane Tompkins, Oxford University Press, £15, 245pp Literary critic Tompkins takes a personal look at Western novels and movies, probing the myths of masculinity they work through. She maintains that Westerns orig- inated as a reaction against popular women's novels and women's invasion of the public sphere, as men attempted to reclaim cultural territory from sentimental domestic literature. A lively, provocative and sympathetic book, somewhat marred by limiting its arguments to too narrow a range of films. The Cinema in France: After the New Wave Jill Forbes, Macmillan/BFI, £12.99, 337pp A study of contemporary French cinema which sets out to demonstrate the richness and variety of art film, discussing the work of eleven post-Nouvelle Vague film-makers, among them Agnés Varda, Marguerite Duras, Philippe Garrel, Maurice Pialat, André Techiné and Bertrand Blier. Forbes argues that these auteurs share a desire to change cinema rather than society, a per- spective intimately linked to the events of May ‘68, The book includes filmographies and a bibliography. Hollywood's Overseas Campaign: The North Atlantic Movie Trade, 1920-1950 lan Jarvie, Cambridge University Press, £40, 473pp Jarvie examines how Hollywood movies became one of the most successful US exports after the First World War. Focusing on Canada and the UK, he shows how resis- tance to US cultural invasion was largely motivated by special interest groups who considered themselves entitled to some of the profits of the Hollywood industry. These efforts failed because of lack of capi- tal, mismanagement and audience resis- tance. Jarvie has trawled a mass of primary material to produce this fascinating history. Allen Eyles and David Meeker (eds), BFI Publishing, £14.95, 107pp The National Film Archive's selection of 100 British movies which have ‘gone missing’ and which the NFA would like to retrieve and preserve. They range from Michael Powell's twelve ‘quota quickies’ to Errol Flynn's first film appearance in Britain and three early Bernard Vorhaus features. This beautifully produced volume is a plea to collectors everywhere to unlock their cupboards and scour their shelves in the interests of recovering and preserving our national cinematic heritage. in soa oe Cake Jol audience of dedicated FILM PRODUCTION COURSE Shoot a film under the supervision of top professionals at London’s major production centre. Prominent Studios is the only feature film production centre offering training. The “Future in Films” course comprises of eight, intense, evening sessions and a Sunday, During this time you will learn the essential aspects of film making by writing and shooting your own production with other students. The course is open to all ages and abilities. Previous experience is useful, but not necessary. POST-COURSE WORKSHOP On successful completion of the course, you may join the “Network” Workshop. This will give you access to the equipment, facilities and advice which is available at Prominent Studios. The Network will enable you, with other students, to make your own productions. Contact: Course Unit, Prominent Studios, 68a Delancy St, London NW1 7RY. Tel: 071 284 0242 CEDDO i in association with The British Film Institute and Channel 4 Television presents SCREENWRITE Change of Address For all advertising enquiries and to reach an A screenplay development programme for Black writers. The programme aims to develop a number of ideas into screenplays for television or film production. Applications are invited from both new and experienced writers with contact 7 ey Original ideas. Selection will be based on the submission of story outlines. HUCKSTERS who are now at l i i film enthusiasts i j | For further information and j application form contact: Riseden, Tidebrook, The Associate Producer SCREENWRITE Wadhurst, East Sussex CEDDO FILM/VIDEO LTD TNS5 6PA South Tottenham Education or call us on ] and Training Centre Braemar Road 0892 874804 i LONDON N15 SEU | Tel: 081 802 9034 Application deadline: 26th February 1993. (Fax 0892 784796) UNIVERSITY PRESS INDIANA REFRAMING JAPANESE CINEMA Authorship, Genre, History Arthur Nolletti, Jr., and David Desser (eds. ) Reframing Japanese Cinema is the first book in English to cover the spectrum of Japanese film. The volume is divided into three sections. “Authorship” provides a detailed analysis of such masters as Kurosawa, Ozu, Mizoguchi, Oshima, and Gosho Heinosuke. “Genre” explores some of Japan's most celebrated styles as well as two forms largely unfamiliar to Western audiences: the war film and the comedy (kigeki). “History” sheds new light on a variety of topics: cinema prior to 1915, early “talkies”, katsuben (live narrators of silent film), and the “decorative” classicism of the 1930s and early 1940s. January 1993 384pp 0 253 207231 Paperback £15.99 0 253 34108 6 Hardback £32.50 NONFICTION FILM: A Critical History (Revised and Expanded) Richard Barsam Nontiction Film: A Critical History covers almost one hundred years in the worldwide development of the nonfiction film, from the first factual films of 1895 to the cinema of the 1980s. All the important nonfiction film movements — the factual film, exploration film, cinéma vérité, tilm on art, films of the developing countries, and contemporary women’s lesbian and gay liberation films — are discussed, as are outstanding nonfiction filmakers, including Auguste and Louis Lumiére, Thomas A. Edison, Dziga Vertov, Esther Shub, Alexander Dovzhenko, Alberto Cavalcanti, Robert Flaherty, John Grierson, Pare Lorentz, Joris Ilvens, Henri Storck, Leni Riefenstahl, Frank Capra, Willard Van Dyke, Alain Resnais, Robert Drew, Richard Leacock, D. A. Pennebaker, Frederick Wiseman, Marcel Ophuls, Emile De Antonio, and Albert and David Maysles. More than 2,000 films are examined, many in unprecedented detail. January 1993 480pp 0 253 20706 1 Paperback £21.99 0 253 31124 1 Hardback £57.50 REPRESENTING REALITY Issues and Concepts in Documentary Bill Nichols Representing Reality is the first book to offer a conceptual over-view of documentary filmmaking practice. It addresses numerous social issues and how they are presented to the viewer by means of style, rhetoric, and narrative technique. The volume poses questions about the relationship of the documentary tradition to power, the body, authority, knowledge, and our experience of history. June 1992 353pp 0 253 20681 2 Paperback £14.99 0 253 34060 8 Hardback £32.50 AFRICAN CINEMA Politics and Culture Manthia Diawara Manthia Diawara provides an insider's account of the history and current status of African cinema. Drawing on history, political science, economics, and cultural studies, he discusses such issues as film production and distribution, and film aesthetics from the colonial period to the present. The book traces the growth of African cinema to the efforts of pioneer filmmakers such as Paulin Soumanou Vieyra, Oumarou Ganda, Jean-René Débrix, Jean Rouch and Ousmane Sembéne, the Pan-African Filmmakers’ Organization (FEPACI), and the Ouagadougou Pan-African Film Festival (FESPACO). June 1992 192pp 0 253 20707 X Paperback £9.99 0253 317045 Hardback £25.00 SCREENPLAYS OF THE AFRICAN AMERICAN EXPERIENCE Phyllis Rauch Klotman (ed.) Six independent African American filmmakers, including Charles Burnett, director of the film To Sleep with Anger, are represented in this collection by screenplays produced from 1973 to 1989. They speak in their own voice, a black voice which has resisted the cultural dominance of Hollywood. 1991 280pp 0 253 20633 2 Paperback £12.99 0 253 33145 5 Hardback £32.50 CELTIC COURT, 22 BALLMOOR, BUCKINGHAM, MK18 1XW TELEPHONE: (0280) 823388 FAX: (0280) 823233 [EVIEWS Reviews, synopses and full credits for all the month's new films 40|2 SIGHT ANDSOUND | Bad Lieutenant USA1992 Certificate 18 Distributor Guild Films Production Company Pressman Films Executive Producers Ronna B. Wallace Patrick Wachsberger Producers Edward R. Pressman Mary Kane Co-producer Randall Sabusawa Line Producer Diana Phillips Production Supervisor Peter Pastorelli Production Co-ordinator Jennifer Roth Unit Production Manager Diana Phillips Unit Manager Denis Hann Location Manager Tony Kono Casting New York Meredith Jacobson Los Angeles: Kimba Hills Extras: Laura Gillis Assistant Directors Drew Rosenberg Noga Isackson Screenplay Zoe Lund Abel Ferrara Director of Photography Ken Kelsch In colour 24 Frame Playback Equipment Howard Weiner Video Playback Operator Tom Zafian Editor Anthony Redman Production Designer ‘Charles Lagola Set Decorator Stephanie Carroll Set Dressers Robert Covelman Additional: Diane Lederman Music Joe Delia Costume Design David Sanaryn Wardrobe Supervisors Winsome McKoy Anita Ellis Make-up Artist Joe Cuervo Supervising Sound Editor Gonzo ‘Sound Editors Clancy Trourman Jim Koford Dennis Dutton Alan Shultz Randy Tomlin Foley Editor Chuck Simmons Sound Recordists Michael Barosky Foley: Albert Gomez. Sound Re-recordists Tom Ruff James Williams Foley Artists Casey Crabtree Bess Steele Baseball Adviser Josh Blum Production Assistants Art Department: Rachel Talbot Matt Galvin Erik Ferrar Key Set Roni Ber-Nevat Set: Mike Tracey Jennifer Taback Peter Millerman Wendy Damon Dave Burns Los Angeles: Lori Gottlieb Grace Griffith Bruce Hofert Daniel Posener Stunts Phil Nelson Cast Harvey Keitel Lieutenant Brian McElroy Lieutenant's Sons Pegay Gormley Lieutenant's Wife Stella Keitel Lieutenant's Daughter Victor Argo Bet Cop Paul Calderone Leonard Thomas Cops Anthony Ruggiero Lite Shawn McLean John Steven Jones Black Kids Vincent Laresca jc Robin Burrows Ariane Victoria Bastell Bowtay G. Elvis Phillips Young Cop Stephen Chen Korean Store Owner Fernando Velez Julio Joseph Michael Cruz Paulo Frankie Thorn Nun Frank Adonis Large Paul Hipp Jesus Lambert Moss Veronica Nicholas DeCegii Limelight Guide Larry Mullane Mike Fella Mike Ciravolo Detectives Zoe Lund Zoe Bo Diet! Detective Bo Gene Canfield irish Cop Heather Bracken Nurse Penny Allen Doctor Eddie Daniels Jersey Girl/Passenger Bianca Bakiia Jersey Girl/Driver Ed Kovens Monsignor Jamie Sanchez Priest Minnie Gentry Elderly Woman traida Polanco Momiacita John Cloghessy Chris “Mad Dog” Russo Voice Over Announcers Warner Fusselle Play by Play Announcer 8,647 feet ‘96 minutes ) The Bad Lieutenant works for the NYPD. His addiction to crack, heroin and alcohol have led him into debt, from which he hopes to escape by betting on the Dodgers baseball team in the National Championship Series. When the Dodgers lose a key game, the Lieutenant is unable to settle his debts and persuades his bookie instead to double his stakes for the next game. The Lieutenant takes out his frustra- tion by sexually harassing female members of the public, and getting high with a junkie girlfriend. When a nun is beaten and raped in a local church by two young thugs who also steal holy sacraments, a reward of $50,000 offered by the Catholic mafia lures the Lieutenant. He pursues the nun, and overhears her holy confes- sion in which she reveals that she knows the identity of her assailants. But the nun refuses to answer ques- tions about their identity, preferring to forgive them for their crime. Incensed by her intransigence, and rav- aged with despair, the Lieutenant col- lapses before the church’s altar, and is visited by a vision of Christ. Emerging from his stupor, he wakes to find an old woman returning to the church the golden chalice stolen during the rape. She leads him to a nearby hous- ing project where he confronts the rapists; on television, the Mets/Dodgers game, on which the Lieutenant's hopes rest, begins. The Lieutenant shares a pipe of crack with his prisoners before delivering them to the downtown bus station and putting them on a coach out of town, making them swear never to return to New York. The Lieutenant drives to a rendezous with his bookie as the game reaches a climax: Dodgers hero Strawberry is at bat, and could win the game with a home run, As the ball is played, the Lieutenant is shot dead from a passing car. » After the relative gloss of The King of New York, this terrifyingly powerful film seems at first glance to mark a return to Ferrara’s early days as an underground film-maker. Like The Driller Killer, the style of Bad Lieutenant is ragged and punky: from the opening credits, consisting of harsh typeface crudely emblazoned upon a blank background with no accompanying theme music, Ferrara deliberately dis- tances his latest film from the cosy con- ventions of the mainstream. Extensive use of a hand-held camera and numer- ous sparsely edited sequences create a documentary-like quality reminiscent of the director's long-banned debut. Similar too is the unresolved narra- tive which sets up wrong-doers for punishment, but then denies the audi- ence the cathartic release of seeing them put to justice. Just as The Driller Killer ends with a haunting close-up on the eye of the giant bull painted by the unpunished murderer (we are left, as Martin Barker points out, “in the eye of the storm”), so Bad Lieutenant frustrates the desire for closure by allowing the rapists to go free. The satisfying black satire of the rape-revenge cult hit Ms. 45/Angel of Vengeance (devised by and starring Bad Lieutenant co-writer Zoe Tamerlis, aka Lund) is entirely absent here. Instead, the audience is deliber- ately left disorientated and uneasy. It is ironic therefore that, despite such an apparently disruptive format, Bad Lieutenant has a classical narrative more akin to Ferrara’s reworking of Romeo and Juliet in China Girl than to any of his other less mainstream films. While the structure and style hark back to the amorality of Ferrara’s earliest work, the story itself is almost biblical, an unashamed tale of the redemption, via divine intervention, of one who has fallen from grace. Throughout the film, the Lieutenant punctuates his sins (drug taking, sex- ual harassment, stealing, cheating, avarice) with mournful pleas for God to save his miserable soul. In one sequence, played to the hilt by Keitel in a shockingly brilliant performance, the drug-addled cop stands naked before the camera, arms outstretched in Christ-like pose, howling like a dog begging to be put down, Only when he subjugates himself before the altar is redemption finally offered, in the shape of the chalice which Jesus him- self appears to deliver, Empowered by this grail, and led by the nun's exam- ple, the Lieutenant performs a single, saving act of forgiveness, made all the more worthy by the pain which this act causes him. Thus redeemed, he is swiftly removed from the horrors of earthly life, shot dead by a bullet which could itself be interpreted as divinely driven, The extreme religious orthodoxy of such a narrative may give Ferrara fans cause for concern, for despite the on- screen depravity (it is hard to imagine a more hideous spectacle than that of the Lieutenant mouthing obscenities while frenziedly masturbating over two young female offenders), Bad Lieu- tenant is ultimately a paean to the virtues of true Catholicism. Like The | Exorcist, the film frequently seems to revel in obscenity, but remains draped throughout in the pious clothing of the priesthood. Small wonder, then. that the BBFC have passed Bad Lieu- tenant uncut, for although it is visually visceral, its narrative heart is palatably spiritual. Meanwhile, The Driller Killer, which almost ten years ago was declared obscene on video-tape by the DPP, still awaits certification. Mark Kermode Damage ! Wan in love: Jeremy Irons, Juliette Binoche United Kingdom/France 1992 Director: Louis Malle Certificate Costume Design 18 Milena Canonero Distributor Wardrobe Supervisor Entertainment Richard Pointing Production Companies Chief Make-up Artists Skreba (London) Linda Devetta NEF/Le Studio Canal Louise Constad Plus (Parts) Titles In association with Mike Dempsey Channel 4/European Sound Editor Co-Production Fund Eddy Joseph Producer Sound Recordist Louis Malle Jean-Claude Laureux Co-producers Dolby stereo Vincent Malle Sound Re-recordist Simon Relph Robin O'Donoghue Production Co-ordinator Janine Lodge Cast Production Managers Jeremy Irons Donna Grey Stephen Fleming France: Juliette Binoche Jean Yves Asselin Anna Barton Location Managers Miranda Richardson Rachel Neale Ingrid Fleming France: Rupert Graves | Stephanie Seilhean Martyn Fleming Casting Lestie Caron Patsy Pollock Elizabeth Prideaux Assistant Directors. tan Bannen Michel Ferry Edward Lloyd Cordelia Hardy Gemma Clarke Jolyon Symonds Sally Fleming Screenplay Peter Stormare David Hare Peter Based on the novel by Julian Fellowes Josephine Hart Donald Lindsay Director of Photography Roger Liewellyn Peter Biziow Palmer Colour Susan Engel Technicolor Miss Snow Camera Operators Raymond Gravel Mike Proudfoot Raymond France: Joff Nuttall Mare Konninckx Trevor Leigh Davies Steadicam Operator Jason Morrell Mare Konninckx Young Man at Sothebys Opticals Barry Stearn Chris King Prime Minister's Aide Editor Tony Doyle John Bloom. Prime Minister Production Designer Linda Delapena Brian Morris Beth Art Directors Henry Power Richard Ear) Henry France: Francine Stock Philippe Turlure TV Interviewer Set Decorators Benjamin Whitrow J Quertier Civil Servant France: David Thewlis Michel Grimaud Detective Music ‘Simon De Deney Zbigniew Preisner Young Man at DTT Music Director Luc Etienne Wosciech Michniewski Lutetia Receptionist Music Performed By Synfonia Varsovia 10,015 feet 111 minutes Dr Stephen Fleming is a success- ful Conservative junior minister who is secure in his family life with his wife Ingrid, journalist son Martyn and younger daughter Sally. He meets Mar- tyn’s new girlfriend Anna Barton at a party and they are immediately attracted; but when Martyn brings Anna to meet his parents, she and Stephen pretend they have never met. At a dinner to celebrate Martyn’s pro- motion on his newspaper, Anna describes her brother Aston’s suicide. Later, Anna tells Stephen that Aston killed himself over his love for her, a fact that explains her fear of posses- siveness. Stephen leaves a conference in Brussels and takes a train to Paris to see Anna, who is staying in a hotel there with Martyn; she joins him and they make love in a doorway. Back in London, Stephen tells Anna he will leave Ingrid, but she refuses to end her relationship with Martyn, though she wants their affair to con- tinue. At her flat, Stephen encounters Peter, a former lover of Anna's who made love with her the night Aston died. At the country house of Ingrid’s father Edward, a veteran politician, Martyn and Anna announce their engagement; that night, Stephen sneaks into Anna’s bedroom, but is spotted by Sally. Anna’s mother Eliza- beth visits the family and remarks on Martyn’s resemblance to Aston. Aware of Stephen's feelings for Anna, she warns him to step aside. Afraid the affair is about to end, Stephen is increasingly depressed and cannot even become excited at the prospect of a position as Minister of Health. Anna sends him a key to a flat, where he finds a message arranging an assignation with her. On the eve of the wedding, Stephen and Anna make love in the flat, but are interrupted by Mar- tyn. who has accidentally discovered the address. Backing away in shock, Martyn falls over the banisters and is killed; as Stephen rushes down to his son's body, Anna slips away. Rejected by a furious Ingrid, Stephen resigns. He visits Elizabeth, who tells him she tried to warn him, and finds that Anna is hiding in her hotel room, Later, Stephen is living alone in a small French town, reminded of his past only by a blown-up photograph of himself, Anna and Martyn. In his recent book of interviews Malle on Maile, Louis Malle insists that although his films seem to have no common signature, there is a unify- ing thread: the commitment and per- sonal investment he puts into them. With Damage, however, that thread has worn thin: this is worse even than Malle’s creaking caper Crackers, which at least refused to take itself seriously. What is more, to all intents and pur poses, Damage is thematically and visu- ally a David Hare film. Hare’s adaptation of Josephine Hart's slim but portentous airport paperback is very much of a piece with his Strapless and Paris By Night — a state- ofthe-nation Euro-romance that has very little to do with the state of any | recognisable nation but allows him much scope to tut-tut about how the other half loves. Stephen Fleming does what Hare's Conservative Euro-MP did in Paris By Night ~- he goes AWOL from his daily business in the cause of grand passion, and comes a cropper as a result. Where his Paris flit is plausibly presented in the bok, in the film he goes spectacularly over the edge, checking into the lovers’ hotel and gasping in anguish at the sight of them enjoying breakfast together. Hart’s doggedly aphoristic prose style provides few cues for visual elabo- ration, and the main innovation here is to translate Stephen's first-person narrative into Jeremy Irons’ worried expression. Irons should have had his fill of playing self-aware literary agonis- ers ~ his Stephen is a composite of sim- ilar suckers for amour fou in The French Lieutenant’s Woman, Swann in Love and Waterland. It is a lazy piece of casting - Irons is too young for the part, too much the matinée idol to suggest a dogged Tory thrown off course. Binoche is little better, an improba- bly French incarnation of Anna, pre- sumably chosen to imbue the part with European exoticism. Anna is an all-purpose femme fatale desperately conscious of her status, with the result that it is difficult to perceive her any- thing other than a_ self-absorbed poseuse. In any case, the film allows her to be little else than the obscurest imaginable object of desire, a hanger for funereal chic. The sex scenes have already earned the film a reputation as Last Tango in Westminster (and caused certification problems in the US), but they are pretty tame, mainly predi- cated on flashes of stocking top and a patina of half-hearted violence. The Hart novel may have succeeded because of its telegraphic directness and the spiciness of its selling point. Translated into film, it looks all too familiar, Partly, it comes uncomfort- ably close to the early 70s television serial A Bouquet of Barbed Wire, in which Frank Finlay carried off the tormented paterfamilias role with rather more aplomb; and partly, it seems like an inept homage to the poised comedies of manners at which Joseph Losey and Harold Pinter excelled in the 60s. Where Pinter's scripts worked by understatement, Hare spells every- thing out to embarrassing effect - the strolls through the imposingly pho- tographed Whitehall corridors of power, and overloaded moments like Stephen's appearance on television, | rhetorically asking the nation, “When is an image ever the truth?” The only redeeming touches come from Miranda Richardson — investing Ingrid alternately with simmering dig- nity and bruised rage - and from Leslie Caron, going wild as Anna’s mother, a crazed Euro-matron with a touch of all- seeing sibyl. Otherwise, the film commits the cardinal sin of being both risible and dull; such lurid subject matter at least deserves something more flashy than the dour blue-grey light in which this London is steeped. Jonathan Romney ae ae Deep Cover 7 USA1992_ Director: Bi Duke Certificate 18 Distributor First Independent Production Company Image Organisation Exceutive Producer David Streit Michael DeLuca Producer Pierre David Co-producers Henry Bean Deborah Moore Production Executive Cindy Hornickel Production Co-ordinator Alexandra M. Baum Unit Production Manager Margaret Fannin Location Managers Rick Rothen Curtis L. Collins Michael O'Brien Post-production Supervisor Pam Winn 2nd Unit Directors Conrad Palmisano Greg Elam Casting Chemin Bernard Associate: Kim Hardin Extras; Cenex Julie Calman Carisa Blix Jerry Ziesmer Hope Goodwin Warren R. Turner Sandra Middleton Robert Scott Patricia Dyer 2nd Unit: Sandra Middleton Willie Simmons Jnr Rodney Hooks Screenplay Henry Bean Michael Tolkin Director of Photography Bojan Bazelli In colour 2nd Unit Photography Frank Holgate Camera Operators Henry Lynk 2nd Unic Steve Holgate Video Effects Will Fowler Editor John Carter Production Designer Pam Warner Art Director Daniel W. Bickel Set Decorator Donald Elmblad Set Dresser Michael J, Vukelich Lead Scenic Artist Michael T. Daigle ‘Scenic Artist Ben Everson Storyboard Artist Darryl Henley ‘ Special Effects Fexco Corporation Frank Ceglia Costume Design Arline Burks-Gant duellyn Harper Costumers Key: Caroline Cunningham Set: Carolyn Leone Make-up Artists Christina Criswell Suzanne Parker Sanders and Unit: Douglas Noe Special Make-up Effects Suzanne Parker Sanders Sound Recordist Tony Smyles Advisers Technical: Revalyn T. Golde Police Technical; Karl Amerlin Production Assistants Office: Katty McDonald Jones Rhonda Rawlings Key Set: Ashley Tyler Alexander J, Hennech LaVern Whitt Gilbert Barnhardt Cindy Margulies Tyrone Townsend Jordan Stone 2nd Unie: Jesse D. Goins Dan Pasternack Rhonda Super Stunt Co-ordinator Greg Ham Stand-ins Morrie Lubezik Stinson Duvall! (Jason) Jeff Bradford Henry Carbo Heywood Galbreath Marianne Lewis Tyrone Turner Cast Larry Fishburne John Q, Hull Betty McCutcheon Chartes Martin Smith Carver Sydney Lassick Gopher Clarence Wiliams Ili Taft Gregory Sierra Barbosa Roger Guenweur Smith Eddie Julio Oscar Mechoso Hernandez ‘Alex Colon Molto Erik Kilpatrick ND Dealer Joseph Ferro: James Tyrie Tarmer Roberto Santana Dealers Sandra Gould Blonde Woman Miranda Bruce Barbour Policeman Yvette Heyden Nancy James T. Morris Ivy Det Jef Bartender Arthur Mendoza Gallegos Harry Frazier Lunatic Santa Ron Thompson Guard Cory Curtis Russell Jnr Gtynn Terman Russell Sar Rene Asso Guzman Donald Bishop Judge Lisa Thayer Bailiff SIGHT ANDSOUND 41|2 Eleva Singleton Tony Perez Reporter Guzman's Lawyer John Boyd West David Weixelbaum Cal Tech Chino Vicellous Shannon Jonathan Scott Young Dealer Rapper John Messall Bilal Bashir Ed Cambridge Rapper's Musician Crackheads James Encinas Ric Mancini Guzman's Guard Congressman Neil Goldberg, Anna Berger Dealer in Suit Congresswoman Paunita Nichols Tony Trevino Jacqueline Priest Tyrone Townsend Lionel Mathews Street Hustler Winston Revalyn T. Golden Clifton Powell Hull's Attorney Leland Nick Latour Jaime Cardiche Republican Shark Congressman Dennis Lee Kelty Mike Radner Lawyer Gary Locke Johm Shepherd Coroners Undercover Cop Haywood Galbreath Victoria Angulo Man in Restroom Torch Singer J, Wi, Semith 9,561 feet Video Dealer 106 minutes Cleveland, 1972, During a snow- storm, a young boy, Russell Stevens, waits while his drug addict father attempts to rob a liquor store so that he can buy Christmas pre- sents. Before the boy’s eyes, he is shot and killed, Cincinatti, 1992. Drug Enforcement Agency officer Carver selects the adult Stevens from a number of black police officers to go undercover in the drugs world, Working as John Q Hull, Stevens arrives in Los Angeles, and begins mak- ing small drug buys to get close to Eddie, who supplies street dealers. When Eddie attempts to rip Stevens off in a larger deal and betray him to the police, Stevens meets Eddie's superiors, lawyer David Jason and Felix Barbosa, the outfit'’s Colombian connection. Felix beats Eddie to death with a pool cue, and Stevens is brought into the organisation to replace him. Jason slowly involves Stevens in his own plan to create a legal designer drug that will make them both rich. When Stevens brings Carver two kilograms of cocaine, Carver tells him he does not have the budget to make that kind of buy, and advises Stevens to keep deal- ing. Discovering a talent for crime, Stevens moves up in the underworld, learning how money is laundered, and murdering a rival dealer who wants his turf. He also discovers a lethal ten- sion between Jason and Barbosa, who is setting up the partners for a bust. Stevens narrowly averts the bust, dur- ing which Jason shoots Barbosa, Bar- bosa’s death leads to the partners’ meeting Gallegos, the Colombian whom Carver had designated as the next step up the ladder, and nephew to Guzman, a Colombian politician whom the State Department was eager to see smeared. A confrontation leaves the Colom- bian dead, but Stevens discovers the priorities have changed - the State Department now favours Guzman, and there will be no move against him. Stevens resigns, and he and Jason set up a meeting with Guzman, who wants the $20 million that Gallegos had been carrying and which is now in the partners’ possession. Stevens and Jason are tailed to the meeting by Taft, . 42|2 SIGHT ANDSOUND an old, earnest police officer who had earlier arrested Stevens and tried to show him the error of his ways. Guz- man agrees to finance Jason's synthetic cocaine plan when Taft, without backup, decides to break up the meet- ing. The Colombians leave, and Taft is shot by Jason. Stevens reveals his true identity to Jason, whose response is “So what?” Stevens shoots Jason. Finally, testifying before a government com- mittee, Stevens confirms the success of the operation, but smears Guzman, against his superiors’ wishes. When trying to place Deep Cover as a movie, a reliance on tradi- tional auteurism is bound to lead us astray. Director Bill Duke (A Rage in Harlem) does not have a profile in any real sense, but the screenwriters Henry Bean (Internal Affairs) and Michael Tolkin (The Player, The Rapture) do. Their films are about outwardly- directed characters seeking to define an overwhelming emptiness. In The Player, studio executive Griffin Mill is an empty suit, without values or ideas, whose one defining act is the murder he commits, In The Rapture, the Mimi Rogers character chooses self- definition through Jesus, which leaves her bereft when her beliefs betray her. Andy Garcia's cop in Internal Affairs has consciously emptied himself of his His- panic heritage in an effort to assimilate himself into the Los Angeles Police Department, but can only find himself when roused by the mirror image of an endlessly corrupt villain. In Deep Cover, Stevens has built his entire life on the attempt to be nothing like his drug addict father. His retreat into police work simply provides a structure for curbing his darker impulses, which are unleashed when he is turned loose to be a drug dealer. As he says in the film's poetic voice- over narration, “Being a cop was never this easy”, The premise of Deep Cover is familiar — cop goes undercover to crack a drug ring, and becomes inexorably involved with the people he is supposed to bust. The unfamiliarity comes from the Infernal affairs: Jeff Goldblum, Larry Fishburne intricate way that the script casts Stevens adrift in an infinity of mirrors, where almost every character he sees peers back as a distorted version of himself. Eddie, the dealer Stevens dis- places, is killed for informing; Stevens too is a police informant. Jason, who becomes his partner, is as tied to Bar- bosa as Stevens is to Carver. The inno- cent child of Belinda, Stevens’ addicted neighbour, mirrors his own childhood (which is why the opening sequence is far from irrelevant). Taft, Carver and Barbosa are all versions of Stevens’ father. If some elements are leaned on too heavily, like the symbolic handful of blood-stained money that Steyens took from his dying father’s hand and deposits on Taft's grave at the end of the film, nevertheless the script fea- tures an unusually high degree of nuanced, layered construction. The film also contains a pair of stun- ning performances. Larry Fishburne - whose wonderful, masklike face becomes increasingly interesting as the mask cracks - gives a breath-tak- ingly assured performance that would surely earn him an Oscar nomination were this a major studio film, And Jeff Goldblum, as the yuppie lawyer/dealer Jason, once again finds a role entirely suited to his odd, hesitant timing and diffident way of occupying space. After two decades when critical orthodoxy has swung away from respectability and towards the disrep- utable pleasures of the genre film, the pendulum seems to be swinging back. Of course, the modest ‘surprises’ one used to find in the cinema's less refined reaches have largely been eliminated. This is the only way to explain the sud- den disappearance from North Ameri- can theatres of Wes Craven's brilliant allegory of Reagan-era America The Peo- ple Under the Stairs, and of Deep Cover. After a decade of dead baby-sitter hor- ror movies, one returns only reluc- tantly to the horror genre. After a decade of increasingly loud and empty police action movies, one hardly knows how to respond to a quiet gem like Deep Cover. John Harkness Dracula USA1992 Director: Francis Ford Coppola Certificate Editors 18 Nicholas C. Smith Distributor Glen Scantlebury Columbia TriStar Anne Goursaud Production Companies. Production Designer American Zoetrope/ Thomas Sanders Osiris Films Art Director For Columbia Pictures Andrew Precht Executive Producers Set Design Michael Apted Joseph Hodges Robert O'Connor Set Decorator Producers Garrett Lewis Francis Ford Coppola Project Conceptualist Fred Fuchs Jim Steranko Charles Mulvehill Production IMustrators Co-producers Peter A. Ramsey James V. Hart Mentor Huebner John Veitch Mike Mignola Associate Producer Sculptures Susie Landau Chief: Production Co-ordinator Jaroslan G. Alfer Pat Chapman Special Mechanical Effects Unit Production Manager Supervisor: Patricia Churchill Michael Lantieri 2nd Unit Director Foreman: Roman Coppola David Blitstein Casting Special Effects Victoria Thomas Foreman: Additional: Darrell D, Pritchett Rick Montgomery Models. Dan Parada Miniature Unit: Dixie Webster Leslie G, Ekker Assistant Directors Puppet Co-ordinator Peter Giuliano Don Lewis Kate Davey Mechanical Puppet Design Martin Jedlicka Fred Spencer 2nd Unit: Main Shadow Design Myers Greg Bell W. Thomas Snyder Shadow Puppeteers Miniature Unit: Don Lewis Dan Coffie Fred Spencer Screenplay Additional Puppeteers James V. Hart Mitchel Evans Director of Photography James Murray Michael Ballhaus Miniature Unit: Bill Neil Colour Technicolor 2nd Unit Director ot Photography Steve Yaconelli Camera Operator David M. Dunlap Joe Ritter Visual Effects Roman Coppola Visual Effects Supervisor Alison Savitch Special Visual Effects Fantasy I Film Effects: Supervisors: Gene Warren Jnr Leslie Huntley Camera Operator: Christopher Warren Optical Supervisor: Betzy Bromberg Matte World: Executive in Charge of Production: Krystyna Demkowicz Matte Artist: Michael Pangrazio Director of Matte Photography: Craig Barron Matte Camera Operator: Wade Childress Colossal Pictures: Producers: Paul Hettler Ellen Erwitt Supervisor: Gary Gutierrez Photography: Don Smith Optical Supervisor: Stuart Cudlitz Additional Visual Effects 4-Ward Productions: V.CE Inc: Pete Kuran Kevin O'Neill Additional Animation; Available Light Lid Van Snowden Mark Bryan Wilson Music Wojciech Kilar Music Performed by Los Angeles Master Chorale Vocal: Diamanda Galas Orchestrations Wojciech Kilar Music Supervisor Katherine Quittner Music Editor Katherine Quittner Songs “Love Song For a Vampire" (Prom ‘Bram Stoker's Dracula’) by and performed by Annie Lennox; “Exeloume” by and performed by Diamanda Galas Eiko Ishioka Wardrobe Men: Eric H. Sandberg Women: Sue Moore Costumers Men: Mitchell Ray Kenney Women Set: Amy Andrews and Unit: Men: Jesse J. Fields Women: Marci R, Johnson Make-up Design Michele Burke Head: Michele Burke Carol Schwartz John Blake Matthew W. Mungle Rick Stratton Hair Design Michele Burke Wigmaker Stuart Artingstall Hairstylists ‘Stunt Co-ordinator Head: Billy Burton Mari Bloom Stunts Josee Normand Bobby Bass Gary Oldman; Ray Bickel Stuart Artingstall Bobby Burns Title Design Hal Burton Gary Gutierrez William H_ Burton Jar Opticats R. J. Chambers Cinema Research Steve Chambers Corporation Tony Epper ‘Special Make-up Effects Tommy Huff Greg Cannom Olay Lilley Sound Design Clint Lilley Leslie Shatz Jiminy Ortega Supervising Sound Editors ‘Tommy Rosales Tom C McCarthy Sven Thorsen David E. Stone Elliott Valderrama Sound Editors Mike Watson Dialogue: Animal Trainer Harry M. Cheney Mark Harden Mark LaPointe Horse Wrangler }.H. Arrufat Corky Randall Supervising ADR Editor David B, Cohn Cast ADR Editors Gary Oldman Linda Folk Dracula Joho 1. Sisti Winona Ryder Supervising Foley Editor Mina Murray/Elisabeta Mark Gordon Anthony Hopkins Foley Editors Professor Abraham Catherine H. LeBaigue Van Helsing Jobn Reynolds Keanu Reeves Cindy Marty Jonathan Harker Sound Recordists Richard E. Grant Robert Janiger Doctor Jack Seward ADR: Cary Elves Jeff Gomillion Lord Arthur Holmwood | Foley: Bill Campbell Jackson Schwartz Quincey P, Morris Dolby stereo ‘Sadio Frost | Sound Re-recordists Lucy Westenra Leslie Shatz Tom Waits Marian Wallace RK. M, Renficld Aaton Rochin Monica Bellucct Dennis Sands Michaela Bercu Sound Effects Editors Florina Kendrick David Williams Dracula’s Brides Sanford Ponder day Robinson Christopher S, Aud Mr Hawkins Gregory C. Stewart 1M, Hobson David Van Slyke Hobbs Mark L. Mangino Laurie Franks American Zoetrope; Lucy's Maid Jim MeKee Maud Winchester Sound Effects Downstairs Maid Additional: Octavian Cadia Alan Howarth Deacon Foley Robert Getz Joe Sabella Priest Zane D. Bruce Dagmar Stanec Consultants Sister Agatha Historical: Eniho Oss Leonard Wolf Sister Sylva Roumanian; Nancy Linehan Charles Florina Kendrick Older Woman Religious: Tatiana ron Furstenberg P. }, Cameron Younger Woman Production Assistants Jules Sylvester Jeremy Alter Hubert Wells Jennifer Good Zoo Keepers Kelly Householder Daniel Newman Heather Noble News Hawker Andrew Peltz Honey Lauren Whitney Pitkanen Judi Diamond Katrina Rivers Peep Show Girls Anne Ress Robert Buckingham jody Spilkoman Husband Chiris Tragos Cully Fredricksen 2nd Linit: Van Helsing’s Assistant Michael Salven Darren Demetre 11,450 feet 127 minutes knight Vlad the Impaler, known as Dracula, returns victorious from battle with Turkish invaders to find his beloved wife Elisabeta, believing him to be dead, has committed suicide. Bereft, Dracula renounces his faith and becomes a vampire. London, 1897. Young Jonathan Harker is despatched by his firm of estate agents to Transyl- vania to finalise a deal with Count Dracula, who is acquiring property in England, On seeing a photograph of Jonathan's fiancée Mina Murray, who resembles his dead wife, the Count per- suades Jonathan to stay in his castle for a month. It soon becomes clear that the young man is being kept prisoner by the vampire and his female con- sorts, while Dracula prepares to move the boxes of earth in which they rest to Carfax Abbey. The boxes are trans- ported on board the Demeter, and as soon as the ship docks in England, Dracula takes on the body of a wolf and homes in on the mansion of Lucy Westenra, the wealthy friend with whom Mina is staying. Lucy couples with the beast Dracula, who visits her regularly. Her pallor and strange behaviour cause one of her suitors, Dr Jack Seward, who runs the Carfax Lunatic Asylum, to call in a specialist, Dr Van Helsing. Dracula, in the form of the hand- some Prince Vlad, approaches Mina in the street. She rejects him at first, but is gradually seduced by his exotic charm. Meanwhile, Van Helsing arrives in time to save Lucy's life with blood transfusions from her admirers, Seward and Quincey Morris, a Texan, and her fiancé Lord Arthur Holmwood. In Transylvania, Jonathan manages to escape from Dracula's castle and takes refuge in a convent, where the nuns send a message to Mina. She decides to go to him, in spite of her feelings for Vlad, who is devastated. Dracula attacks Lucy violently; she dies, but Van Helsing insists that as a vampire she must be ritually destroyed. He, Seward, Morris and Holmwood go to her crypt, where they drive a stake through her heart and cut off her head, Jonathan and Mina, now mar- ried, return to England, where Van Helsing explains that Jonathan, who has not actually tasted vampire blood, is not infected. The three of them go with Morris, Seward and Holmwood to find Dracula's resting place in Carfax Abbey. Mina is secured in Seward’s quarters at the asylum while the men search for Dracula. Dracula as Viad comes to Mina and they drink each other’s blood, pledg- ing eternal love. The others find them and repel the vampire. Van Helsing uses hypnotism on Mina to find out that Dracula is making his way home by sea. The group decide to pursue him by train and destroy him, taking the dying Mina with them, Mina and Van Helsing arrive at the castle first and await the Count, who is racing home in a coach bearing his coffin, with Mor- ris, Seward and Holmwood in pursuit. Dracula's coach arrives as the sun sets. As he emerges from his coffin, Jonathan cuts his throat while Morris Stakes his heart. Holding the men at bay with a gun, Mina accompanies the dying Dracula into his castle, where she kisses him before driving a knife into his heart and decapitating him. The latest in a line of flesh-eat- ing, blood-tasting anti-heroes which includes Hannibal Lecter and Max Cady, Coppola’s Dracula is the most baroque incarnation yet of this fin de siécle phenomenon. Monsters cre- ated by the relentless drive towards ‘civilisation’, by the constant need to demarcate frontiers between past and future, self and other, these creatures hover around the boundaries between the normal and the unacceptable, threatening to penetrate our defences. They become most active at times of crisis, when, as now, history seems to be running backwards and barbarism looms on a global scale. Where confu- sion reigns, terror stalks. Confusion and terror go hand in hand in Coppola's version of Bram Stoker's 1897 novel. The histrionics of Gary Oldman’s virtuoso performance as the shape-shifting disaffected Rou- manian prince with designs on the English bourgeoisie are matched by a barn-storming mise en scéne which sacrifices narrative coherence to a patina of allusions. Michael Ballhaus' camerawork is urgent and uneasy, its most frequent trope a hurtling travel- ling shot which unsettles certainties of time and place. We often cannot tell where we are, who is who, or how and why things happen, The end result lurches between high camp and anxi- ety dream, between Grand Guignol and Goya's Sleep of Reason, The sense of disorientation goes deeper than this. Dracula is, of course, a period costume drama. Much has been made of the film-makers’ intention to remain faithful to Stoker's turn-ofthe century text - to the extent of putting his name above the title. Screenwriter James Hart cites Leonard Wolf's The Annotated Dracula as a primary source, an open invitation to the buffs to spend many a happy obsessional hour comparing this screen version with its predecessors, many of which are referred to in the course of Coppola's movie. Nevertheless, authenticity was evidently the last thing on the film- makers’ minds. Yes, they included scenes from the novel which do not appear in other versions, such as the rings of blue fire encountered by Jonathan Harker as he approaches Dracula’s castle. Yes, they added a prologue to register the fact that Stoker's Dracula was inspired by a his- torical figure, Vlad the Impaler. Yes, they used the novel's diary and letter format as a narrative device, But far from appearing as an Urtext, Stoker's Dracula fades in and out like a palimpsest, scarcely visible through movie-brat braggadocio. Coppola and Hart hit us with a veri- table hailstorm of visual effects, spec- tacular action sequences and literary, cinematic and artistic references, from Kurosawa to Corman, Beardsley to Beauty and the Beast. A fairground atmosphere prevails as we are moved from one sideshow to another, emerg- ing breathless from a chase finale which culminates in a homage to Empire of the Senses as Winona Ryder's Mina skewers and decapitates her vam- pire lover. Pleasurable as all this know- ing bravado is. something is lost. Perhaps unsurprisingly given the influence of Wolf's book, Coppola's movie comes over less as a new version of Stoker's novel than as an annotated commentary on it. The relevance of Stoker’s themes to 1990s audiences is reduced mainly to the transmitting of sexual disease through the blood- stream of young women (Jonathan Harker escapes contamination because he never actually tastes vampire blood, while Renfield can be discounted since his obsession is with insects and small animals), Hart's script makes some attempt to counteract Stoker's misog- yny, stressing the independent spirit of both Mina and Lucy, and portraying Mina as an enlightened New Woman, while the male characters are by and large buffoons. It is masculine igno- | rance and fear as much as feminine weakness and sexual curiosity which allow the invader to enter; and even though a posse of male heroes traps and destroys Dracula in the end, it is the dying Mina who delivers the coup de grace, thus sealing the bond between herself and the threatening Other. Female sexuality is much in evi- dence, not least in the costume and decor, The erotic scene in which Keanu Reeves as Jonathan is swallowed up by a vaginal bed is echoed in the labial folds and furls of the dresses worn by Mina and Lucy. Costume designer Eiko Ishioka excels herself with the sexually precocious Lucy, clothing her in a snake-patterned garment for one scene, a startling crimson nightgown for her encounter with the wolf/Drac- ula in the garden, and, after she joins the Undead, a white wedding dress whose complicated pleats and ruffs uncannily evoke a Noh Theatre ghost. Costume and make-up provide a fur- ther link between Dracula and the women, Unlike the other male charac- ters, the Count in his different in- carnations is self-consciously ‘dressed’, | ‘made-up’ and his hair ‘done’ Usually portrayed as a phallic figure, here he is distinctly feminised and the empha- sis is on his orality (it is noticeable, for instance, that all the erotic sequences feature oral sex), When the ancient vampire first meets Jonathan he wears a scarlet train extending like a tongue behind him and sports a decorative butterfly wig and long plait. Later, as the exotic Prince Vlad attempting to seduce Mina, his hair is arranged in dark locks reaching halfway down his back. A similar ambiguity haunts Drac- ula’s ethnicity. Originating in the ‘East’, he is a Fu Manchu for our times, a harbinger of disease and disorder man- ifesting himself in creeping mists which threaten miscegenation. In focusing on the love story between Mina and Prince Vlad, Coppola and Hart have skirted the issue of Oriental- ism, attempting to dilute Stoker's racist excesses and the anti-Semitism of Mur- nau’s Nosferatu, for example. Yet the problem resurfaces; in the Arabian Nights pored over by Lucy and Mina, or, more chillingly, in the horde of rats into which Dracula dissolves, an unavoidable reminder of Nazi propa- ganda films. In the delirium of specta- cle and self-referentiality, it is difficult to know what to make of these darker moments, not to mention the associa- tion of femininity with viral infection. One suspects that the film-makers would prefer us not to think about it too much. Pam Cook SIGHT AND SOUND 43/2 Edes Emma, Draga Bobe (Sweet Emma, Dear Bobe) - Hungary 1992 Director: Istvan Szabo Certificate Cast | 18 Johanna Ter Steege Distributor Emma Metro Pictures Eniho Boresoh Companies Bébe Objectiv Filmstidié Péter Andorai Vallalat/Mafilm) Stefanics Videovox Studid/Audio Eva Kerekes KFT/Manfred Durniok Eva Filmproduktion Erszi Gaal Producers Frau Horvath) Lajos Ovari Housemistress | Gabriella Grosz Hedi Temessy ‘Screenplay Maria Istvan Szabd tren Bodis. Director of Photography Emma's Mother Lajos Koltai Zoltan Mucsi In colour Szilard Camera Operator Jolanta Mielech Gyula Kovacs Kati Editor Jurgen Mai Eszter Kovacs Gerd Blahuschek Production Designer German Businessmen Attila Kovacs Irma Pathos Music Erzsi Pésztor Tibor Bornai Hédi Temessy Fero Nagy tren Bodis Mihaly Moricz Errsi Gaal Music Extracts Zoltan Mucsi “Carnaval: Sctnes Tamas Jordin mignonnes sur 4 ‘Gabor Mate Notes” Op.9 by Robert Olivér Csendes Schumann Attila Kaszas Costume Design Agi Csere Zsuzsa Stenger Maria Kertész Sound Editor Zsuzsa Crégé Gyérgy Kovdes Andrea Kiss Consultant Judit Crigany Gabriella Prekop Istvan Komlos: ‘Subtitles Magda Darvas Cinetype Szilveszter Sikiési Jézset Horvath Katalin Sélyom Joli Jaszai Zséfia Varga 7,295 feet 81 minutes Subtitles After moving from the country to Budapest in search of better prospects, Emma and Bébe share a room at a cheerless official hotel and scrape a living as language teachers, Trained in Russian - which, following the collapse of Communism, is now no longer needed - they struggle to mas- ter English phrases that might be of use to their unruly pupils. Emma earns some extra forints by house-cleaning, while Bébe supplements her income by undefined but less respectable meth- ods. For Emma, the only comfort is her love for Stefanics, the school headmas- ter; a married man, fearful of risking his job, he responds moodily, with intermittent Kindness and cruelty. Threatened by a would-be rapist one night, Emma finds the subsequent police interrogation almost as offen- sive. She is also verbally attacked by a ‘ fellow teacher, who accuses her of incompetence, but the only support she gets from Stefanics is the offer of his country home for a weekend. Emma and Bébe have the dacha to themselves; discussing their prospects, 44|2 SIGHT AND SOUND Bébe confirms her determination to escape from poverty by marrying a for- eigner if necessary, and warns Emma not to waste her time on Stefanics, with whom Bébe has previously had a fleeting affair. Window-shopping in Budapest, the two girls pose for Szilard, the school art teacher, who is earning spare cash as a street artist. Bobe sets about picking up a couple of foreign men at a cafe, but Emma leaves her to it in disgust. Visited by her mother, who hopes she will return home, she remains resolved to stay in the city, even while her colleagues, des- perate for income, are auditioning to be nude extras for a film company. Although she had decided to break off with Stefanics, she is unable to keep away from him, and their furtive affair continues, Visiting a church on behalf of the hospitalised Mrs Vadkerti, mother of one of her employers, she prays for guidance. Encountering Szilard at a dance at the teachers’ hostel, Emma makes love to him in a borrowed room. Returning to her own room, she finds the police there; Bébe has been arrested for drug- dealing and prostitution, and Emma is interrogated as a potential witness. Shocked that she knows so little about her friend, she defends Bébe as best she can. Later, there is little sympathy from Stefanics, who seems to believe that Emma too is no better than a whore. Despairingly, Emma resumes her duties, taking out her fury on the class troublemaker. Eva, a new girl, is assigned as her room-mate; they do not get on. Two months later, Bébe sud- denly arrives and begs the use of a shower and clean clothes; left alone, she throws herself out of a window and Emma weeps over her as she dies. Convinced that death is no solution to her predicament, Emma takes a job selling newspapers on the street. With an afterthought (Sketches, nudes) tacked on to its main title, Szabo’s film is an assortment of mono- logues, interrogations and detours, which contrives to form a dejected coherence. Supplementing Emma's recurrent nightmare, in which she rolls naked and helpless down a crum- bling slope, the image of her waking hours are of bleak hostility: a chilly shower-cubicle, desolate corridors, a playground where the students burn their books, a staffroom and classroom alike in their apathy and disorder, a bus-load of foul-mouthed punks. The brief moments of pleasure in this piti- less environment - apart from one unconsummated woodland stroll - are stolen in cluttered store-rooms, the front seats of cars, and on borrowed beds. Under attack from rapist, cop. vagrant or colleague (even her grimly chanting language teacher bullies her like an inquisitor), Emma _ finds reflections of her predicament in glimpses of Garbo, Falconetti and a tea- set incongruously beyond reach in a shop window. The sketches, when they appear, show her being exploited by her observers as a symbol of no great Dream Bébe dream: Eniké Bércs6k, Johanna Ter Steege significance. And the nudes, in their turn, a vulnerable cluster of applicants for a movie project, are equivalent case-histories, melancholy representa- tives of an impoverished existence. All they have left, in a new-look Hungary that on release from the Communist grip has yet to find substitute inspira- tion, is a defiant optimism. What fuels the defiance is hard to identify. We might assume that is a basic Hun- garian-ness, or that it springs from a deep-seated faith as shown by the ven- erable Mrs Vadkerti, but supporting evidence is sparse. Emma and Bébe, country girls on the hunt for city benefits, certainly have no intention of returning to their Hungarian roots though the land is being de-nation- alised and handed back to the farmers in predictably uneven quantities. Emma's faith, such as it is, remains similarly unrequited. “Forget solidar- ity, unselfishness and collectivity - they've lost their value nowadays", Bobe tells her, “you're judged by what you've got” Bébe aspires to a wealthy marriage, but Szabo is elusive about her methods, partly because this is really Emma's story, in which Bobe is best interpreted as Emma's alter ego, due for exorcism, and partly because he needs to protect the dra- matic flow of the narrative so that we will be as shocked as Emma at the reve- lation (assuming it’s true) of Bébe's misconduct. The weakness of Szab6’s strategy is that he has to ‘lose’ Bébe for two months after her arrest (has she been imprisoned? on the streets? in hid- ing?). When she reappears for her sui- cide - in Emma's dress, another hint as to her purpose - there is no explana- tion for her loss of self-sufficiency. If someone of Bébe'’s worldly intransi- gence is felled so easily, what chance is there for the naked parade of teachers, nurses and shop assistants hoping to be film extras - or any other job, for that matter, that offers hard currency? What chance, indeed, for the ruth- lessly victimised Emma? And yet, as another jet snarls overhead, Emma contradicts the statement afforded by her dying friend and continues, with no obvious justification, the fight for a decent existence, Given the suicidal tendencies of other Szab6 protagonists - Mephisto, Redl, Hanussen ~ who are driven to self-destruction by arrogantly attempt- ing to ignore the political events sur- rounding them, it is logical to inter- pret Emma's fate in the most despairing terms. Her nightmare fall, her frequent protestations of helpless- ness and paralysis, her sense of being in a ‘vacuum (she recognises, with a gleam of irony, that the word is the same in Russian and English), are vin- dicated by the final scene of her as news vendor, monotonously calling out “Today's news!” even when the frame is frozen. The sympathy of one of her examiners, who has seen the country turned upside down six times in 50 years, leads him to impart an aphorism he hopes will inspire her. “Life's a tremendous thing”, he states, with proper solemnity. It _ seems unlikely that Emma would respond to the banality of this revelation, but Szab6 appears to be saying, despite the terminal limbo, that it’s all she has got. In this respect, Sweet Emma, Dear Babe has something of the sense of Szabd's previous film Meeting Venus, in which victory is narrowly snatched from defeat thanks to a performance of Tannhduser which excuses all previous feuds and liaisons. Here, Wagner is replaced by Schumann, piano phrases imparting an illusory contentment to selected scenes. Also resembling Meet- ing Venus in its portrait of a social sys- tem beyond control, clogged by bureaucracy and vituperative squab- | bles, and of a clandestine affair with no future, Szabé's sketchy tale, loosely interjected with explanatory titles, depends heavily on the performance of Dutch actress Johanna Ter Steege as Emma. Contemplating her surround- ings with a pensive and fragile wonder, she conveys just about enough painful stoicism to suggest, despite all encour- agement to the contrary, that survival is worth a try. Philip Strick ee ae The End Of The Golden Weather (not yet issued) Distributor Blue Dolphin Films Production Golden Weather Productions For South Pacific Pictures/New Zealand Film Commission In association with New Zealand on Air} Television New Zealand Executive Producer Don Reynolds Producer Christina Milligan lan Mune ‘South Pacific Pictures Production Executive John McRae Associate Producer Dorthe Scheffmann Production Co-ordinator Naomi Burke South Pacific Pictures: Sharron Jackson Production Manager Jan Haynes Unit Manager John Wilson Location Manager Sally Sherratt Post-production Supervisor Johannes Konigstorfer Casting Diana Rowan Assistant Directors Jessica Hobbs Charlie Haskell Dean Maxted Screenplay lan Mune Bruce Mason Based on the play by Bruce Mason Director of Photography Alun Bollinger In colour Camera Operator John Mahaffie Editor Michael Horton Production Ron Highfield Art Director Rob Outterside Set Dresser Meryl Cronin Music Stephen McCurdy Music Performed by Colleen Rae-Gerrard David Chickering Stanley Jackson Christine Mori Peter Scholes Costume Design Barbara Darragh Wardrobe Pauline Bowkett Make-up Marjory Hamlin Sound Design Greg Bell Sound Editors John McKay Dialogue: Chris Burt Ross Chambers Sound Recordists Dick Reade Music: Graeme Myhre Sound Re-recordist Phil Judd Stunts Peter Bell Wranglers Lindsay Felton Stacey Felton Molly Ray Henwood Reverend Thirle Alistair Douglas Sergeant Robinson Greg Johnson Uncle Jim Alison Bruce Auntie Kass Francie Gray Miss Effie Andrea Kelland Miss Sybil Andrew Binns Joe Dyer Ross McKellar Bob Ferguson Lucy Lawless Joe's Girl Kate Miles Bob's Girl Francis Bell Mr Irons Tricia Phillips Greta Alistair Browning Robin Hood David Telford Butcher Leila Ford Choir Peter Stevens Herne the Hunter Angus Cooper Muscular Firpo Lifesaving Instructor Robert Hammond Steve Westlake Paul Thompson Fraser Harvey Rupert Harvey Lifesavers 9,270 feet 103 minutes New Zealand, 1935. 12-year-old Geoff Crome lives with his mother and father and his younger sib- lings Ted and Molly by Tiparinga Beach. Solitary and introspective, he dreams of becoming a great writer. During the summer holidays, he comes across a derelict hut belonging to an elderly couple, the Atkinsons, and adopts it as a place to write his romantic novel. But one day he finds installed there a retarded relative of the Atkinsons, Tim Barlow, who has accidentally burnt the novel. Tim calls himself Firpo, after a champion South American boxer, and plans to achieve fame in the Olympic Games. Despite his father’s disap- proval, Geoff becomes friendly with Firpo, and encourages him in his plans. On Christmas Day Geoff enter- tains his family with a play he has writ- ten, but Ted's incompetence ruins it. Soon afterwards, to Geoff’s embarrass- ment, Firpo shows up on the beach and publicly announces his ambitions, causing general amusement. A local youth, Joe Dyer, sends Firpo an invitation via Geoff to compete in a race along the beach to decide the official New Zealand team for the Olympics. Geoff guesses this is a hoax but Firpo, taking it seriously, believes himself already a ‘made man, and refuses to train or change his diet. Dreading the prospect of his friend's humiliation, Geoff tries the power of prayer, but only gets into trouble with his father and the local clergyman. On the appointed day Dyer and his friends show up, along with a huge audience, To everyone's surprise, Firpo easily takes the lead, but collapses some way before the finish. Helped back to his hut by Geoff, he flies into a violent rage, accusing the boy of mock- ing him. Geoff flees in terror. Back home, his father upbraids him for bringing shame on the family, but his mother insists they should be proud of him. The next morning, the holidays over, Geoff goes off to school. a young person, almost always sensitive and imaginative, comes into conflict with the crass adult (and usu- ally provincial) world around him/her has virtually become a genre in its own right. It’s a formula on which anti- podean film-makers have worked some highly idiosyncratic variants, among them Ann Turner’s haunting Celia, John Duigan’s The Year My Voice Broke (and its sequel Flirting) and the first part of Jane Campion’s An Angel at My Table. The End of the Golden Weather, based by Ian Mune on an autobiographical play by the late Bruce Mason, fits neatly into the same pattern. There are some entertaining diver- sions, but the main plotline springs no surprises, and the characters relapse too readily into stock types. Nor does Mune succeed, as Celia so brilliantly did, in meshing the child’s private world of fantasy with the social and political currents of the period. With minor adjustments the story would work just as well in (say) 50s Australia, and Geoff's vision of Herne the Hunter remains no more than an occasional disturbing presence, with nothing of the resonance of Turner's Hobiyahs. The theme of the dreamer versus conventional society ismt much helped, either, by populating this small New Zealand township with enough eccentrics for a Down Under re-run of Amarcord. Within the opening five minutes, Geoff encounters four assorted weirdos on an otherwise deserted beach, and even his suppos- edly stodgy father slips at the least encouragement into his party piece as the Demon Doctor, hauling yards of sausages from his victim’s innards and flicking stray morsels of kidney off his lapel. Rather than singling Firpo out for mockery, a place like this would have welcomed him as further enrich- ment of the communal wackiness, Perhaps reflecting its origins in a one-man stage show, Golden Weather works best in the relationship between Firpo and Geoff, two outsiders thrown together in mutual misapprehension. Whether they are two, or only one, is debatable, since Firpo might almost be Geoff's own distorted vision of himself — presenting, with his wild outbursts, naive fantasies and knobby, angular limbs, a cruel parody of pre-adolescent awkwardness. In the final shot, Geoff heads off along the beach in his school uniform, the Firpo stage of his develop- ment evidently behind him. It’s an end- ing, like the film as a whole, that’s just a little too pat to be poignant. Philip Kemp Folks! First Independent Production Company Penta Pictures Executive Mario Cecchi Gori Vittorio Cecchi Gori Gianni Nunnari Producers Victor Drai Malcolm R. Harding Associate Producer Burton Elias Production Co-ordinators Anne M. Simonet Florida: Lisa Maniscalco Billy Higgins Location Manager Samuel P. Tedesco Post-production Supervisors Florida: Norm Wallerstein Sara Romilly Post-production Co-ordinator Florida: Debbi Bossi 2nd Unit Director Conrad E. Palmisano Casting Lynn Stalmaster Chicago: Jane Alderman Susan Wieder Extras: Holzer Roche & Ridge Florida: Yonit Hammer Tumaroff Assistant Directors Howard Ellis Kevin Barry Howe Matthew Furlin Joshua Kotcheff 2nd Unit; John L. Roman Jeanne Caliendo Michelle Marx Sean G. Pinney Florida: Kevin A. Williams Screenplay Robert Klane Director of Photography Larry Pizer Colour Technicolor prints by DeLuxe 2nd Unit Directors of Ronald Vidor Frank Holgate Aerial Photography 2nd Unit: Frank Holgate Camera Operator Edward Morey III Steadicam Operator Ronald Vidor Editor Joan E. Chapman William J. Creber Set Design William B. Fosser Set Decorators Scott Jacobson Joey DiGaetano Sam Barkan Special Effects Florida: Kevin Harris Music Michel Colombier Music Performed by Instrumentalist: Jackie Krost Sharal Churchill Song “Gravel Road” performed by Magic Slim and The Teardrops Costume Design Jay Hurley Wardrobe Mickey Antonetti Costumers Stella C. Cottini Cathy Newport-Logan 2nd Unit: Diane E, Vanaria Florida: Linda A. Hamilton Make-up Head: Lon Bentley Artists: Julie Hill-Parker 2nd Unit: Leslie A. Wells Title Design Saxon/Ross Film Design Cinema Research Corporation Supervising Sound Editor Patrick Dodd ADR Supervisor Jeff Watts Foley/ADR Programmer Malcolm Fife Sound Scott D. Smith Florida: Michael R. Tromer Sound Effects: Kim B. Christensen Foley: Eric Thompson Richard Duarte Sound Effects Design Donny Blank Foley Margie O'Malley Jennifer Myer Production Key Set; Jill R. Szymanski Florida: Glenn Young ‘Stunt Co-ordinator Conrad E. Palmisano ‘Stunts James W. Gavin Chuck Wentworth Steve Hinton George Aguilar Dana D. Bertolette Jerry Barrett Courtney Brown Roger Creed Mark Chadwick Tim Chitwood Ed Fernandez Jim Fierro Lila Finn Mark Harper Maryann Kelman Barbara Anne Klein Rick LeFevour Nina Leone Stacy Logan Thomas L. Lupo Daniel Maldonado Big John John Nordlum Conrad E. Palmisano Carl Paoli Linda Perlin Randy Popplewell Swede Rundquist Eddie Bo Smith Jnr Bobby Stuart Amy Stephen Wilder Glenn R. Wilder Rich Wilkie Stand-in Tom Selleck: John Nordlum SIGHT AND SOUND 45|2 Cast Dee Dee Deering Tom Selleck Neighbour's Wife Jon Aldrich Evelyn Brooks Don Ameche Retired Lawyer's Wife Harry Aldrich Robert Escobar Anne Jackson Florida Cop Mildred Aldrich Wanda Christine Christine Ebersole County Nurse Arlene Aldrich Joseph R. Ryan Wendy Crewson Patient Audrey Aldrich Teri McEvoy Robert Pastorelli Ross Gottstein Fred Reporters Michael Murphy Thomas Richter Ed Agent Kevin Timothy Chevalia Frankie Davila Kevin Shoe Salesman Margaret Murphy Toni Fleming Maggie Lady Shoe Buyer Joseph Miller Juan Ramirez Jerry Shoe Store Owner T.J. Parish Nydia Rodriguez Terracina Steve Shoe Store Owner's John McCormack Wife Howard Frank Dominelli Peter Burns Tom Milanovich Another Trader Thugs Jon Favreau Mary Seibel Chicago Taxi Driver Condo Manager Jackye Roberts Richard Sullivan Lee Gail Police Officer Kevin Barry Howe Gerald Owens FBI Agent Doctor Bush Christopher J. Campbell Angelo Anthony Will Knickerbocker Buscagila Jnr Taxi Drivers Tow Truck Driver Omar Cabral Evan Lionel Doctor Aviano Gang Leader Marilyn Dodds Frank Magic Slim Mrs Henney Blues Singer Doris Carey Ferguson Tony Mockus Jnr Nurse Chicago Cop George 0. Petrie James Andelin Sammy Lenny lise Earl 0. Boyd Clow Lois Elliott Lenny’s Partner Mal Jones Mike Barger Retired Doctor Paramedic ‘Sid Raymond Mario Nieves Retired Lawyer Juan Olmedo George 0 Cousins Doorman Connie Scurlock Bob Gordon Mother William Jerry Hotchkiss 9,794 feet Neighbour 109 minutes Gy Jon, a successful Chicago stock- broker, receives a call from a hos- pital in Florida where his mother has been admitted. He immediately flies there to be with his parents, whom he has not seen for eight years. Trying to pay for the operation, Jon discovers that his bank account and credit cards have been frozen because of an FBI investigation of his company. He finds his mother in the hospital and his father at home in his underwear, suf- fering from the onset of Alzheimer’s disease; he barely recognises Jon and does not even know that his wife is in hospital. While Jon is at the hospital, his father tries to cook and burns down the house. Jon tries to dump his parents on his sister Arlene, a divorcee living on alimony and trying to snare a new husband. She refuses even to answer the door, so he drives back to Chicago with his parents, much to the surprise of his wife Audrey. The Mafia, believing that Jon has blamed it for the problems at his office, sends goons to break his hand. His father scares them off with a gun, shooting off a piece of Jon’s ear in the process. The ruckus leads the apart- ment building to evict the family, and the FBI seizes all their assets. Ed, an FBI man planted in Jon's office, offers to let Jon - who is innocent of any wrong- doing — off the hook if he will act as an informant. His parents, terrified at the drain they have become, offer to com- 46|2 SIGHT AND SOUND mit suicide so that Jon can collect the insurance. Their comic attempts to end their own lives leave Jon more thor- oughly abused. Eventually, however, the family finds a house in the coun- try, and Ed marries Arlene, promising to send her kids to military school. having your father come down with Alzheimer’s; a light comedy about trying to kill your parents; a laugh-fest where the hero is more abused than Wile E Coyote, at various junctures receiving a serious eye injury, being half-deafened by a gun- shot, losing a testicle and a toe, and incurring minor arm and leg injuries. It plays like an unholy combination of David Gary Goldberg's adaptation of William Wharton's Dad, and director Ted Kotcheff's previous hit comedy Weekend at Bernie's. The central problem with Folks! is that it never decides on its tone. It wants the heart-warming emotional- ism of the family reconciliation scenes between Jon and his father Harry, and it wants the black comedy yuks of the parents’ attempted suicide and Harry’s near-lethal but non-threatening disre- gard for his own life. Is the scene where Harry takes Jon's children to the park and gets hung up in the middle of the street supposed to be funny, or horrify- ing, or both? The film-makers cannot decide, and while Kotcheff is a respected craftsman as a director, he has never been particularly adept at maintaining multiple tones in a con- ventional movie structure. Hollywood film-makers tend not to be good at mix- ing tones, perhaps because they are so rarely asked to by studios which fear that ambiguities and complexities will frighten audiences raised on Lethal Weapon and Home Alone. The actors are surprisingly good, even if there seem to be two distinctive casts at work here - Selleck and Ameche are in a realistic movie, Chris- tine Ebersole and Robert Pastorelli seem to be in a noisy farce, and the rest seem to be watching them warily, unsure which way they should jump. I don't blame the actors; each probably gave the performance that was re- quested. | do feel particularly sorry for Tom Selleck, though, who is a very fine light romantic comedy actor - this gen- eration’s James Garner - working in an age when Hollywood has nothing for him to do. It is easy to see why Folks failed at the North American box office. It cer- tainly was not because of its quality - far worse films have become hits. But Folks offers nothing to interest a teenage audience, and its subject - what happens to the adult who has to care for his or her own parents — is one that people prefer not to think about. It induces guilt to think of the debts we owe our parents, and guilt is not con- ducive to squeezing big laughs out of people who have just spent a lot of money to see a movie, only to be reminded that they haven't spoken to their parents in five or six months. John Harkness mae | Hellraiser Ill: Hell On Earth USA1992 Director: Anthony Hickox Certificate Paintbox Artist: 18 Joni Jacobson Distributor Matte Paintings/ Arrow Films Photography: Production Company Neil Culley Nostradamus Pictures Supervising Film Editor Executive Producer Christopher Cibelli Clive Barker Editor Producer James D. R. Hickox Lawrence Mortorff Production Designer 2nd Unit Steve Hardie Olive McQueen Art Directors Co-producer Tim Eckel Christopher Figg Los Angeles/New York: Associate Producer David Allen Koneff Olive McQueen Set Design Production Supervisor Carey Meyer Miramax: Set Decorators Greg Spence David Allen Koneff Production Co-ordinators Los Angeles/New York: Dale Williams Jayne-Ann Tenggren 2nd Unit: Set Dressers Dana Middleton “Jungle” Jim Los Angeles/New York: Shaughnessy Tricia Riordan Mark Franklin Unit Production Managers Storyboard Artist Phil Smoot John Floyd Los Angeles/New York: Los Angeles/New York: Paul Martin Marc Baird Location Manager ‘Sculptures Jim Goodman Head: Post-production Paul Catlin Supervisor Allen “Boolaka” Sherwood Jones Mansfield 2nd Unit Director Special Effects Bob Keen Co-ordinator Casting Bob Keen Los Angeles: Special Effects Geno Havens Nik Galitzine New York: Eric Good Leonard Finger Joseph Schultz North Carolina: Mechanical Special Effects Clayton D. Hill Co-ordinator Associate: Ray Bivins Sharon A. Hill Mechanical Special Effects Extras: Bob Canipe Jr The Casting Group Larry Bivins Assistant Directors Joe Goins Paul Martin Dave Whisnant Ty Arnold Joel Bowman Paula M. Hammerel Keith Montero 2nd Unit: Music Matthew Maiellaro Randy Miller Los Angeles/New York: Additional: Cari Frankson Christopher Young Screenplay Music Performed by Peter Atkins The Symphony Story Orchestra and Choir of Peter Atkins Mosfilm Studios Tony Randel Orchestrations Based on characters Randy Miller created by Clive Barker Peter Tomashek Director of Photography John Kull Gerry Lively Music Co-ordinator In colour Carol Sue Baker 2nd Unit Director Music Supervisor of Photography Carol Sue Baker Russ Brandt Music Editors Camera Operator Doug Lackey Richard Clabaugh Carl Swartz Steadicam Operator Songs Neal Forney “Divine Thing” by Sean Blue Screen Co-ordinator Dickson, performed Michael Satrazemis Jnr by Soup Dragons; Special Visual Effects “Ooh-La-La” by Sash Cinema Research K. Konietzko, En Esch, Corporation performed by KMFDM; Producer: “Hanging Judge” Steve Rundell performed by Armored Co-ordinator: Saint; “What Girls Erica Heider Want" by J. Ellison, Camera Operator: performed by Material Reid Paul Issue; “Go With Me” by Editor: M. Templin, D. Coutts, C. Marie Davis performed by Ten Inch Optical Supervisor: Men; “I Feel Like Steve” Dion Hatch by John Feldman, Optical Camera: Electric Love Hogs, Eugene Eyerly performed by Electric Steve Mayer Love Hogs: “Down, Ernest Miller Down. Down” by Animator: J. Christian, M. Baker, Jay Johnson G. Giuffria, B. Marlett, Animation Supervisor: performed by House of Steve Wright Lords; “Baby Universal” by David Bowie, Reeves Lenny Rios Gabrels, performed Anthony Fincher by Tin Machine; Stand-ins “Waltzing With a Nicci Johnston Jaguar” by Tyson Todd Kevin Helms Meade, The Chainsaw Kittens, performed by Cast The Chainsaw Kittens; Terry Farrell “Troublemaker” by Joey Summerskill G. Moore, M. Levine, Doug Bradley Mladen, performed by Pinhead/Elliott Triumph; “Hellraiser” Paula Marshall by O. Osbourne, Terri L. Kilmister, Z. Wylde Kevin Bernhardt performed by J.P. Monroe Motorhead Ken Carpenter Costume Design Doc/Camerahead Leonard Pollack Peter Boynton Wardrobe Joey's Father Claire Porter Aimee Leigh Los Angeles/New York: Sandy Hilary Momberger Lawrence Mortorff Make-up/Hair Bum Key: Clayton Hill Rudy Sotomayor The Priest Los Angeles/New York: Larry Kuppin Traci Smithe Derelict Special Make-up Effects Brent Bolthouse Co-ordinator: CD the DJ Paul Jones Philip Hyland Supervisors; Brad Steve Painter George Lee Mark Coulier Bob Dave Keen David Young Los Angeles/New York: Bill the Bouncer Co-ordinator: Ron Norris Bob Keen Douglas the Bouncer Physical Effects Shanna Teare Kevin McCarthy Female Cop John Wells Bobby Bragg Sound Design Bob Stephens Digital: Male Cops Tim Gedemer Rob Treveiler Creative: Chris Frederick Jonathan Miller Paramedics Stephen Earnhart Sharon Percival Kate Hopkins Brittany Virtue Sound Recordists Paul Vincent Coleman Austin McKinney Anthony Hickox Los Angeles/New York: Soldiers Kim Ornitz Steve Painter Special Sound Effects Young Guy John A. Larsen Peter Atkins John Joseph Thomas Rick the Barman Production Assistants Minnie Davis Deanna Gallier Black Poodle Penny Pridemore Young Bobby Knoop David Diliberto James D. R. Hickox Bradley Greer Yuppies Stephen Jennings Ashley Laurence Mike Duffield Kirsty Philip Lenger Tonya Saunders Steve Lonano Angelia Thomas Mark Day Kim Ball Karen Ghant Cassandra Perry Logan James Anna Marie Issacs Jo Heather Flame Christenbury Go Go Dancers Jill Fagaley John Bush 2nd Unit: Joey Vera K. T. Dunphy Phil Sandoval Dave Young Jeff Duncan Los Angeles/New York: Gonzo Scott Moss “Armoured Saint” Stunt Co-ordinator Dan DeVita Bob Stephens Tour Manager Stunts Vinnie Polselli Ron Norris Sound Engineer Joe Murphy Gregory K. Saulter Allen Penney Stacey D. Tyler Bob Stephens Thomas E. Taylor Jar Bobby Bragg Jobe V. Brown Jor Band Doubles “In the Black” Greg Stentz Stephen Harris 8,362 feet Jonathan Zimmerman 93 minutes New York. After witnessing a young man’s death by supernat- ural chains in a hospital emergency room, TV journalist Joey Summerskill tries to trace Terri, the girl who brought the victim in. She is drawn to the Boiler Room, a night-club run by the sleazy J.P. Monroe. Joey befriends Terri, J.P.’s ex-girlfriend, and learns that the killer chains emanated from a bizarre item of sculpture that came from a closed-down insane asylum. J.P. discovers that the sculpture contains the spirit of Pinhead, a demon who can be freed by blood sacrifice. Joey investigates the sculpture and learns from the video-taped testimony of a girl who previously encountered Pinhead (see Hellraiser and Hellbound: | Hellraiser I) that a puzzle box Terri has brought her is the key to banishing the demon back to Hell, J.P. attempts to sacrifice Terri to the sculpture, but Terri reverses the situation and it is | J.P.’s blood which frees Pinhead. The demon celebrates his release by slaugh- tering the denizens of the Boiler Room and raising several, including Terri and J.P., from the dead as demons. In a dream, Joey is visited by Elliott Spencer, the WW1 officer who became Pinhead after solving the puzzle box. He tells her that he wants his evil aspect to be vanquished, but the rules of Hell are that Pinhead cannot take the box from Joey; he must convince her to give it to him willingly to gain complete control over his existence. Joey is lured to the Boiler Room by a fake TV news report of the carnage, and is confronted by Pinhead and the other demons, who pursue her through the city, spreading havoc in a church and on the streets. After seeming to banish the demons, Joey is visited by the ghost of her father, killed in Vietnam before she was born, and gives him the box, only to find she has been tricked by a disfigured Pinhead, But the latter is lured into a limbo where he is con- aN Dead on the nail: Doug Bradley fronted by Spencer, with whom he recombines as Joey uses the box to send them both to Hell. Joey buries the box in wet cement on a building site, but the mystic designs are reproduced in the interior decoration of the office block erected over it. Hobbled rather than crippled by its backstory, Hellraiser II] is a major improvement on the scrappy Hellbound: Hellraiser IJ, although it marks a further transformation of Clive Barker's distinctive debut feature into a transatlantic horror franchise. In Hellraiser, the London setting was trans- formed illogically by over-dubbing the supporting cast with American accents, even when it rendered loca- tions and dialogue meaningless. But in Hellbound the action was definitely shifted Stateside, although the film was made in the UK and British play- ers predominated. Here, intermittent shots of Manhattan firmly establish a specific locale, though the North Car- olina-shot film rarely suggests a big- city setting. Even the street scenes have a claustrophobic, underpopulated feel, and the action, as in earlier movies, is confined to a few major settings, with the emphasis on the standard-issue satanic night-club. Even more in line with require- ments of mall cinema is the dropping of Barker's terminology (his Cenobites become plain demons) and the inven- tion of arbitrary, plot-driven ‘rules’ for Hell and its emissaries. But the most obvious influence of Elm Street lies in the transformation of Pinhead — billed seventeenth and called ‘Lead Cenobite’ in the credits of Hellraiser - into a cult creature worthy of innumerable Fango- ria covers. Doug Bradley, the British player whose career has certainly benefited from the publicity decision to feature him on the poster for the original film, does manage one star- tlingly blasphemous, if irrelevant, scene, as Pinhead humiliates a priest and impersonates Christ by driving two of his own pins through his hands and intoning, “I am the way”. Writer Peter Atkins (Hellbound) and director Anthony Hickox (the Waxwork films) score best in their melding of a British horror sensibility with Ameri- can professionalism. There is an unusual concentration on characteri- sation — the relationship between Joey and Terri is particularly well-developed - along with all the apparatus of Gothic horror as characters are skinned instantly, sliced with CDs, have drills or cameras rammed through their heads or distort like tof- fee. In the tradition of sequel-as-specta- cle, this is as effective a recap of basic principles as A Nightmare on Elm Street, Part 3 or Evil Dead II. Kim Newman eS Honey, | Blew Up the Kid USA1992 Director: Randal Kleiser Certificate Anti Gravity Workshop U Thomas Hollier Distributor Visual Effects Buena Vista Unit Director: Production Company Thomas G, Smith Walt Disney Company Producers: Executive Producers Thomas G, Smith Albert Band Carolyn Soper Stuart Gordon Co-ordinators: Co-executive Producer Michael Muscal Deborah Brock WL. Arance Producers. Supervisors: Dawn Steel Harrison Ellenshaw Edward S, Feldman John T. Van Vliet Co-producer Richard Malzahn Dennis E, Jones Co-supervisors; Production Co-ordinators Mark Dornfeld Pamela Cederquist Kevin Koneval Kathleen M, Courtney Production Managers: Unit Production Manager Charles Finance Whitney Green Scott Sohan Location Managers Albert Cox Eric Klosterman Alan Markowitz Las Vegas: Richard Cross Christine B, O'Rourke Tom Seymour Post-production James Matlosz Supervisor Heather Davis Glenn Ragland Paul Howarth 2nd Unit Director Isobel De Luca Leslie Dilley Jenel McGlothlin Casting Illustrator: Renée Rousselot Thomas Valentine Las Vegas: Editors: Spectrum Services Juliette Yager LA: Victor Livingston Central Casting Optical Assistant Directors Supervisors: Frank Capra Ill Beverly Bernacki Douglas C, Metzger Candace Lewis Jeffrey Wetzel Beth Brown 2nd Unit: Robert Maine Jeffrey Wetzel Joseph Thomas David Katz Kennard Betts Visual Effects Unit: Katherine Kean Benita Allen Effects Supervisor; Barbara D'Alessandro Robert Habros Screenplay Line-up: Thom Eberhardt Bill Aylsworth Peter Elbling Dennis Dorney Garry Goodrow Ed Easter Story Winston Quitasol Garry Goodrow Effects Graphics Based on characters Bernie Gagliano created by Stuart Visual Effects Animation Gordon, Brian Yuzna, ‘Supervisor Ed Naha Michael Lessa Director of Photography Visual Effects Animation John Hora Marsha Gray Colour Carrington Technicolor Elissa Bello 2nd Unit Photography Victor Jimenez Allen Easton Byron Werner Visual Effects Photography Judith Bell John V. Fante Robin Penny Camera Supervisor: Allen Gonzales Peter Montgomery Animation Post-photography Kurtz & Friends Supervisor: Opening Sequence: Cecil Kramer Bob Kurtz Optical Photography Robert Peluce Ronald Peterson Editors James Mann Michael A. Stevenson Douglas Ulm Harry Hitner Phil Huff Additional: Effects Animation Tina Hirsch Photography Production Designer Brandy Hill Leslie Dilley Stage/Matte Photography Art Director Les Bernstien Ed Verreaux Mark Hardin Art Department Camera Operator Co-ordinator Bill Asman Diane O'Connor Video Playback Lead Set Design Mark Burnett Antoinette J. Gordon imagery Set Design Computer: John Berger Kleiser-Walczak Gina B. Cranham Construction Co. Set Decorator Video: Doree Cooper Virtue Creative Minatures Set Dresser Services Leslie Carol Warren Jon Bell & Tom Hudson Storyboard Illustrator Hill Production Len Morganti Services Steve Burg Steven Davis Daren R. Dochterman SIGHT AND SOUND 47 |2 Special Effects Supervisors Dean Miller Emmet Kane David Sosalla Bruce Hayes Mechanical Effects Image Special Effects Co. Designer/Co-ordinator: Peter M. Chesney Production Effects Liaison Kate Steinberg Models Henry Gonzales Dennis Schultz Ron Gress Tom Griep Miniature Effects Stetson Visual Services Inc, Supervisors: Mark Stetson Robert Spurlock Production Co-ordinator: Laurel Schneider Additional Effects: Design Setters Corporation David D. Johnson Productions Prop Art E.B. Effects and Design Puppet Make-up Effects Kevin Yagher Productions Eric Schaper David C, Stinnett Mecki Heussen Peter H. Konig David P. Calvillo Mike Elizalde Glenn S. Hanz Kenneth Brilliant Charles Lutkus Mark Tavares Robert Maverick Brock Winkless Mark C, Yagher Teresa A. Hogan Evan Brainard Music Bruce Broughton Don Nemitz Music Editor Patricia Carlin Songs “Loco-Motion” by Gerry Goffin, Carole King; “Kids Wanna Rock” by Bryan Adams, Jim Vallance, performed by Bryan Adams; “Stayin’ Alive" by Barry, Robin, Maurice Gibb, performed by The Bee Gees; “The Hokey Pokey” by Larry LaPrice, Charles Macak, Tafft Baker, performed by Peter Renaday; “Ours If We Want It” by Tom Snow, Mark Mueller; “You're Growing” by and performed by Fred M, Rogers Costume Design Tom Bronson. Costume Philip Cozzo Dawn Jackson Set Costumers Karen M. Davis Joseph T. Mastrolia Make-up Mary Burton ‘Special Make-up Effects Co-ordinator: Thomas C. Rainone Baby Adam: Kevin Yagher Title Design Penelope Gottlieb Buena Vista Optical Sound Design/Supervising Sound Editors Dessie Markovsky Emile Razpopov Sound Editors William G. Young William Hooper Marty Stein Edmund J. Lachman Frederik Stafford Michael Hoskinson 48/2 SIGHT AND SOUND Mark Winitsky Bobbi Banks Sound Recordists Roger Pietschmann Visual Effects Unit: James Thornton Music: Armin Steiner ADR Recordists Doc Kane David Gertz Foley Recordist David Gertz Dolby stereo ADR Group Co-ordinator Burton Sharp Sound Re-recordists John Reitz David Campbell Gregg Rudloff J. Allen Hurd Sound Effects John Paul Fasal Cortney Goodin Alan Howarth Brent Winter Foley Artists Greg Barbanell Catherine Harper Production Assistants L. David Silva Wayne Gee Dieter Busch Michael J. Morehead Jon Capra Page Rosenberg Visual Effects Unit: Donald L, Sparks Stacy Hagen Kandi Lee White Dennis M. White Lee Scott Pablo Prietto Stunt Co-ordinator Bobby J. Foxworth Stunts John C. Meier Hank Hooker Benny Moore Dennis Deveaugh Tom Bahr Lynn Salvatori Danny Wynands Tracy Keehn-Dashnaw Jeannie Epper Jeff Jensen Cindy Folkerson Dick Butler Andrew Gordon Baird Roberta Hanlen Gary Morgan Cheryl Wheeler-Dixon Animal Trainer Paul Calabria Cast Rick Moranis ‘Wayne Marcia Strassman Diane Robert Oliveri Nick Daniel Shalikar Joshua Shalikar Adam Lloyd Bridges Clifford Sterling John Shea Hendrickson Keri Russell Mandy Ron Canada Marshall Brooks Amy O'Neill Amy Szalinski Michael Mithoan Capt. Ed Myerson Gregory Sierra Terence Wheeler Leslie Neale Constance Winters Julia Sweeney Linda Carlson Nosey Neighbours Lisa Mende John Paragon Lab Technicians Ken Tobey Smitty Bill Federal Marshall Ed Feldman Suzanne Kent Las Vegas Couple Alex Daniels Uncle Yanosh Robert Jaffe Gregory McCurdy Ron Lawrence Police Officer Motorcycle Officers David Scates John Hora Rock Fan in Crowd Helicopter Observer Marion Palmer Mary Ellen Moore Hard Rock Reporter Policewoman Kathy Pastor Randy Swallow Hard Rock Hostess Pamela Cederquist Bill Loska James M. Lauten Highway Patrol Officer Vegas Reporters Sammy Shannon M. Steger Quark Nevada Militia Minori Goto 8,031 feet Mamoru Kanai 89 minutes Japanese Tourists Wayne Szalinski - the eccentric inventor who accidentally minia- turized his children in Honey, I Shrunk The Kids — has moved to the Nevada desert community of Vista Del Mar, with his wife Diane, their children Amy and Nick, and the family’s newest member, two-year-old Adam. On the morning Diane takes Amy to college, Wayne rushes to get himself to his new job at Sterling Laboratories and Nick to his summer job at a water park. Nick fails to attract the attention of Mandy, a beautiful classmate, while Wayne is late for an experiment. His company is working without success on reversing Wayne's shrinking mechanism in the hope of enlarging foodstuffs. The pro- ject’s power-hungry co-leader Hen- drickson is plotting to oust Wayne. That afternoon, Wayne picks up an embarrassed Nick in his solar-powered van. At dinner, Nick is further upset by Adam’s attention-getting antics. Wayne gets an idea for correcting the experi- ments and the next morning takes Nick and Adam to the lab, where he revs up the growth ray, using Adam's stuffed bunny as a subject. Unknown to Wayne and Nick, Adam is acciden- tally dosed with a ray, along with the stuffed animal. The machine blows up, and everyone returns home. At lunch, a surge of power from the microwave oven zaps Adam, who grows to a height of seven feet. Wayne and Nick take him to the lab, where Hendrick- son is fuming over the burnt-out equipment. Disguising Adam in adult clothing, Wayne beats a retreat. Adam becomes more unruly and chases everyone around at home, before going to sleep in a makeshift playpen. Wayne and Diane set out for Sterling Labs’ warehouse to find Wayne's old shrinking gun. Unfortu- nately, Mandy, who had been hired to babysit, wakes Adam, who breaks free. Mandy and Nick tie him up, but another surge of power doubles his size and he breaks out of the house. After terrorising a birthday party, he settles down and Nick and Mandy catch up with him, but Hendrickson arrives and summons federal marshals to take over security and seize Adam. Wayne and Diane arrive home to be told by federal marshal Preston Brooks that their son is in custody in a truck. Hendrickson announces that Adam will become a subject of study, and that Wayne is now off the project; how- ever, Clifford Sterling, the firm's patri- arch, shows up and cans Hendrickson. Meanwhile, the truck carrying Adam drives past a row of crackling power lines; Adam grows to 50 feet and again escapes, stuffing Nick and Mandy into his pocket. Wayne and Sterling are horrified to learn that Adam _ has headed for Las Vegas. At an roadblock, an attempt is made to use the shrink- ing ray on Adam. Wayne coaxes him to sleep, but uses the word “nap”, which sends him into a tantrum. Adam reaches Las Vegas, causing chaos. Brooks lures him out of town with an ice-cream truck. Hendrickson enlists the Air National Guard to shoot Adam with a tranquiliser gun. Diane realises that Adam doesn’t recognise her because he expects his mommy to be bigger than he is, so insists that Wayne blow her up too. As a helicopter arrives and Hendrickson prepares to shoot, a 200-foot Diane shoos the helicopter away and embraces Adam. Happy in her arms, Adam sits still while Wayne shrinks him and Diane back to size. After Diane punches out Hendrick- son, everyone realises that Nick and Mandy have been accidentally minia- turised. Nick is finally making some romantic headway, and Wayne decides to give him a few moments before restoring him to full size. One of the reasons why Honey, I Shrunk The Kids worked so well was its two-track narrative. While Wayne Szalinski searched frantically for his shrunken kids, the kids them- selves underwent an exciting adven- ture in their now-enormous back yard. In the sequel, the film-makers are stuck with a much thinner narrative. After all, the ability of a two-year-old to understand his growth, and certainly his ability to articulate it, are highly limited. The innocent smashing of houses and kidnapping of siblings have limited appeal. The problem with the film is that we never quite figure out whose story is being told. For a while, it looks as though teenage Nick is centre stage, and in fact, his plight comes close to matching the psychological underpin- nings that upheld the first film. With his sister at college, Nick finds himself odd man out in a household centred around the charming antics of his kid brother, whose infuriating intrusions — he pulls out the telephone cord just when Nick has finally got his beloved on the line - are viewed by Nick's par- ents as merely cute. To Nick, Adam's sudden growth is simply the physical manifestation of the family situation under which he has been labouring all along. Adam's putting Nick and _ his prospective girlfriend in his pocket is an apt metaphor for any teen with an ‘adorable’ younger sibling. Apt it may be, but somewhat abrupt and final, too. When Nick ends up in that pocket, he also loses whatever nar- rative primacy he might have hoped to have; after all, it is difficult to spend time with people muffled in corduroy. From that point, the film, largely by default, becomes Wayne's. And Wayne has little to offer beyond the oft-told drama of a schnook getting the upper hand on the bullies who would exploit him. The bully is the yuppified Hen- drickson; John Shea - previously known almost exclusively for his nice- guy roles - plays him with a hard var- nish that rubs nicely against Rick Moranis's dough-boy down, but by the climax, the film is stretching to set them against each other. So Honey, I Blew Up The Kid doesn’t have much psychological depth; films about gigantic humans rarely do. It does, however, have some very good optical effects, particularly when matching the seven-foot Adam with his normal-sized family; the chases through the Szalinski house look very much like the real thing. The bigger Adam gets, the less believable are his antics, and one scene of him crawling over a highway overpass looks like something out of a Godzilla movie (a fact implicitly acknowledged in one very funny joke), Diane as Big Mama, on the other hand, is truly impressive. If the imaginary settings are a mixed bag, the actual ones are perfect. While calling a desert community Vista Del Mar may be pushing the joke too far, the town itself is a perfectly evoked combination of planned intru- siveness and solitude. The develop- ment houses nestle protectively behind similarly designed fronts while a lack of public space insures that there is no natural meeting ground for the residents (one of Nick’s problems is that he has no easy way to run into Mandy). So communal interaction is limited to snooping and the Szalinskis are reduced to subterfuge rather than seeking neighbourly help. On one level, the film is a poignant reminder of the bygone days when Americans used to invent things in basements and attics. “America was built on the shoulders of people like me”, Wayne asserts when his future at Sterling appears in doubt. Yet even here, he needs the help of corporate daddy Sterling to escape banishment from his own family’s problems. At the end, despite the federal forces and cor- porate honchos who surround them, it’s eccentric Dad and loving Mom who save the day. Americans may have to cut back on uncontrolled growth and shrink back down to size, but we're going to do it because we want to, the film says, not because we're ordered to. Henry Sheehan (SS Laberinto de Pasiones (Labyrinth of Spain 1982 Director: Pedro Almodovar Certificate Costume Design 18 Helga Liné: Distributor Alfredo Caral Metro Pictures Wardrobe Marina Rodriguez Alphaville) Ha Sido Producida Beatriz Alvarez In association with Fernando Perez Del Banco de Credito Titles Industrial Iskra Production Manager Sound Editor Andres Santana Martin Miller Assistant Director Sound Recordist Miguel Angel Perez Enrique Molinero Campos Screenplay Cast Pedro Almodovar Cecilia Roth Director of Photography Sexilia Angel L. Fernandez Imanol Arias In colour Riza Niro Editor Helga Liné Jose Salcedo Toraya Production Designer Marta Fernandez-Muro Pedro Almodévar Queti Set Dresser Angel Alcazar Virginia Rubio Eusebio Special Effects Antonio Banderas Jesus Pea Sadec Songs Agustin Almodovar "Suck It To Me” by Hassan Bernardo Bonezzi, Ana Pegamolde Fanny McNamara, Eduardo Pegamoide Pedro Almoddévar, Nacho Pegamoide performed by Pedro Bernardo Bonezzi Almodovar, Fanny McNamara, “Gran 3,547 feet Ganga" by Bernardo 99 minutes Bonezzi, Pedro (16mm) Almodovar, performed by Pedro Almodévar Subtitles. maniac with a chronic hatred of the sun; Riza is the gay son of the emperor of Tiran. Both are strolling in the Madrid Rastro, aiming to pick up boys, Toraya, the ex-empress of Tiran, is in town to consult Sexilia’s father, a famous gynaecologist. She attempts to track Riza down, while he en- joys amorous encounters with Fabio, a photonovel porn queen and Sadec, a Moslem freedom fighter from Tiran. Riza finally meets Sexilia when, dis- guised as ‘Johnny’, he is performing with a punk band. They fall in love, but are unable to have sex. Making time in her busy schedule to pick up the dry-cleaning, Sexilia coun- sels Queti, the dry-cleaner’s daughter, on how to free herself from her father's sexual advances. Queti agrees to transform herself into Sexilia through plastic surgery, and thus exchange one amorous father for another. Toraya finally catches up with Riza, and Sexilia discovers they have slept together. Fleeing to her psychia- | trist, who has a passion for Sexilia’s father, she finally confesses the cause of her nymphomania, a childhood trauma which also made Riza gay: rejected by her father, she had had sex with boys on the beach, while Riza looked on. Sexilia meets up with Queti, who has now taken her place, and decides to forgive Riza and flee with him to Contadora, in the Caribbean. Eusebio, the punk singer whom ‘Johnny’ has been standing in for, dis- covers that he is really Riza, and gives him away to Sadec and his fellow Tiranians. Sadec and his group arrive at the airport to find that Riza and Sex- ilia have already caught their plane, so they kidnap Toraya instead. Queti, disguised as Sexilia, sleeps with Sexilia’s father and cures him of his fear of sex. On the flight to Contadora, Sexilia and Riza finally consummate their passion. Labyrinth of Passion is the quintes- sential Spanish cult movie. Since its release ten years ago it has played uninterruptedly late Saturday nights at the independent Alphaville theatre in Madrid, where it has taken on Rocky Horror proportions. Almodévar claims it serves as a “baptismal rite” for each new generation of modern youth which descends on the capital. How- ever, time has not been kind to it; and it is best read as a testimony to that brief apogee of the movida period when (to quote Toraya) “Madrid [was] the most amusing city in the world” The film, then, is a catalogue of modernities from the early 80s: music by Almodovar himself with the Peg- amoides; graphic contributions by painters Costus (soon to be victims of drug abuse); an aggressively ugly aes- thetic known in Spanish as cutre, per- haps best translated as ‘grunge’. And there is much to take pleasure in here. In the opening scene Almoddévar’s habitual musical accomplice Fabio McNamara (last seen playing the Avon Lady in Pepi, Luci, Bom) picks up the future heart-throb of Spanish cinema Imanol Arias, who is wearing a ridicu- lous wig. Fabio next appears as porn queen Patty Diphusa, reaching ecstasy with an electric drill (Almodévar himself plays the ‘director’ in this sequence). Helga Liné is marvellous as the Tiranian Empress, cruising gay Madrid lavishly cross-dressed. And as the veteran of innumerable B-movies, she brings a perilously camp gravity to lines such as “The history of this cen- tury has been most unjust with me”. Toraya insists on speaking an outra- geous mix of Italian and Spanish. Many of the references may be lost on an English-speaking audience. Choice here is the Argentine psychoanalyst “of the Lacanian school”, obsessed with luring her patient’s father into a very intimate session. Indeed, the delirious plot is based on a parody of the cheap psychology Almodovar loves so much in Hitchcock: both of the main charac- ters are condemned to promiscuity by infantile trauma (a destiny they assume with some relish); and in a typ- ical irony they can only express their love for each other by not having sex. The film thus announces Almodévar's grand theme, to be explored in his later films: the possibility of the cou- ple, the inevitable disasters of desire. But when Dark Habits (made just one year later) deftly interweaves farce and pathos, Labyrinth of Passion reveals an uncharacteristic contempt for its Baptismal grunge: Marta Fernandez-Muro gallery of grotesques. British audiences are unlikely to take kindly to such scenes as Queti’s repeated rape by her father (intended as yet another Oedi- pal parody), and much of the scatologi- cal humour has a distinctly misogynist tone. A film of fathers rather than mothers (uniquely in Almodévar's oeu- vre), Labyrinth of Passion raises none of the disturbing implications of sexual violence explored in Pepi, Luci, and benefits from none of that film’s ten- der exploration of relationships be- tween women. This is partly due to the absence of Almodévar's most skilled female actors: Carmen Maura and Juli- eta Serrano, who have always lent a battered dignity and a resolute pathos to the humiliations imposed on them. The unsympathetic Cecilia Roth (a bit player in the other films) simply can- not carry a whole movie herself. But one particular pleasure of Labyrinth of Passion, for the fan at least, is its anticipation of later, more accom- plished work. Thus we are treated to early versions of the taxi and airport scenes of Women on the Verge of a Nervous Breakdown, not to mention the first appearance of that Almodovarian leit- motif, Shiite terrorism. Antonio Ban- deras completists will savour his first role for Almodovar as a gay freedom fighter (with a particularly acute sense of smell) who insists on putting his “queer business |mariconadas| above the destiny of an entire nation”. In Labyrinth of Passion the gay lovers are fated to dissatisfaction: Riza is ‘cured’ by the experienced Sexilia. It would be a mistake to take this too seri- ously. But the film enacts once more the disavowal of homosexuality so fre- quent in Almodévar's work. And it also raises the equally curious paradox that the director who is (and was) famous as the most modern of madrilefios should be so neglectful of the issues facing contemporary Spain. But if Labyrinth of Passion is Almodévar'’s least sympa- thetic film (his most doggedly inge- nious, and aesthetically dull) it is also his most unapologetically personal. Jean Douchet has argued that it is not possible simply to like Almodévar; one has to love him. Labyrinth of Passion requires a considerable dose of love from its audience to make it palatable, a love which it is unlikely to find in a puritanical Britain; but if the history of cinema is not to be unjust to Pedro Almodoévar, Labyrinth of Passion deserves to be taken on its own, quite uncom- promising terms. Paul Julian Smith The Living End Mainline Production Companies Strand Releasing Desperate Pictures Ltd With financial assistance from the American Film Institute In association with the National Endowment for the Arts Executive Producers Evelyn Hu Jon Jost Henry Rosenthal Mike Thomas Producers Marcus Hu Jon Gerrans Co-producer Jim Stark Associate Producer Andrea Sperling Screenplay Gregg Araki Director of Photography Gregg Araki In colour Lighting Chris Minch Editor Gregg Araki Paintings Beth Muehl Music Cole Coonce Songs “The Living End” by William Reid, Jim Reid, “Where the Pavement Ends” by Cole Coonce, W. Croyte, performed by Braindead Sound Machine; “Reactionary Lezbos with Gun Theme” by Cole Coonce, F. Weeks, performed by Cambodia; “Synaesthesia”, “Cords of Love” by Chris Carter, Cosey Fanni Tutti, performed by Chris and Cosey; “The Snow”, “Further Back and Faster” by and performed by Coil; “Rosebud”, “Suburbarenity” by Fred Gianelli, performed by Fred; “1 Wanna Go to Hell”, “Godlike”, “Naive” by and performed by KMFDM; “Jigsaw”, “IC Water” by F. Gianelli, G. P. Orridge, performed by Payehle; by and performed by Babyland; “Agress’, “Decisions”, “Ingest” by and performed by Blohazard PCB; “Filament”, “Blunt Force Trauma™ by and performed by Chem Lab; "Countdown", “Caliber” by and performed by Drance; “Hale Rivet", “Imitation”, “Hang Your Head” by and performed by 10 Volt Title Design Steven Hankinson Titles Mar Elepano Sound Design George Lockwood Sound Recordists Dave Cash Joyce Brouwers Jack Kofman Cast Mike Dytri Luke Craig Gilmore Jon Mark Finch Doctor Mary Woronov Daisy Johanna Went Fern Darcy Marta Darcy Ken Nicole Dillenberg Barbie Stephen Holman Magie Song 7-11 Couple Peter Lanigan Jon Gerrans Jack Kofman Three Stooges Arguing Couple at Ralphs J. Sidney Beswick Buddhist Paul Bartel Twister Master 7,601 feet 84 minutes “Mask*, “Smrow-loh", “Reality”, “Mindfuck” Jon, a young film critic based in Los Angeles, discovers that he is HIV positive. Luke, an itinerant who is also HIV positive, drifts towards LA. He hitches a ride with two women, Daisy and Fern, then steals their car, Later Luke is picked up by a man and goes home with him. During the night, the man’s wife discovers them and shoots her husband. Luke escapes, but then encounters two men who try to beat him up. He shoots at them and runs away. Luke meets up with Jon, who takes him to his place. Jon and Luke tell each other that they are HIV positive before they make love. Afterwards Jon kicks Luke out. Later Jon is woken > SIGHT AND SOUND 49/2 < sup by Luke, who has just shot a policeman. Jon and Luke take to the road in the direction of San Francisco after Jon asks his best friend Darcy to look after his affairs while he is away. When Jon and Luke reach San Fran- cisco they visit an old friend of Luke's, who shuts the door on them. ; Back in LA, Darcy worries about Jon and is told by her boyfriend that he is seeing someone else. Jon and Luke con- tinue their journey using stolen credit cards. When Luke is unable to get money from a cashpoint machine he goes gun crazy. Jon telephones Darcy to tell her he is returning home. Luke finds out and slits his wrists. The two fight and Luke knocks out Jon. Jon comes round to find himself tied up and lying with Luke on a beach. Luke jerks off on him, holding a gun in his own mouth, As he reaches orgasm he pulls the trigger, but the gun barrel is empty. Jon and Luke embrace as the sea washes over them. graffiti in the opening shot of this self-styled “irresponsible movie by Gregg Araki’, which is dedicated to “the hundreds of thousands who will die because of a big White House full of Republican fuckheads”. This anarchic shout reverberates through Araki's low-budget, high-octane film. Execu- tive produced by Jon Jost, the guru of the no-budget movie, The Living End has an energy that belies its impoverished finances. The pace is fast-forward, and though it was shot on 16mm, its Californian sun-scalded images easily stretch to 35mm. Aesthetically and politically this is an instant film. It is immediate, desperate and intention- ally disturbing, with its two HIV posi- tive heroes, lonesome cowboys for the 90s, who take to the road to get lost to an America that has betrayed them. Like Swoon and Poison, The Living End is a queer tale that makes a virtue out of the connection between homosexual- ity and criminality. In a rampantly homophobic culture Luke and Jon are inevitably beyond the law. To begin with, Araki’s movie is almost playfully picaresque. The pair encounter a succession of archetypes en route, ranging from two women in an open-top Chevrolet (a manifestly les- F, 5 bian Thelma and Louise) and a trio of thugs out for gay blood, to quarrel- some couples in car parks. The depic- tion of women is open to criticism, par- ticularly in the case of the wife who murders her philandering husband after reminding him that the fashion- ably bisexual 70s are over. But she belongs with the other pop-up ciphers who are negligible in the final analysis. Besides the two male protagonists, the only other rounded character is Darcy. She is a sympathetic presence who somewhat redeems Luke and Jon, and a touchstone for the audience as the two lovers skid out of control (although the role is hardly the caricature ‘fag hag’ it has been accused of being, it is weak- ened by Darcy Marta’s irritatingly melodramatic performance). Sex and death drive The Living End forward, shadowing it with a terrifying fatalism. Indeed, death is figured everywhere, from bumper car stickers to cut-away shots of wasted bodies. The studiedly morose Jon (his music heroes include such poets of angst as Joy Divi- sion, Echo and the Bunnymen and Morrissey) writes his thesis on “The Death of Cinema” in his room deco- rated with Godard and Jarman posters, This fin de siécle necro-romanticism sug- gests, a little too self-consciously, that culture is about to implode. Mean- while, cool Luke, a James Dean manqué, taunts Jon with a “Live young, die young and leave a beautiful corpse” credo. With his bare bronzed torso, his fashionably ragged jeans and cigarette hanging from the corner of his mouth, he represents the homoerotic ideal of hard masculinity. This iconography is echoed in the hoardings advertising Marlboro cigarettes and cowboy boots that flank the roads during the cou- ple’s journey. The libidinous Luke endows their relationship with a remarkable sexual charge. The eroti- cism disappears, however, in the shockingly poignant final scene when Luke seeks ultimate abandonment in self-annihilation while telling Jon that he loves him more than life. This uncompromising and uncomfortable equation of sex with death makes The Living End a film dangerously lacking in hope, which leaves its two heroes stranded on the beach. Lizzie Francke 50|2 SIGHT AND SOUND EE ESE Man Trouble First Independent Company Penta Pictures An American Filmworks/Budding Grove production Executive Producer Vittorio Cecchi Gori Co-executive Producer Gianni Nunnari Producers Bruce Gilbert Carole Eastman Line Producer Tom Shaw Associate Producer Michael Silverblatt Production Anne M. Shaw Production Manager Tom Shaw Location Managers Bill Bowling Jim Maceo Post-production Supervisors Norman Wallerstein Sara Romilly Post-production Co-ordinator Debbi Bossi Casting Terry Liebling Chorus: Nancy McCook Assistant Directors Marty Ewing Roee Sharon Laura Nisbet Screenplay Carole Eastman Director of Photography Stephen H. Burum Colour Technicolor Prints by: DeLuxe Camera Operator Dustin Blauvelt Editor William Steinkamp Production Designer Mel Bourne Art Department Co-ordinator Dalia Taft Set Decorator Samara Schaffer Greg Benge Mustrator Mentor Huebner Special Effects Gary Monak Music Georges Delerue Music Extract “Mass in B Minor” by J. S. Bach, performed by Sir Neville Marriner, Academy of St. Martin in the Fields Music Supervisors Jackie Krost Sharal Churchill Supervising Music Editor Curtis Roush Song “Every Breath You Take* by Sting Costume Design Judy Ruskin Lucinda Campbell Costumers Mitzie Corbin Dave Whiteing Make-up Head: Steve Abrums Artists: Gary Dennis Liddiard Ronnie Specter Body: C. Jene Fielder Main Titles Klasky Csupo Inc. Pacific Title Sound Editor J. Paul Huntsman Sound Editors Matthew Sawelson Adam Sawelson Ralph H. Osborn III Supervising ADR Editor Jessica Gallavan ADR Editors Nicholas Vincent Korda Mary E. Andrews ADR Group Co-ordinator Leigh French Foley Editors Michael J. Benavente Mark Pappas Sound Recordists David Ronne Music: Bob Fernandez Foley Recordists Dean Drabin Brian Ruberg Dolby stereo Supervising Vocal Recordist Ron Hicklin Sound Re-recordists Chris Jenkins Mark Smith Doug Hemphill Rudy J. Lara _. Tony Jenkins Sound Effects Editor Joseph H., Earle Jnr Robin Harlan Sarsh Monat Music Consultants Jolene Cherry Daniel Allan Carlin Set Production Assistants Carol Bawer Jono Oliver Kevin Shaw Stunt Co-ordinator Loren Janes Stand-ins John Hackett Lynnda Herrick Dog Trainer Teresa Miller Animal Action Karl Lewis Miller Cast Jack Nicholson Harry Bliss Ellen Barkin Joan Spruance Harry Dean Stanton Redmond Layls Beverly D’Angelo Andy Ellerman Michael McKean Eddy Revere Saul Rubinek Laurence Moncrief Viveka Davis June Huff Veronica Cartwright Helen Dextra David Clennon Lewie Duart John Kapetos Detective Melvenos Lauren Tom Adele Bliss Paul Mazursky Lee MacGreevy Gary Graham Butch Gable Betty Carvatho Socorro Mark J. Goodman Talk Show Host Robin Greer Actress Sandy ignon Director Rustam Branaman Thomas Griep Lenny Citrano Pianist Christopher Garr June Christopher Thugs Heidi Robles. Rob LaBelle Matt Ingersoll Barman Fingerprinter Raymond Cruz Rebecca Broussard Balto Hospital Administrator Ed Kerrigan Mary Robin Redd Kenneth Dowler Sonya Daniel J. Goojvin Vincent Gallardo 8,964 feet 100 minutes Los Angeles. During a Bach rehearsal, soprano Joan Spru- ance comes under withering criticism from conductor Lewie Duart, her ex- husband. Meanwhile, Harry Bliss, who runs a guard dog service, is having a contentious marriage counselling ses- sion with his wife Adele. Going to collect her car, Joan is startled by a Ger- man shepherd in Harry’s van, and finds one of his advertising fliers on her car window. Arriving home, she finds her apartment has been ran- sacked. After the police have visited, she is joined by her jet-setting sister Andy, who announces that she has written a book exposing the peccadil- los of her many lovers, including bil- lionaire Red Layls. En route to see a publisher in New York, Andy will first check into a nearby hospital for a minor foot operation. With a killer known as the Westside Slasher currently on the roam, Joan insists on moving into Andy's Holly- wood Hills estate for safety. Once installed there, she is alarmed when one of Andy's lovers comes knocking in the middle of the night. Remembering the flier, she hires Harry and his one dog Duke for protection. After receiv- ing a threatening telephone message, Joan takes Duke to rehearsal. Harry vis- its to advise her on self-protection, and they go to a Japanese restaurant where Joan gets drunk. Harry, now beginning to fall for her, is approached by Layls’ attorney Moncrief, who offers him $15,000 to steal Andy's manuscript. Although Moncrief threatens to expose his chequered past, Harry refuses, but pockets the check anyway. Joan attends another rehearsal; this time Louie asks her to come back to him. Harry visits Joan, and they are about to make love when a disturbed Andy phones to say she is being held prisoner in a hospital. When Harry and Joan visit the hospital where she checked in, the desk clerk alerts Layls. On the verge of returning Layls’ cheque, Harry instead goes to Andy’s home to look for the manuscript, and finds a gift Joan has bought him. Joan and her friend Helen return home, only to be attacked by a masked man, whom Joan beats off. Harry arrives, and he and Joan finally make love. The next day Harry and Joan see on TV that Layls is staying at a nearby medical centre. Masquerading as medics, the two go there and nearly rescue Andy. When Layls and Moncrief arrive, Layls charms Andy into return- ing to him, while Moncrief tells a shat- tered Joan about Harry's wife and the cheque. Harry drives Joan home, and takes Duke back to his office, where a dog dealer is waiting to repossess the animal. After a rehearsal, Joan - relieved to hear that the Slasher has been arrested - accepts a ride from chorus member Eddy Revere, who reveals that he is the man who has been menacing her. He drives her into the woods to kill her, but Harry, who | has been following with a new dog, overpowers him. At Joan's concert, Harry turns up, as does Duke, who has escaped, and the three are reunited. © Any anticipation film lovers may Nahe have had over the reunion of the director, screenwriter and star of Five Easy Pieces began to sour even be- fore the release of Man Trouble. Writer Carole Eastman announced that, although she wouldn't have her name taken off the credits, director Bob Rafelson had so altered her script that she was disowning the film and would never work with him again, When the film finally opened without advance screenings from its US distributor - unprecedented for a post-Easy Rider Nicholson feature - people were ready to pronounce it a disaster, Man Trouble is certainly weak, but it is hardly the travesty it has been painted. Its central conceit may be creakily contrived — that an educated and refined concert singer could, out of insecurity, fall in love with a sleazy con artist who, in turn, enjoys an inner reformation as a result of being smit- ten. Nevertheless, it’s carried off fairly well by Nicholson and Barkin. Nichol- son submerges himself in the part of Harry, a man who feels he lives by a code of honour, even if he'd be hard put to define it, A natural-born liar, the more he lowers his voice and leans over to talk in a manner of intimate assur- ance, the more likely he is to be hus- tling. Barkin, on the other hand, with her angular, tough-gal features, is a perfect bit of contrary casting, her | character’s helplessness and passivity lending the normally brazen per- former an authentic note of panic. | Despite evidence of scriptmangling | - the film's structure is weirdly out of balance - much of Eastman’s dialogue obviously survived. What appealed in Five Easy Pieces was the combination of erudition and crudity that Eastman could cram into the mouths of her characters, particularly Nicholson's | Dastardly and motley: Jack Nicholson, Ellen Barkin roustabout pianist. Here she brings the same gift for high-falutin vulgarity to a more prosaic, straightforwardly comic, situation. Harry, so eloquent at lying, is reduced to stammering cliches when it comes to describing his love for Joan; in Eastman’s hands, these cliches man- age to show how far Harry has come in his romantic ascension. “There’s more than a body there”, he tells a waitress, “there's a mind, too"; later, more bluntly but just as innocently, he tells Joan, “I look on a woman as a (wjhole™ The film's main problem is that both plot and subplots barge in on the human action; Rafelson can't decide how seriously to take the whole serial killer/jealous lover/malevolent billion- aire business, and simply flits among them. The resolution of the murder mystery is perfunctory and so obvious it hardly counts as a suspense device. If Rafelson fumbles the thriller aspects, however, his approach to comedy is more thoughtful. One of the broader running gags involves the counseling sessions Harry takes with his Chinese- born wife, played by Lauren Tom, who has made a speciality out of playing accented Asian firecrackers. The scenes, composed largely of Tom's shooting pop-psych cliches, would nor- mally be shot with rapid fire cutting, emphasising Nicholson's flair for comic exasperation. Rafelson keeps the cross- cutting to a minimum, shifting cam- era position and creating multiple per- spectives even on this bit of throwaway set-up. Working with cinematographer Stephen Burum (who likes cool, placid colours), Rafelson invokes a neutral style which lags behind the frantic per- formers; the camera acts like a curi- ous, but not prurient, bystander, shad- owing the characters and just catching what they're up to. The approach should have avoided the schematicism that usually dogs comedy thrillers, but Rafelson doesn’t seem to have any idea how to orches- trate the film's disparate elements. What Man Trouble gains in rhythm and visual style, it loses in dramatic execu- tion. The dreary unfolding of the plot robs Harry and Joan of the authentic- ity they almost gain in performance, and they end as two obviously manipu- lated easy pieces on a chessboard. | Henry Sheehan The Muppet Christmas Carol USA 1992 Director: Brian Henson Certificate Duboi, Paris U Editor Distributor Michael Jablow Buena Vista Production Designer Production Company Val Strazovec Walt Disney Pictures Supervising Art Director AJim Henson Alan Cassie production Art Director Executive Prodecer Dennis Bosher Prank Oz Set Decorator Producers Michael Ford Brian Henson Draughtsmen Martin G. Baker Sarah Jane Tozer Co-producer David Wood Jerry jubl Scenic Artists Line Producer Steven Sallybanks David Barron David Nicoll Associate Producer ‘Storyboard Artists Alexander de Grunwald Michael Sarley Production Co-ordinator Syd Caine Jill Colley Dan Sweetman Production Manager Special EMects Supervisor Peter Coogan David Harris 2nd Unit Director Special Effects Nick Willing Norman Baillie Miniature Unit Director Darren May Paul Gentry Roger Nichols Casting Neil Swann Suzanne Crowley Ron Hone Gilly Poole Muppet Electro/ Mike Fenton Mechanical Effects Assistant Directors Supervisor: Crispin Reece Larry Jameson Callum McDougall Tom Newby 2nd Unit Tim Rose Bernie Bellew Chris Barton Richard Whelan Henri Ewaskio Jerry Daly Miniature Unit Supervisor Screeaplay David Sharp Jerry Juhl Models Director of Photography Chris Howes John Fenner Tamzine Hanks 2nd Model Unit Directors Malcolm Evans of Photography James Gresham Paul Wilson jamie Courtier Ivan Bartos Ben Morris Camera Operators: Louis Glickman Michael Brewster Arthur Catten 2nd Unit Chris Warren Peter Versey Tom Sturgess-Lief Video Muppet Workshop Co-ordinator: Production Unit Bob Bridges Supervisor Operator: Mark Zeszotek Dave Holland Technicians: Technicians: Maria Boggi Kevin Brookner Prank Cazaly Jeremy Brookner Debbie Coda Visual Effects Henri Ewaskio Supervisor Janet Knechvel Paul Gentry Mark Ross Editor: Darryl Worbey Simon Harris New York: Consultant: Supervisor: Thomas G. Smith Tim Miller Digital and Optical Effects Design Consultant: The Computer Film Michael K. Frith Company: Designers/Builders: Janek Sirrs Rollie Krewson Janet Yale Peter Mackennan Nick Brooks Tom Newby Paddy Evasin Mark Zeszotek Mark Nelmes Paul Andrejco Peter Hanson Abigail Belknap Roz Lowrie Isabelle Dufour Val Wardlaw Henri Ewaskio CIS Hollywood: Jon Gellman Steve Rundeil Paul Hartis Andrea D'Amico Laurent Linn C Marie Davis Michael Wick Don Lee Heather Asch Price Pethal Mary Brehmer Joni Jacobson Edward G, Christie Danny Mudgett Patty Farr Dave Kervinan Jim Glavan Peter Koczera Jim Hammer EF¥ilm. Ann Timinelli John Gale Jean-Guy White David Hays Carol Brzezinski Peerless Camera Company; Kent Houston Doug Forrest Andy Jeffrey Steve Cutmore Tim Ollive Alan Hall Martin Body Jim Henson's Creature Shop Creative Supervisor. John Stephenson Production Supervisor William Plant Ghost of Christrmas Past Design: Kevin O'Boyle Control System Supervisor: David Houseman Plastershop Supervisor: Terry Sibley Puppeteer Co-ordinators Mike Quinn Karen Prell Puppeteers: The Great Gonzo! Bunsen Honeydew! Waldorf[Zoot/ Betina Cratchir Dave Goelz Kermit/Rizzo/Beaker/ Bean Bunny/ Belinda Cratchit Steve Whitmire Statler/Floyd/Ma Bear) Tiny Tim The Ghost of Christmas Present. Jerry Nelson Peter Cratchit) Swedish Chef/Old Joe: David Rudman Miss Piggy/Forzie Bear} Sam Eagle/Animal Frank Oz Karen Prell Louise Gold Rob Tygner Additional Muppet Performers: lan Allen David Barclay Robbie Barnett James Barton Joan Barton Mike Bayliss Simon Buckley David Bulbeck Marcus Clarke Craig Crane Sue Dacre Taylor David John Ecclestone Geoff Felix Kate Frost Ken Haines William Todd Jones Ronnie Le Drew Christopher Leith Anthony Lymboura Rebecca Nagan Angie Passmore Peter Passmore Nigel Plaskitt Judy Preece Sally Preisig Peter Robins Gillie Robic Tim Rose Kaefan Shaw Dave Showler John Thirtle Jan Thom Mark Alexander Todd fan Tregonning Simon Williamson Victoria Willing Phil Woodfine Puppet Builder Janet Knechtel | Animatronics Fabricators Daria Gibson Maria Boggi Darryl Worbey Chris Barton Debbie Coda Animatronic Model Designer Tim Rose Music Miles Goodman Executive Music Producer Robert Kraft Masic Editors Bob Hathaway Nancy Fogarty Songs Paul Williams “(Love is Like a) Heatwave” by Holland, Dozier, Holland, “Island in the Sun” by Harry Belafonte, Irving Burgie Choreography Pat Garrett Costume Design Polly Smith Wardrobe Charlotte Finlay Muppet Costumers Supervisor: Connie Peterson Stephen Rotondaro Barbara 5. Davis Carol Spier Carmel Dundon Victoria Ellis Muriel Stockdale Lisa Boquist Carol Craddock Liz McGarrity Chief Make-up Artists Lois Burwell Eric Allwright Supervising Sound Editor Bobby Mackston Sound Editors Nick Lowe James Matheny Derek Holding Supervising ADR Editor Joe Dorn ADR Editors Becky Sullivan Howell Gibbens Derek Holding ‘Sound Recordists Chris Munro Gerry Bates Mark Harris Foley: Jim Ashwill Nerses Gezalyan ADR: Charlene Richards Bob Baron Greg Steele Music Joe! Moss 2nd Unit: lan Munro Mike Harris Dolby stereo Consultant: Steve F. 8. Smith Sound Re-recordists Matthew ladorala Gary Gegan Sound Effects Editor Doug Kent Foley Artists Dan “Dickenson” O'Connell Gary “Wrecker” Hecker Consultants Costume Design: Ann Hollowood Video: lan Kelly Stephanie Robinson Nancy Keller Dan Bateman Matty Eyre Adam Fausset Muppet Stunt Co-ordinator Fred Buchholz Cast Michael Caine Scrooge Kermit the Frog Bob Cratchit Miss Pigny Emily Cratchit The Great Goazo Charles Dickens Rizzo the Rat As Himself Fozzie Bear Fozziwig Steven MacKintosh Fred Meredith Braun Belle Robin Weaver Clara Donald Acsten Ghost of Christmas Present Edward Sanders Scrooge, age 7 Theo Sanders. Scrooge, age 9 Kristopher Milnes Scrooge, age 11 Russell Martin Scrooge, age 14 Raymond Coulthard Scrooge, age 18 Fergus Brazier Boys David Shaw Parker Voice of Old Joe 7,772 feet 86 minutes SIGHT AND SOUND §1/2 In a street in Victorian London on Christmas Eve, the Great Gonzo assumes the guise of Charles Dickens to tell the story of A Christmas Carol to his friend Rizzo the Rat, and introduces the miser Ebenezer Scrooge. At his office, Scrooge ter- rorises his book-keepers, spurns his nephew Fred's invitation to Christmas dinner, and ejects a pair of charity col- lectors. Reluctantly, he grants his clerk Bob Cratchit's request for Christmas Day off. Returning home, followed by Gonzo and Rizzo, Scrooge is visited by the ghosts of his ex-partners Jacob and Robert Marley, who warn him to expect the arrival that night of three spirits. At one o'clock, the Ghost of Christmas Past arrives, and takes Scrooge back to his childhood as a joy- less swot, then to his young manhood working at Fozziwig’s rubber chicken factory where he meets, but loses, the beautiful Belle. At two, the Ghost of Christmas Pre- sent appears and takes Scrooge to a party given by Fred and his wife Clara, then to the more limited festivities enjoyed by the Cratchit family. Left in a churchyard, Scrooge meets the Ghost of Christmas Yet To Come, and is shown the callous response to his death by those who knew him, the Cratchits, bereft by the loss of their sickly crippled son Tiny Tim, and finally his own gravestone, Awakening with relief on Christmas morning, Scrooge joyously sends a young rabbit to fetch a huge turkey. Bestowing presents on all and sundry including Fred and Clara, he makes his way to the Cratchits’ house, where he gives them the turkey and promises Bob a raise. Everybody joins in the gen- eral rejoicing, whole Gonzo tells us that Scrooge became a changed man. “This is really scary", observes Rizzo the Rat during one of The Muppet Christmas Carol's spookier mo- ments. “Should we be worried about the kids in the audience?” “It's all right”, responds Charles Dickens, aka the Great Gonzo, “this is culture” So it is, and maybe a touch too much so; there’s a sense that the film-makers, overawed by their classic source, are reining back the anarchic exuberance on which the Muppets’ appeal always rested, Cult acts like Fozzie Bear (Fozzi- wig) and Miss Piggy (Mrs Cratchit) are Humbug in the air: Rizzo, Gonzo seriously constrained by their Dicken- sian characters - although at least the long-delayed union between Kermit and Miss Piggy, celebrated in The Mup- pets Take Manhattan, has finally borne fruit (two female pigs and two male frogs — the opportunity for a pog, or even a frig, has sadly been passed up). Given that A Christmas Carol is well- nigh indestructible, a little more irrev- erence would almost certainly have paid off. Having said that, it may seem perverse to complain that the film's one major departure from the original comes as a miscalculation. But the addition of a Robert Marley alongside Jacob (to accommodate the show’s two grouchy old hecklers, Waldorf and Statler) should have been resisted: two Marleys’ ghosts, chains and all, are not half as scary as one. All the same, The Muppet Christmas Carol achieves the odd genuinely chill- ing moment, along with a lot of fun. The sets are detailed and charming, there are the usual lively, instantly for- gettable songs, and several favourites (the Swedish Chef, Rowlf) show up in cheerful cameos. As lead guest human, Michael Caine makes a respectable stab at Scrooge, but never for a moment challenges the memory of Alastair Sim. This is a Scrooge whose scowl teeters constantly on the verge of benevolence, with a nice line in sar- donic gags. “Very well then”, he snarls, when his clerks protest against send- ing foreclosure notices on Christmas Eve, “you may gift-wrap them”. But the film's neatest trick is the Gonzo-Rizzo double act, with Rizzo providing a welcome undertow of scep- ticism (“A blue furry Charles Dickens who hangs out with a rat?”) to counter- act excess sentimentality. By clarifying the storyline for the benefit of children who may not know it, while at the same time cracking distancing jokes to amuse the adults, they keep the narra- tive moving - and even manage to toss in a hint of death-of-the-author decon- struction. “I keep telling you”, explains Gonzo, “story-tellers are omniscient”. “Hoity-toity, Mr Godlike Smarty-Pants”, retorts Rizzo. And the Muppets’ origi- nal, education-without-tears mission isn't forgotten. “Nice story, Mr Dick- ens,” says Rizzo at the finale. “Thanks”, replies Gonzo, “if you liked this, you should read the book”. Philip Kemp 52|2 SIGHT AND SOUND eee Night and the City First Independent Production Company Penta Entertainment} Tribeca Executive Producers Harry J. Ufland Mary Jane Ufland Producers Jane Rosenthal Irwin Winkler Co-producer Rob Cowan Associate Producer Nelson McCormick Production Associate Janet Crosby Production Co-ordinator Jackie Martin Unit Production Manager Judith Stevens Location Manager Ginger M. Sledge Casting Todd Thaler Extras: Sylvia Fay Casting Assistant Directors Joseph Reidy Joseph Burns Susan Fiore Screenplay Richard Price Based on the film by Jules Dassin (from the screenplay by Jo Eisinger, from the novel by Gerald Kersh) Director of Photography Tak Fujimoto Colour DeLuxe Camera Operator Craig Haagensen Steadicam Operator Larry McConkey Video Playback Joe Trammell Opticals Pacific Title Mercer Title Optical Effects Ltd Editor David Brenner Production Designer Peter Larkin Art Director Charley Beale Set Decorator Robert J. Franco Key Set Dresser Kevin McCarthy Set Dressers Joseph “Pepe” Bird Gilbert Gertsen Joe Proscia Gordon Gertsen Gary Levitsky Scenic Artists William Lucek Stand-by: Elisa Nevel-Demarest Music James Newton Howard Music Supervisor Libby Titus Music Editor Carl Kaller Songs “Wooly Bully” by Sam Samudio, performed by Sam the Sham and the Pharoahs; “I Wanna Be the One” by Gardner Cole, James Newton Howard, performed by Ripley Fairchild: “You Really Got a Hold on Me™ by William Robinson, performed by Smokey Robinson and The Miracles; “I Never Loved a Man (The Way I Love You)” by Ronnie Shannon, performed by Aretha Franklin; “Forgiveness” by Dennis Matkosky, performed by Lynn Davis; “Deep Water” by Dennis Matkosky, Darrel Brown, performed by Bill Champlin; “Watcha Gonna Do About It", “Shoulder to Shoulder” by Vini Poncia, Alfredo Scotti, performed by Stone Cherry; “What'd 1 Say” by and performed by Ray Charles; “The Great Pretender” by Buck Ram, performed by (1) The Platters, (2) Freddie Mercury; “I'll Always Love You” by Jay Livingston, Ray Evans, performed by Dean Martin; “Love Doesn't Matter” by Gardner Cole, James Newton Howard, performed by Rodney Saulsberry; “Money (That's What I Want)” by Berry Gordy, Janie Bradford, performed by Jr. Walker and The All Stars; “Freaky Styley” by Anthony Kiedis, Michael Balzary, Cliff Martinez, performed by The Red Hot Chili Peppers; “Straight to the Top” by Gardner Cole, performed by Green Eyes; “Never Gonna Stop” by Gardner Cole, James Newton Howard, performed by Gardner Cole; “Cool Jerk” by Donald Storball, performed by The Capitols Costume Design Richard Bruno Jessica Lange: Theoni V. Aldredge Dierdre Nicola Williams Cheryl Kilbourne- Kimpton Michael Laudati Robert De Niro: llona Herman Jessica Lange: Dorothy Pearl Title Design Dan Perri Supervising Sound Editors Mike Wilhoit Wylie Stateman Sound Editors Dan Hegeman Victor lorillo Glenn T. Morgan Raoul ADR Editors Greg Brown Dan Rich O. H. Manny ADR Group L.A. Maddogs Foley Editor Gary “Wrecker” Hecker Sound Recordists Tod Maitland Larry Hoff Additional: Lon E. Bender David Young Music: Robert Schaper ADR Recordist Paul J. Zydel Dolby stereo Sound Re-recordists Andy Nelson Steve Pederson Tom Perry Tommy A. Ford Andrea Lakin Herman Samuel F. Kaufman Peter Bucossi Sound Transfers Attacker Magno Sound Bert Randolph Sugar Sound Effects Editors. Guy at Bar Dino Dimuro Nathaniel E. Johnson Frank Smathers Kid Client Kelly Oxford Brenda Denmark Digital Effects Kid's Mom Kim Waugh Barry Squitieri Foley Artists Marty Kaufman Jeff Wilhoit Lisa Vidal Jim Moriana Carmen Production Assistants Carol Woods Office: Secretary Karen Cowan Joseph D'Onofrio Craig Gering Mike Set: Michael Badalucco Julie Herrin Elaine's Bartender Dave Venghaus Deborah Watkins Marcus Angevin Nun Robert De Niro: Nandan Sage Jeff Barabe Gupta Stunt Co-ordinator Harsh Nayyar Doug Coleman Faruz Ben Lin Cast Duk Soo Kim Robert DeNiro John Polce Harry Fabian Bouncer Jessica Lange Rosalind Malloft Helen Frieda Cliff Gorman Kennan Scott Phil Kid on Phone Alan King Henry Milligan Boom Boom Cotton Jack Warden Victor Machado Al Grossman Santiago Eli Wallach Chuck Low Peck Freddy DiMario Barry Primus Low Polo Tommy Tessier Jap Epstein Gene Kirkwood Louis Cantarini Resnick Boxing Official Pedro Sanchez John Quinn Cuda Sanshez Bartender Gerry Murphy Philip Carlo Clem Caserta Peck's Guy Steel Jaws Cameron Lane Anthony Canarozzi Sharrieff Pugh Emmet Gorgon Muggers David W. Butler Mitchell Tex Low Bonney Delivery Man Byron Utley Mitch Cunningham Frisker Kid at Disco Margo Winkler Dave Reilly Judge Cop Maurice Shrog Leslie Bart Gym Manager Boom Boom’s Secretary Regis Philbin Ann Devaney Himself Gorgon’'s Girl Joy Philbin Lorenzo Paiminteri Herself Tommy Carver Richard Price Catherine Russell Doctor Singer Frank Jones Dugan . 9,370feet 104 minutes New York. Harry Fabian, a small- time, hustling lawyer, persuades Emmet Gorgon to sue Sanchez, a boxer, after a nightclub brawl. Harry is a reg- ular at Boxers, a bar owned by Phil and his wife Helen (with whom Harry is having an affair) and also frequented by Boom Boom Grossman, Sanchez’'s manager. Having learned that Boom Boom’s estranged brother Al used to be a fighter, Harry applies to become a boxing promoter, but needs $25,000 to start the business. Although Harry's case against Sanchez is thrown out of court, Boom Boom is enraged by the lawyer's behaviour. Harry visits Al at his retirement home and persudes him to become his talent spotter. Helen persuades Phil to lend Harry $7,500 if Harry can match this amount. She then gives Harry the cash in return for a forged liquor license (intending to leave Phil, she has bought a bar, but cannot get a license because of a felony conviction). Harry is then violently threatened by Boom Boom, who is worried about Al's involvement in Harry’s scheme. He threatens to kill Harry if anything hap- You talkin’ to me?: Robert De Niro pens to his brother, who has a heart condition. Phil is furious when Helen says she is leaving him and later learns from Boom Boom that Sanchez has seen her going into Harry's apartment, After a row with the owners of the disco where he is staging the fights, | with Al becoming dangerously over- excited, Harry now has to find $9,000 upfront. Phil agrees to lend him the money and also offers to throw a din- ner party for the boxers at the bar on the night before the fights. At the party, however, he tells Harry that the money won't be ready until tomorrow, and the next day informs an increas- ingly desperate Harry that he was joking about the money and then beats him up. Harry borrows the cash from Peck, a money-lender, but Al then suffers a fatal heart attack at the disco after a fight with a security guard. Harry goes to Helen and discovers that her bar cannot open, because Phil has tipped off the licensing authorities. She asks Harry to come to California with her, but they are forced to flee from Boom | Boom’'s men, who corner them in an | alley. Harry tries to talk his way out of the situation, but they shoot him, Still talking, Harry is driven away in an ambulance, accompanied by Helen. , Although Night and the City marks some advance on the flatness of Irwin Winkler's directorial debut Guilty by Suspicion, the impres- sion remains that this is essentially a producer's film. On paper at least, all the elements are in place: Robert De Niro in a remake of a classic film noir, transposed by a Richard Price script from London to New York, and from a wrestling milieu to boxing. The film opens strongly and enjoyably enough, bustling after Harry Fabian through the city streets, watching him out-hus- tle two would-be muggers at a cash machine, trailing him into the Boxers Tavern, then out again as an irate hus- band crashes him back into the street. But with ‘Wooly Bully’ on the soundtrack and De Niro very much centre frame, the echo of Mean Streets in particular (and also perhaps of Good- Fellas, which Winkler co-produced) is both inevitable and very loud. And it is immediately noticeable that Night and the City fails to set up any moral, spiri- tual or even familial framework com- parable to, say, the relationship between the De Niro and Harvey Keitel characters in Scorsese's early film. The result is that Harry's routines, such as a long speech about his time as a legal aid lawyer, while often very funny, take place in an emotional vacuum, and come perilously close to a stand-up routine. The wounded Harry's final observation about himself, that he has been doing his Harry Fabian imperson- ation, is exactly the problem the film itself has with De Niro’s character and performance. This fault is compounded by a lack of substance in the surrounding char- acters, who range from totally pre- dictable (Al, defined by his ticking time-bomb heart condition) to puz- zlingly thin. Helen, in particular, is presented as an emotional accomplice for Harry, with both of them striving for change. But her privileged insight into his character is signified only by the fact that she mimics him, All there is to discover, in other words, is the act. One feels that the crossover between their affair and their financial entan- glements ought somehow to be the emotional focus of the film, but her part is so underwritten as to carry vir- tually no weight. In the production notes, Winkler describes how he wanted to replace the noir-ish London shadows of Jules Dassin’s original film with camera movement and “the harsh, hot colours of New York”. The embarrassingly obvi- ous point, however, is that the dark- ness is related to Fabian’s character and dilemma. The predominance of day- light scenes and the general energy merely highlight the lack of resonance | in the characters and their situation. In the end, the film’s main pleasure lies in the occasional gems to be found in Price’s dialogue — as, for example, when Harry describes Al's retirement home as “a Greyhound sta- tion for death”. But for a more power- ful examination of characters trapped in their lives and looking for change, one should turn to Price’s novels The Breaks and Clockers. And his superb script for Sea of Love remains his best film noir update. Steve Jenkins ‘Olivier Olivier France 1991 Director: Agnieszka Holland Certificate Cast 15 Francois Cluzet Distributor Serge Gala Brigitte Rodan Production Companies Elisabeth Oliane Productions} Jean-Francois Stévenin Films A2 Inspector Druot With the participation Grégoire Colin of Canal Plus/ Olivier Sofica Investimage 3/ Marina Golovine Centre National de Nadine la Cinématographie Frédéric Quiring Producer Marcel Marie-Laure Reyre Faye Gatteau Co-producer Nadine as a child Christian Ferry Production Co-ordinator Olivier as a child Laurent Lesieur Florian Billion Production Little Paul Gérard Molto Carole Lemerie Casting Babette as a child Margot Capelier Jean-Bernard Josko Marc Bellini Cop Luc Etienne Lucréce de La Chenardiére Assistant Directors Neighbour Michel Ferry Madeleine Marie Kalinka Weiler Grandmother Screenplay Francoise Lorente Agnieszka Holland Drug Addict Alexis Derlon Agnieszka Holland Micky Yves Lapointe Mathias Jung Dialogue Simard Agnieszka Holland Vanessa Martin Régis Debray Babette Director of Photography Luc Etienne Bernard Zitzermann Druot's Colleague In colour Marcelle Beignon Editor Woman with Cat Isabelle Lorente Djabula Art Directors Monkey Hélene Bourgy Benoit Clémenceau 9,772 feet Music 109 minutes Zbigniew Preisner Music Director Subtitles Zdzislaw Szostak Song “La berceuse ‘Les Anges"™ by Zbigniew Preisner, Michel Ferry Costume Design Ewa Biejat Make-up Artist Francoise Chapuis- Asselin Sound Editor Gérard Hardy Sound Recordists Pierre Befve Francois Groult Sound Re-recordist Jerome Levy Animal Trainer Pierre Cadeac Film Extract Boris Godunov (1989) a) The Duvals - Elisabeth and “Serge, a vet - live in rural France with their children, nine-year-old Olivier and his older sister Nadine, Elis- | abeth dotes on Olivier, causing resent- ment in both Serge and Nadine. One day, Olivier is sent on an errand to his grandmother and fails to return. Despite the efforts of police inspector Druot, who promises Elisabeth that he will find him, the boy remains missing. Elisabeth blames Nadine for the disap- pearance. Serge decides to take up a practice in Chad, but Elisabeth insists on remaining behind. Six years later, a young male prosti- tute is brought to a Paris police station and Druot, who has been posted there, recognises him as Olivier. Elisabeth identifies the boy as her son and takes him home. Serge returns and the fam- ily is reunited. Olivier sticks to his tale of abduction by extra-terrestrials and Nadine, during a present-giving cere- mony, shocks the family by presenting him with an identity test. Olivier ex- ploits his parents’ indulgence towards him and makes sexual advances to Nadine, who is at once hostile and fascinated. Olivier eventually answers her identity test correctly and he and Nadine make love. Olivier catches the family’s neighbour Marcel (the last person to see the young Olivier alive) sexually abusing Paul, a young local boy, and attacks him. Olivier takes Paul to Paris, where he confesses to Druot that he is not the real Olivier after all. Marcel shows Druot and the stricken family where he buried the real Olivier, who was accidentally killed when he attempted to abuse him. In mourning, Elisabeth still sees the new Olivier as her son. The subject of Olivier Olivier could hardly be more different from Agnieszka Holland's last film, the his- torical picaresque Europa, Europa. But it could be seen as a variation on the same central themes of imposture and doubling - and the rhyming of both films’ titles is no accident. The young Jewish protagonist of Europa, Europa survived the Holocaust by passing as his diametrical opposite, the flower of Aryan youth; like him, the adolescent Olivier, with no clear identity of his own, acts as a mirror onto which others project their desires. The film | actually suggests that Olivier is twice double: not only are there two Oliviers, but the young Olivier was born twice, having been nursed through intensive care after a premature birth, When he confesses that he is not the real Olivier, Druot asks him why he has carried out the pretence and he replies, “To make you happy”. From the start, this boy prostitute is aware of being a magnet for desire. On his arrest, he tips Druot a collusive wink and asks “Do you like me?”, suggesting both sexual fancy and a more abstract, passive ability to please. Olivier does indeed please Druot, who chooses him to play the part that will fill the inspec- tor’s own lack, replacing the boy he never found and enabling him to fulfil his promise to Elisabeth, Olivier’s doubtful return is one of the doubtful elements in what is apparently a true story (so was Europa, Europa, but its liberties with fact and coincidence were more covert than this manifestly booby-trapped narra- tive), Olivier is a foreign body intro- duced into the family in a way that defies rational explanation. His status is given a mythic twist: he is effectively a changeling, an alien who has infiltrated the real, like that other mythic pretender, the would-be tsar Boris Godunov (Zulawski's film of the opera is glimpsed on television). His appearance is not the only mys- tery. There is also Nadine's strange tele- kinetic power, which allows her to burst a light bulb and set a chest of drawers rattling, That staple element of family disturbance, the poltergeist, has traditionally been explained in » SIGHT AND SOUND 53/2 4 psycho-sexual terms, as the repress- ed sexual energy of adolescent girls. Holland displaces that topos, casting Olivier as the ghost (the returning sex- ual repressed) and Nadine as the real centre of disruptive energies (the unre- pressed). The antagonism between Nadine and her new-found brother/ double/lover cannot be accounted for purely in terms of Elisabeth's blaming her for his disappearance; it is as much to do with the fact that his disruptive power has eclipsed hers. The children are also in competition for the ability to represent the family. Olivier seems to know everything about the family’s tensions, and what is wanted of him (this faculty is partly a function of Grégoire Colin's array of knowing looks, at once innocent, con- cupiscent and deeply alien). Before his coming, it is Nadine who produces the perfect image of the family, building a sculpture of eggs which she smashes when young Olivier vanishes. The family tensions are essentially sexual, and Olivier’s ‘return’ brings them to the fore, in the shape of a gen- eralised incest. On arrival, he inter- rupts a tussle between Elisabeth and Nadine which is equivocally sapphic. Nadine accuses him of literally seduc- ing everyone, Serge complains that his wife loves her son too much, but when Nadine etches “I love you” to Olivier on a window, he assumes it is for him. Olivier performs the final twist on the incest theme, telling Nadine, “Now you know how homos kiss” He means not just the kiss of a former boy prostitute, but the kiss of like and like. It turns out, however, not to be true incest. Having pushed the family to its breaking point, the film provides a workable solution to the mystery by identifying an outside menace as the cause of disruption; the trusted neigh- bour who turns out to be a lurking per- vert (the Wolf to Olivier'’s red-capped Riding Hood). If this explanation is unsatisfying in terms of the film's attack on the nuclear family, it is nar- ratively appealing in that it allows Olivier to return to the realm of mys- tery, to assume the full otherness that threatened to lose itself in the family structure, Having both sown and re- solved discord, Olivier again becomes no-one, his own invention. If this seems equivocal, it is never- theless an effective method of allow- ing gaps to remain in a way that French family stories rarely do. Hol- jand alludes to a genre of bucolic fam- ily drama - notably, Jean-Loup Hubert's Le Grand Chemin - in which troubles are evoked but invariably resolved. Here. resolution is utterly illusory. Holland deceives us from the start, in an open- ing scene calculated to evoke French cinema's penchant for the comforting glow. The two rosy-cheeked children move through a radiant cornfield, playing a game of hunting Martians: when they locate the enemy, a beetle, they crush it mercilessly. What the film subsequently demonstrates is that the real alien is not so easily crushed, nor even identified. Jonathan Romney $4)2 SIGHT ANDSOUND = es bina isons taal USA 1992 Director: Howard Franklin Certificate Music Arrangements 15 Ken Kugler Distributor Score: UIP Shorty Rogers Production Company Music Editors Universal Tom Carlson Executive Producer Additional: Robert Zemeckis Scott Stambler Producer Songs Sue Baden-Powell “You Can't Say No Production Supervisor To A Soldier” by Laura Greenlee Harry Warren, Mack Production Co-ordinator Gordon, performed Thomas Vranesich by Sammy Kaye and Unit Production Manager His Orchestra; 5. Baden Powell “Embraceable You” by Location Managers George Gershwin, Ira Kevin Halloran Gershwin, performed Kelly Harris by Roy Eldridge Taman McCall Costume Design Post-production Jane Robinson ‘Supervisor Wardrobe Katherine Morris Supervisor: Casting Tangi Crawford Donna Isaacson Costumers: Additional: Shari Gray Jane Brody Nancy Collini Extras: Kay Morris Raquel Osborne Make-up Artists Voice: Key: The Looping Group Julie Hewett Associate; Additional: Julie Hutchinson Zoe Thompson Joe Pesci: Eric Jewett James Sarzotti Chuck Myer Tities/Opticats Greg Simmons Cinema Research Tom Snyder Corporation Screenplay ‘Supervising Sound Editors Howard Franklin Robert Grieve Director of Photography Stu Bernstein Peter Suschitzky Sound Editors: In colour Dialogue: Camera Operators Bobby Mackston Mike Stone james Matheny Sean McLin ADR Editor Special Visual Effects Kimberly Harris Industrial Light Fotey Editors and Magic John Murray Producer: Michael Dressel Roni McKinley Sound Recordists Supervisor; Stephan Von Hase- Ed L. Jones Mihalik Camera Operator: Music: Terry Chostner Stephen Krause Matte Camera Albert Romero Operator: Dolby stereo Steve Redding Sound Re-recordists Editor: Supervisor: Mike Gleason Rick Alexander Art Director: Jim Bolt Harley Jessup Andrew D'Addario Matte Painter: Sound Effects Editor Mark Sullivan Steve Mann Optical Supervisor: Production Assistants John Ellis Molly A. Donnellon Editor Susan Donnellon Evan Lotrman Lisa L Ladek Production Designer Katie L. Mussio Marcia HindsJohnson Corrine Needle Art Directors George Patterson Bo Johnson Mary J. Seguin Chicago: Jeff “Dash” Tomhave Dina Lipton Dan Perry Set Decorator Kiki Sandor Jan Bergstrom Key set: Set Dressers Vince Palmo Mark Adams Art Department: Matt Davis Scott Fredette Peter Gurski ‘Stunt Co-ordinators Marlin Lam Dan Bradley Doug Mathews Roy Farfel William Small Stunts Sarah Young Hank Calla Michael J. Zufele Peter Bucossi Quentin Schierenberg Carl Nick Ciarfalio Onset: Jimmy Casino Keith Lewis Michael De Luna Special Effects George Colucci Co-ordinator Jean-Pierre Romano Martin Bresin George Fisher Special Effects Stacy Logan Michael Schorr Stephen Mendillo Don Hastings Scott Sands Music Mark Isham Cast Vinny Argiro Joe Pesci Sergeant at Police Leon Bernstein Station Barbara Hershey Gerry Becker Kay Levitz Conklin Stanley Tucci ‘Tim Gamble Sal Agent Chadwick Jerry Adler David Hull Arthur Nabler Thatcher White Jared Harris Kyle Moore Danny the Doorman Young Agent Richard Riehle Bob Gunton Officer O'Brien Older Agent Bryan Travis Smith Richard Foronjy Young Cop Farinelli Max Brooks Louie Lanciloti Teen at Thompson Mikey Street Patricia Healy Richard Schiff Vera Photographer at Peter Maloney Thompson Street Federal Watchman Laura Ceron Randall Stanton Puerto Rican Woman Federal Guard Chuck Gillespie Jason Wells Cop at Puerto Rican Garage Attendant Tenement Dominic Chianese Christian Stolti Spoleto Ambulance Attendant Joe Guzaldo Jack Deabo Spoleto’s Lieutenant Photo Editor Al Mancini Elien McEldeff Camera Shop Clerk Lonely Woman Joe Greco at Drugstore Villa Guard/Hitman Marge Kotlisky lan Abercrombie Rineman’s Receptionist Mr Brown Timothy Hendrickson Nick Tate Richard Rineman Henry Haddock Jnr Del Close Jean Zarzour H.R Rineman Sal's Wife Henry Botzon Toni Fleming Photographer at Café Sal's Mother Kevin Dorsey John M. Watson Sar Singer Scullion Gian-Carto Scanduzzi Guido Di Marco Maitre D’ at Café Mr D'Angelo Society Teresa DiMarco David Gianopoutos: Mrs D'Angelo Portofino Phil Locker ‘Steve Forleo Arresting Cop Hood Shay Duffin Mick McGovern Chief of Police Cop with Hood John Farris Maurice Bravo Albert Gerard Tom Lauricelta George Luz 8,905 feet Photographers 99 minutes On a New York night in 1942, tabloid photographer Leon Bern- stein (aka The Great Bernzini, or Bernzy) is taking a photograph of a dead man, moving the body slightly to make his picture better. The police arrive, followed by a belated rival pho- tographer. Bernstein develops his pic- tures in the boot of his car and sells them to a newspaper for three dollars. Bernstein poses as a priest in order to take a picture of a man with a meat cleaver through his head. In a cafe, a prostitute sees him watching a young couple kiss before he snaps them and interprets it as wishful thinking on his part, The next day, Bernstein goes to HR Rineman, a publisher to whom he has sent a book of his vérité-style pic- tures, only to be told that his work is not aesthetic enough. Kay Levitz, the beautiful widow of a club owner, now running her hus- band's club, invites him to her office where she explains that she's being blackmailed by Portofino, a man claim- ing to be her husband's partner, She asks Bernzy, who knows all the cops and criminals in the city, for help. Smitten by Kay's charms, he volunteers to find out what he can, but visiting Portofino’s apartment, he finds him dead. Having called the cops, he takes some pictures, but this time the FBI also arrive and take him in for ques- tioning. After they release him, he's hauled in by one of the Mafia gangs, whose leader Farinelli cross-examines him about Portofino. Bernzy returns to Kay, warning her that the affair won't die down quickly. On his way out, he bumps into his best friend Arthur Nabler, a criticturned-producer who, drunk and abusive, accuses Bernzy of being too obsessed with his job. Tricking his way into police head- quarters, Bernzy finds a file on Portofino bearing the words “black gas”. Later, he discovers that this con- cerns the illicit sale of petrol coupons. Another Mafia boss, Spoleto, mean- while, has stepped in as Kay's new “partner” and it becomes clear to Bernzy that one of Farinelli's boys is passing information to Spoleto. He cap- tures on film pictures of Spoleto talk- ing to Farinelli’s henchman Sal, and to Thatcher White, a government official. Bernzy visits Sal, who tells him that Portofino was selling illicit petrol coupons to Spoleto through Kay's hus- band, and that when Levitz died, Portofino started doing business with Farinelli. Now Spoleto plans to wipe out Farinelli and his mob at a ‘family’ dinner, Bernzy decides to take pho- tographs of the massacre in order to get Spoleto and his gang put away and save Kay. By mistake, Arthur reads a let- ter Bernzy has written him in the event of his death, explaining the situ- ation, and tries unsuccessfully to talk him out of acting for love, The next night Bernzy goes to Kay's club. The doorman, Danny, won't let him see her, so he leaves her his book, When she finds out what has hap- pened, she fires Danny and goes to Bernzy’s apartment, waking him up. On her return the next morning, Spo- leto, who has a spy in Danny, forces her to make a choice between keeping her club and informing on Bernzy. That evening, Sal is murdered before he can tell Bernzy the name of the restaurant in which the hit is to take place. Hav- ing found the name his own way, Bernzy leaves his apartment just before one of Spoleto’s hitmen comes for him. Hidden in the restaurant, he manages to take his pictures of the bloodbath and is only wounded. Before giving himself up to the police, he per- suades Arthur to take his pictures to the newspapers. The FBI are giving him a hard time, when the chief comes in with newspapers declaring Bernzy a hero for unearthing a mob scandal involving a government official. He faints and wakes up in hospital where Kay is apologising for betraying him. Surrounded by cheering crowds and photographers, he leaves the hospital, confused and saddened, with Arthur. who has found him a publisher. Based in part, on the New York verité photographer Weegee - so called because of his almost psychic (as in ouija board) ability to get to murders before anyone else — Bernzy's character picks up on a host of brilliant Weegee details: the immigrant background; the magic-associated nickname; the constantly buzzing police radio installed in his bedroom and car; and his particular obsession with hats in photographs of dead men. her, then finds out she’s deceived him. (TESS Sa — State ake The Public Eye is the title of the book | Though hints are dropped throughout f EA Vincen pany ers of gritty, realist pictures that Bernzy | that Kay might be leading him up the A River Runs Humane Society: Humph tries to get published, convinced that | garden path, she’s a disappointingly - Dixie Johnson Fred CaMtand his work is as much art as the elegant | anodyne shady lady. Her betrayal is | BRFOUCTH It rsa Me Benes is work is as much art as the elegant | anodyne shady lady. Her betrayal is Jean Maclean Snyder Saidd Oreainer still lives everyone else is producing. | glossed over so quickly that it has little Joel Snyder Ken Burns Like his work, he is seen as one of soci- | impact, although there’s a nice irony | USA1992 a — ee . . . . - . erry sem unt Sa. ety’s outsiders. Constant references are | in Bernzy ultimately having to weigh | pjpector: Robert Redford White Water: forestall made (mostly by him) to the general | up her deception against his having Breck O'Neill Uncle Jimmy inio sa ‘sh *, he’s en the photographs of his career. Production Aasistants Acecld Richardoon opinion that as utterbug hi a | tak he phi tog ph f his ! ea Wentiche pepgeicanes parasite preying on people's misfor- Bernzy’s stills (in actuality, a mix of | pe Allan K. Rosen Marie Kaderbeck Macintyre Dixon tunes. In response, the film does a | contemporaneous work and latter-day | Distributor Katherine Quittner | Tracey Winningham Police Sergeant pretty good job of redeeming him for | recreations) flash on screen to repre- oo . w ary Daring ne a a humanity. Switching into glistening | sent the violent world through which | ajjed Filmmakers “The Sheik of Araby” Walter Parry AlRichardson black and white to depict Bernzy’s eye | he makes his nightly journeys. While | Fer Columbia by Harry B. Smith, Set: Mr Murchison . ‘ . : * . Executive Producer Ted Snyder, Francis Alexandra Lin Jess Schwidde view before taking a picture, the film they contrast neatly with other, Jake Eberts Wheeler: “Bye Bye Ric Morelli sie Siete presents him as no less than a vision- | swisher locations, they’re never more | Producers Blackbird” by Mort Ben Zackheim Chuck Adamson ary. The tender precision with which | than glimpsed. In fact, the question of riser ipsarls Dixon, RayHenderson, | John Anklow Harry the Editor : . . : . - 3 2 : Patrick Markey performed by Prudence Kim Burns Rex Kendall he re-arranges his subjects (as Kay wit- | voyeurism is left well alone; seamy | 6 ivog Johnson; ‘Muskrat Taj Gombart look Kroll nesses when he photographs a rich | scenes are simply there to show | Annick Smith Ramble” by Ray Jonathan Swain Reporters drunk lying amidst rubbish in a back- | Bernzy’s ingenuity at getting photos. eee aa os ea a bce preteen * * P rbara Malt ry; “Yes, We Have No fendy Spurrier Secreary at Newspaper street) invests both him and them with | Where the film could take uP the | production Controller Bananas” by Frank and Unit: Noah Sayder a kind of dignity. His pictures stand | notion of documentary and its re- | Marsha MannXoff Silver, Irving Conn Key Set: Copy Boy at Newspaper | out against the glowing, period-feel | flection in what goes on behind the | Production Co-ordinators Choreography Todd Turner Margot Kiser dyellows i hich the film i : . d fi ie fabri Karen Hughes Miranda Garrison Stunt Co-ordinator Sal ochres an yellows in which the filmis | camera, it opts instead for movie fabri- | py Fishing Johnay Almaraz John Robotham Philip A. Braun shot. In his dingy apartment, the pho- | cation, turning Bernzy into a kind of | John Dietsch Costume Designers Stunts Dealer at Lolo tographs hanging up to dry appear | photographic superman in a trite | VsltProductionManager = Bernie Pollack Dan Barringer Tracy Mayfield grap gt 8 P ¥; SPE P . tap pe Jerry L. Ballew Kathy O’Rear Jason Borger Bouncer at Lolo even sharper, giving them a hyperreal- | mafioso drama, Location Manager Dishes David Burton es oto ity that suggests that it is only in them Considering Bernzy's own pleas for | LoriBalton Tony Velasco John Dietsch Hooker at Lolo . s ae : : ‘ a! Post-production Barbara Marko Annie Ellis Chuck Tweed that Bernzy's own reality lies. When serious CORSICA, The Public Eye Lasile Rosier Tracy Keehn-Dashnaw Drunk in Jail Arthur Nabler points out that he can't | doesn’t seem either gritty or nasty | sysan Moore Hugo Pena Noon Orsatti Pradouce Jolmeei demonstrate emotion unless he's | enough. Even Joe Pesci, though the | 2ndUnit Directors Chuck Velasco Stagg Summers Pavilion Singer : x a 5 . 5 wos, Paul Ryan George Cooper Animal Trainer D. Gorton behind the camera, he's right: the act mannerisms are perfect (it's a rare | eve pet ie giis Anns Condo acti vens Kitiouaeer of showing Kay his pictures takes the | delight to have a hero who isn't in the | patrick Markey Elizabeth Barber Lincoln Quesenberry place of a spoken declaration of what | usual leading man mould), comes over | Casting Men Cast Drunk in Alley 2 . 4 Elizabeth Leustig Amelia C. Andrews Craig Sheffer Hawk Forsselll Bernzy feels for her. : as too engaging. The film has to keep =p Oe Gor Normana bixelaan Bouncer at Speakeasy One look at Kay is enough to make it | telling you how obsessive Bernzy is, | New York: Laurie M. Riley Brad Pitt Jin Dernikin obvious that the movie is a vigorous | and how sleazy people are; it’s too far _ sea siege . Shiff Paul Maclean Speakeasy Bartender e 3 F . . 2, . s Angeles: Los Angeles: Tom Skerritt Jacob Snyder nod in the direction of film noir. It has stuck into a story that’s unable either | gy.i5 Brown Chrisi Karvonides Satecend Mstean Piano Player the right ingredients: a mysterious | to show all these things or to deal with | extras: Make-up Artists Brenda Blethyn Kathy Scharler (and probably materialist) femme fatale, | its non-narrative ideas. That's a shame, — spc aaa a Mrs er oe at Speakeasy * : clen d. an ean ac. Emily Jeffery and an oddball hero who nearly gets | because the raw material is all there. | \,,... ‘Additional: Jessie Burns Black Jack killed as a result of his infatuation for | Amanda Lipman Barbara Harris Anne Pattison Edie McClurg Byron Dingman Assistant Directors Title Design Mrs Burns Cecily Johnson J. Stephen Buck Wayne Fitzgerald Stephen Shellen Speakeasy Patrons Kaaren F. Ochoa Titles Neal Burns Caleb Shiff Screenplay Pacific Title Vann Gravage Young John Richard Friedenberg Sound Design Young Paul Joseph Gordon-Levitt Based on the story Gary Rydstrom Nicole Burdette Young Norman by Norman Maclean Supervising Sound Editor Mabel Director of Photography Richard Hymns Susan Traylor 11,092 Philippe Rousselot Sound Editors Rawhide 123 minutes Colour Dialogue: Michael Cudiitz Technicolor Sara Bolder Chub Additional Fish Gwendolyn Yates- a : Photography Whitile Peter Pilafian RE Montana, 1910. Norman and 2nd Unit Director C.J. Appel Paul, the young sons of Reverend of Photography fab and Mrs Maclean, are brought up by Paul Ryan Sandino Bailo-lape : om casa neecuin their father to respect the laws of the Lynzee Klingman Hans Roland Presbyterian church. They are also Robert Estrin pati se taught to love fly-fishing in the local Production Designer avid Jol . . Jon Hutman Foley: Big Blackfoot River. When they become Art Director Christopher Boyes teenagers, Norman, the eldest, spends Walter Martishius Music: time learning forestry, while Paul Set Decorator Stephen Krause * a lif d. As'th Gretchen Rau Dolby stereo trains as a life guard. they grow up Set Dressers Sound Re-recordists their relationship becomes more omnes D Paty Byes distant, but their mutual love of John M. Ceniceros Tom Johnson ‘ : Michael A. Shapiro ADR: fishing brings them together. Norman Draughtsman Robert Deschaine eventually goes away to study English Robert M. Dougherty Sound Effects Editors : ean ache at Dartmouth College, while Paul Eric Ramsey Clayton Collins leaves home to become a reporter on Fly Fishing: Foley Artists the local newspaper. Jason Borger Dennis Thorpe . " ai daritc keocce In 1926, after six years of college, Co-ordinator Advisers Norman returns home. Visiting Paul at Richard Stutsman Fly Fishing: the newspaper offices, he is shocked to Mechanical Fish Operator John Bailey me John Foust Technical: find that he has developed a drinking Music George Croonenberghs | problem. Once again, the two brothers Mark Isham Trout Unlimited: go fishing and Norman admires Paul's Orchestrations Terry Austin F Ken Kugler Marshall Bloom skill. At the Independence Day celebra- Music Producer Doug McClelland tions that summer, Norman meets a Stephan R. Goldman Brandt Oswald young woman, Jessie Burns, and asks Federation of . Fly Fishers: her out on a date. They meet up with More flash than dash: Joe Pesci Ralph Moon Paul and his girlfriend Mabel, who > SIGHT AND SOUND 55|2 Super fly guys: Craig Sheffer, Brad Pitt 4 is half Cheyenne. They all go to a private drinking club, where Mabel is ostracised. A couple of nights later, Norman is woken by the police and asked to collect Paul, who has been involved in a brawl over remarks made about Mabel. Meanwhile, Norman is invited by Jessie to join her family and celebrate the return of Jessie's brother, Neal, from Los Angeles. Jessie’s mother sug- gests that Norman take Neal fishing, but the two men end up in a bar where Neal takes up with the local prostitute, Rawhide. The fishing trip is postponed to the following morning, but when | the time comes a very drunk Neal turns up accompanied by Rawhide. Norman and Paul leave them to go fishing, returning to find them naked and very sunburnt, Norman accompa- nies Neal home and has a quarrel with Jessie. The next day, Norman discovers that he has been offered a job teaching English at the University of Chicago. He is later invited to the station by the Burns family to see Neal off to Cali- fornia. He and Jessie make up and he tells her about the job. When Norman goes to see Paul to tell him that he is in love with Jessie, Paul takes him to celebrate at the local gambling den. Paul is in serious debt, and Norman tries to persuade him to leave. The fol- lowing day, the two brothers and their father go fishing, and Paul catches a prize specimen. Norman tells his fam- ily about the job in Chicago and that he plans to marry Jessie. He invites Paul to join him in Chicago, but to no avail. Later that summer, Paul is found dead after a fight. As Norman grows old, he reflects on his brother’s death and the intimacy he felt when they were fishing. eo “In our family, there was no clear line between religion and fly-fishing" So opines Norman Maclean in the sonorous narration that flows through A River Runs Through It, much of which seems to have been lifted wholesale from the autobiographical novel on which the film is based. Robert Redford’s third outing as a director is a eulogy to the verdant Montana landscape and the great sport of angling which allows man to commune with man, thigh high in fresh water, and then to compare trout sizes, The pastoralism and romanticism of the project offer no surprises: cinematographer Philippe §6|2 SIGHT AND SOUND Rousselot catches the deep, mellow colours of a summer turning to fall, a re-run of the childhood scenes in the finale fade to sepia, and Norman and his father join together in a recitation of Wordsworth’s “Ode: Intimations of Immortality”, just to clarify the film's literary lineage. A River Runs Through It belongs most obviously, however, with the recent wave of films that yearn for a return to Arcadian boyhood. As with last year's Prince of Tides, the river is a watery sanc- tuary - the site of a carefree childhood. Memories of it are bright as silver- skinned fish leaping in the sun. Nor- man and Paul's father may be the dour disciplinarian when it comes to tutor- ing his sons at home, but out in the fields he is a fond teacher imparting his knowledge of rod and line. Fishing is seen as an art with its own rhythm and rhyme, and much is made of the swooping lasso movement as the fly is sent on its way. The turning point comes when Norman realises with awe that his scampish younger brother, who dares to do the shimmy in front of the local brothel or shoot the rapids in a small row boat, is radicalising the form and making a new poetry of it. As the boys grow up and apart, fishing brings them back together; it is the one thing for which Norman can respect Paul. Otherwise, Norman watches with concern as his brother's youthful pranks mature into adult recklessness. The wilder Paul, though, is more interesting than the stolid first- born. With his golden hair and win- some grin, it is striking just how much Brad Pitt as Paul looks like the young Redford. Paul drinks and gambles in dark dens of iniquity which are a little too obviously contrasted with the purity of the spring water. Paul also defies convention by court- ing a halfCheyenne woman, which in true liberal fashion is not frowned upon by Norman, although it is pre- sented as symptomatic of the way that Paul makes life difficult for himself. One might also question the film's noble motives in the light of the fact that Mabel makes only a token appear- ance. Indeed, the overall nostalgia seems incongruous given the bigoted attitudes shown to prevail in the past. The central contradiction of this film is that it makes a difficult, alienating period seem finally as perfect as a glo- rious summer's day. Lizzie Francke | Sarafina! South Africa 1992 Director: Darrell James Roodt | Certificate “One More Time" 15 by Dean Pitchford, | Distributor Tom Snow, performed Warner Bros by James Ingram | Production Company Choreography | Ideal Films Michael Peters | In association with Mbongeni Ngema | Distant Horizon/ Costume Design Videovision Sylvia Van Heerdin Enterprises/Les Films Make-up Ariane/VP1/BBC Gabriella Molnar | Executive Producers Supervising Sound Editor Kirk D'Amico Nicky De Beer Sudhir Pragjee Sound Editors Producers Marcelle Mouton Anant Singh Dialogue: | BBC: Elinor Hardy David M. Thompson ADR Editors Line Producer Sharon Hawkes | Tania Jenkins Gary Mcintyre Associate Producers Foley Editor Helena Spring Juli Vandenberg | Sanjeev Singh Sound Recordists | Production Co-ordinator Henry Prentice Alison Ellard Music: Location Manager Eddy Mathiba John Morapama ADR Recordists Location Supervisor Minky Koekemoer Lynne Motijoane Sid Knowles Post-production Foley Recordist Supervisors Minky Koekemoer Lesley Fox Dolby stereo Paul Janssen Consultant: Post-production Geoff Tucker Co-ordinators Sound Re-recordist Brian Cox Mark Phillips Mickey Nivelli Sound Transfers Assistant Directors Akbar Ali Goolam Graham Hickson Eddy Lawson Thomas Mogotlane James Preston Charles Biggs Foley Artists Screenplay Juliet Phillips William Nicholson Mbongeni Ngema Based on the musical by Mbongeni Ngema Director of Photography Mark Vicente Colour Agfa Color 2nd Unit Camera Operators Giulio Biccari Michael Brierley Steadicam Operator Paul Gilpin Rosalind Lurie Editors Peter Hollywood Sarah Thomas Associate Editor David Heiter Production Designer David Barkham Set Dressers Emelia Roux Stand-by: Danny Tsatsi Special Effects Co-ordinator Rick Cresswell Music Stanley Myers Music Arrangemeats/Music Producer Mbongeni Ngema Music Editor Robin Clarke Songs “Sarafina®, “Bring Back Nelson Mandela’, “Sechaba” by Hugh Masekela, “Freedom Is Coming Tomorrow’, “Thank You Mama”. “Lizobuya™, “Nkonyane Kandaba*, “Give Us Power", “Sabela", “Safa Saphel' Isizwe” by Mbongeni Ngema, “The Lord’s Prayer” (traditional),“"Vuma Dlozi Lami* by Mbongeni Ngema. Zammo Magubane. performed by Committed Artists: Tracey Greenberg Leith Ridley Production Assistant Michael John Motsogi Stunt Co-ordinator Roly Jansen Stunts Tyrone Stevenson Neville Strydom Chris Ollie Whoopi Goldberg Stand-in Dudu Msimanga Armourer Stuart Wentzel Cast Leleti Khumato Sarafina Whoop! Goldberg Mary Masombuka Miriam Makeba Angelina John Kani School Principal Dumisani Dlamini Crocodile MbongeniNgema Sabela Sipho Kunene Guitar Lieutenant Bloem Robert Whithead Interrogator Somizi “Whacko"” Mhiongo Fire Stimela Foca Kulu Eddie Wendy Mseleku China Mary Twala Sarafina’s Grandmother James Mthoba Sarafina’s Uncle Greg Latter Gideon De Wet Policemen Nicky Rebelo James Whyte Soldiers Bheki Mqadi Moses Michele Bestbier Velaphi Msini Mrs Hendriks Mate Bashe Patrick Ndlovu Princess Msala Victor Gumede Teachers David Mangete Sbongile Dingatha Preacher Olga Mvicane Sibusiso Ngema Women Shoppers Funeral Leader Sindiswa Dlathu Zanele Sangweni Mabusi Gumede Lindiwe Khanyo Maphumulo Ayanda Nhlangothi Mmabatho Ramoupi Thulani Sento Khumalo Bafana Hendriks Nonhtanhla Sithole Jabu Seipati Sothoane Pheto Wildeman Sindisiwe Sokhela Nhanhla Welile Mchunu Xolani Dlamini Brian “Jazz” Mazibuko Siya Ngcobo Thapi “Joko” Khambule Sarafina’s Brothers Gugu Mhhize Louis Seboko Lerato Wildeman Joe Masombuka Nokuzola Dhlathy Sam Ngakane Futhi Mhlongo: Guitar’s Father Rayhana Myles Doris Sehula Sibonakaliso Sothoane Woman Shopper Lanele Radebe Dominic Skosana Alfred Ndlovu Ishmael Boikanyo Cyprian Shandu Prison Guards John Lata Siphamandia Ngcamu Mazwe Shabalala Khanyo Maphumulo Phakiso Motioung. Vukani Dlamini Sduduzo Mthethwa Dipuo Leblongwa Thulani Mofokeng Mfana “Jones” Hiope Dipuo Lehlongwa Testimonies Vukani Dlamini Congo Radebe Khululiwe Sithole Silence Gugwana Dlamini Mana “Jones” Hlope MabongaKhumalo Siphamandila Ngecamu Nkosana Mzolo Thuiani Didi Sduduzo Mbill Vincent Ngobese Skhumburo Kubheka Vukani “Marko” Diamini Sindane Mbatha Crocodile’s Gang Siphamandla Ngcamu Members Mfana “Jones” Hiope Gugwana Dlamini Batho Mhiongo Dipuo Lehlongwa Thulani Didi Khulaliwe Sithole Vincent Ngobese Batho Mhlongo Dancers Sarafina’s Friends Bifly Mashigo 10,476 feet Dixon Malele 116 minutes Eric Seema Shebeen Drinkers South Africa. Schoolgirl Sarafina lives with her aunt, uncle and younger brothers in Soweto, while her mother Angelina works as a servant in a white household in Johannesburg, A state of emergency has been declared. Sarafina’s hero is the imprisoned Nel- son Mandela, In her imagination she addresses her questions and fears to him, At school she idolises her history teacher Mary Masombuka, who dares to deviate from the approved syllabus, using lessons about the discovery of South Africa to instil a sense of pride and political awareness in her pupils. She also helps the children plan a school play about the hoped-for release of Nelson Mandela. The school attracts police attention following an arson attack by one of the pupils, Crocodile, and his gang, and Mary herself is accused by the threatening Lieutenant Bloem of corrupting young minds with communism, The school children boy- cott white-owned stores, despite the heavy military presence. Visiting Mary at home, Sarafina dis- covers she has a gun which belongs to her activist husband Joe. Mary reas- sures Sarafina of her desire for a peace- ful South Africa. Not long after, she is arrested by Bloem and _ instructs Sarafina to dispose of the gun. After seeing her classmate Guitar talking to the black policeman Sabela, Sarafina, together with some friends, confronts him with her suspicion that he is an informer. Guitar confesses, explaining he has been blackmailed. A school riot escalates when police fire at the children and Crocodile is killed. Sabela is killed by the schoolchildren and a night of rioting follows. Sarafina is imprisoned and tortured. In prison, she learns of her teacher's death. On release she visits her mother, recognising that her strength .has enabled others to survive and struggle for freedom. Returning to the burnt- out school, Sarafina asks Guitar to accompany her in the song they would have sung together in the school play, and herself takes the Mandela role. Sarafina! is an adaptation of a musical by Mbongeni Ngema, a leading figure in South African protest theatre, who grew up in the townships around Durban, taking up the guitar before attaching himself to playwright Gibson Kente. The genesis of the film, according to the press notes, was in a decision by Ngema and Winnie Man- dela to celebrate the schoolchildren’s resistance to the 1976 State of Emer- gency, which lasted thirteen years. The script clearly has its heart in the right place. It tells the story of young Sarafina’s politicisation, which involves transferring her hero-worship of Man- dela to her servant mother (the iconic African singer Miriam Makeba). In the final big number, “Freedom Is Coming Tomorrow”, Sarafina dons a man’s suit, effectively becoming Mandela. Follow- ing the killing of the policeman Sabela, she rejects violence and refuses to “hate the whites back”. All that remains is for Whoopi Goldberg's enlightened teacher to point the way forward by asserting that the key ques- tion is not the attainment of freedom but what is to be done with freedom. Location shooting lends an authen- ticity which jars with more artificial moments like the Broadway-style pro- duction numbers. The socially con- cerned and unrhetorical script is specifically aimed elsewhere, as the harrowing testimonies to camera from the imprisoned and tortured school- girls indicate. This realism also sits oddly with the film's more generic moments, which echo melodramas of resistance China, Soviet Russia and Hong Kong - the revelation concerning Guitar’s crippled father, for instance, the recourse to the ‘curling lip’ school of villainy on the part of the police, and the central narrative and ideologi- cal role of the heroic teacher. More successful is the sequence in which Sarafina, following her release from prison, visits her mother, Here the film provides a riposte to Sirk’s Imi- tation of Life, in which a ‘coloured’ girl rejects her black servant mother, It also implicates white viewers in the | struggle through its depiction of the ‘normality’ of the white employer's way of life. But successful polemical cinema requires a far tighter and more stringently ironic treatment than either Ngema or director Roodt man- ages to deliver, There is too much of ‘The Kids From Fame Go Wild in Soweto’ here, drowning out the indige- nous South African music Ngema avowedly wishes to popularise. Verina Glaessner cae rea ScImnOnn! Germany 1992 Director: Helmut Diet Certificate Cast 15 Gotz George Distributor Hermann Willié Artificial Eye Uwe Ochsenknecht Production Company Fritz Knobel Bavarian Film/WDR Christiane Hérbiger Producers Freya von Hepp Gunter Rohrbach Rolf Hoppe Helmut Diet! Karl Lentz Line Producer Dagmar Manzel Ulrich Limmer Biggi Production Supervisor Veronica Ferres Peter Sterr Martha Production Rosemarie Fendel Dieter Minx Frau Lentz Production Manager Karl Schénbock | Nikolaus Prediger Professor Strasser Unit Manager Harald Juhnke Heinz Hausner Kummer Casting Ulrich Miihe An Dorthe Braker Dr Wieland ‘Screenplay Martin Benrath Helmut Diet] Uwe Esser Ulrich Limmer Hermann Lause Director of Photography Kurt Glick Xaver Schwarzenberger Georg Marischka In colour Von Klantz Editor Peter Roggisch Tanja Schmidbauer SS-Obersturmbann Art Directors fuhrer Gotz Weidner Andreas Lukoschik Benedikt Herforth Knopp Special Effects Thomas Holtzmann Heinz Ludwig Cornelius Music Hark Bohm Konstantin Wecker Priest Costume Design Fritz Lichtenhahn Bernd Stockinger Wolfgang Menge Barbara Ehret Experts Make-up Willy Hariander Heidi Moser-Neumayr Customs Officer Peter Knépfie Sound Editor 9,992 feet Chris Price 111 minotes Subtitles As Berlin falls, and Hitler and Eva Braun's corpses are discov- ered in their bunker, soldiers are instructed to douse them in petrol and forget the past. Immediately, Third Reich relics become a valuable com- modity, and nine-year-old Fritz Knobel becomes an experienced operator, selling the Fihrer’s hat, with full | documentation, to an American sol- dier. In the 1950s, during the German economic miracle, Fritz’s business slumps, but he meets and marries the | beautiful Biggi. Years later, Biggi is running a dry-cleaning business in Swabia while Fritz is a painter, faking Toulouse-Lautrecs. A collector of Nazi memorabilia, Karl Lentz, is searching for a fabled nude portrait by Hitler of Eva Braun, but Biggi, insulted at the way Fritz pic- tured her in the Lautrecs, refuses to pose. Fritz finds a replacement model in the peasant girl Martha, and sells Lentz the ‘Braun’ portrait. References to an alleged attempt to fly Hitler's papers abroad at the end of the war lead Fritz to a new plan, the forging of Hitler's diaries. Lentz and his wife hold a gala reception on the anniversary of Hitler's birth, with the promise of a reading from a Hitler manuscript. Fritz provides Hitler's ‘diary’ for April 1945, in which the Fiihrer ‘dreams’ the crash of the plane with his papers. Fritz meets a Hamburg journalist, Hermann Willié, who has bought the | Peoperscooper: Gétz George | enduring hulk of the Carin II, a yacht which once belonged to Field Marshal Goring, and attempted to sell it to his niece, Frau Freya von Hopp, for 350,000 marks. His paper refuses to pay 50,000 marks for photographs of Géring’s niece on Géring's yacht. Now in league with Fritz, Willié drives to the alleged site of the plane crash and pho- tographs the ‘grave’ of the pilot; this time, he does a deal for the pictures not with the editor of the paper but with a deputy, Dr Wieland. Production of the diaries gathers pace as Fritz pro- vides material from his own experi- ence; after newspapermen are moved by the “unbelievable humanity” of Hitler’s banalities, Willié orders 25 more volumes. At a champagne recep- tion, the Carin II is relaunched. Independent experts are asked to assess the handwriting against an- other Hitler document, and Fritz duly fakes one, in which Hitler asks Dr Porsche to design the Volkswagen. An increasingly deranged Fritz has by now manufactured the ashes of Adolf and Eva, to the immense excitement of Willié, whose order for diaries has reached 60. A reception with fireworks display on the Carin II marks Willié’s 30 years in journalism, but Freya sub- sequently leaves him. The diaries are launched at a hysterical press confer- | ence attended by journalists from 87 countries. But a new report proves the threads, paper and glue to be post-war. | Fritz, Biggi and Martha escape abroad, while the disturbed Willié, convinced that Hitler must still be alive, sails off in search of him in the Carin II, pur- sued by the police. ©, Schtonk! has been heavily pro- ““ moted as an exposé of modern German society; and in a context of resurgent Nazism, a film analysing the fascination with Nazi imagery and ideology, and perhaps shedding some light on its links with the current outbreaks of barbarism in some German cities, would be timely indeed. But Schtonk! is not that film. It relies not on analysis but rather on what could charitably be called broad humour, on a hysterical pace relent- lessly maintained, and on a disas- * Jazjp, trously over-elaborated and increas- ingly repetitious plot. Its flailing at modern German society, in particular the press, the world of scholarship and the military, carries little conviction since all these figures are presented as caricatures of cupidity and credulous- ness, and none has any existence out- side the plot. Schtonk! has a perfunctory sense of time and history. Helmut Diet] does lard his narrative with some effective visual composi- tions, such as the endless snake of umbrellas queuing at Lentz’s recep- tion, or the final press conference shot like a Hitler rally, or a scene of Willié taking Hitler and Eva's ashes as snuff. The film’s verbal humour is also occa- sionally inventive: Fritz plans to fake a book of Hitler's views on women, and even a Hitlerian opera to be staged at Bayreuth. But more typical are scenes of Willié falling over in the mud, or revealed to be wearing a corset, or an extended joke about Hitler's flatulence. The sum total of Schtonk!’s historical and psychological acumen is to have Fritz and Willié | mugging their way into dementia while vulturine businessmen dream their marks-ist dreams. There is some incidental pleasure in the contrast between Hamburg high technology and the cottage industry by which Fritz ages the diaries using ket- tles of tea and an iron. There is time, too, to ponder the unwitting sagacity of Dietl'’s statement that the word Schtonk!, used by Chaplin in The Great Dictator to indicate that he is very, very angry, is not in fact meaningless but derived from a Yiddish word denoting a terrible mess. The immense success in Germany of this fundamentally old- fashioned film is hardly surprising. By rigorously excluding the real world and ordinary people, by aiming its ‘satire’ at the clichéd targets of corrupt newspapermen, arrogant scholars and | mad Nazi collectors, by avoiding any authentic danger, pain or horror, Schtonk! allows its audiences to enjoy a safe belly laugh, secure in the knowl- edge that the farcical events they are watching have nothing whatsoever to do with them. Julian Gi , SIGHT AND SOUND 57/2 Singles USA 1992 Director: Cameron Crowe Certificate by and performed by 12 Chris Cornell; “Drown” Distributor by Billy Corgan, Warners performed by Production Company Smashing Pumpkins; Atkinson/ “Overblown™ by and Knickerbocker performed by for Warner Bros Mudhoney; “Battle of Executive Producer Evermore” by Jimmy Art Linson Page, Robert Plant, Producer performed by The Cameron Crowe Richard Hashimoto Co-producer Richard Chew Associate Producer Kelly Curtis Unit Production Manager Richard Hashimoto Location Manager Patricia Fay 2nd Unit Director Richard Chew Casting Marion Dougherty Additional Owens Hill Seattle: Dixon/Walker Casting Extras White Light Casting Assistant Directors Jerry Ziesmer Michael-McLoud Thompson Joel Wang Screenplay Cameron Crowe Director of Photography Veli Steiger Colour Technicolor 2nd Unit Director of Photography Billy O'Drobinak Aerial Director of Photography Frank Holgate Camera Operator Billy O'Drobinak Steadicam Operator Paul Taylor Editor Richard Chew Production Designer Stephen Lineweaver Art Director Mark Haack Set Design Cosmas Demetriou Set Decorator Clay Griffith Special Effects Jim Reedy Music Paul Westerberg Additional Chris Cornell Richard Gibbs Music Supervisor Danny Bramson Music Editor Carlton Kaller Christine Cholvin Songs “Dyslexic Heart’, “Waiting for Somebody” by and performed by Paul Westerberg; “Birth Ritual” by Chris Cornell, Matthew D. Cameron, Kim A. Thayil, performed by Soundgarden; “Would?” by Jerry Cantrell, “It Ain't Like That” by Jerry Cantrell, Mike Starr, Sean Kinney, performed by Alice in Chains; “Breath” by Eddie Vedder, Stone Gossard, “State of Love and Trust” by Eddie Vedder, Mike McCready, Jeff Ament, performed by Pearl Jam: “Seasons” Lovemongers; “Chloe Dancer/Crown of Thorns” by Andrew Wood, Stone Gossard, Jeff Ament, Gregory Gilmore, Bruce Fairweather, performed by Mother Love Bone; “May This Be Love” by and performed by Jimi Hendrix; “Nearly Lost You” by Van Conner, Mark Lanegan, Lee Conner, performed by Screaming Trees; “Touch Me I'm Dick (Touch Me I'm Sick)" by Mudhoney, performed by Citizen Dick; “Three Days” by Eric Avery. Perry Farrell, David Navarro, Stephen Perkins, performed by Jane's Addiction; “Heart and Lungs” by Robert Roth, Mark Pickerel, Chris Quinn, Hiro Yamamoto, performed by Truly; “Little Girl” by McKinley Morganfield, performed by Muddy Waters; “Dig for Fire” by Black Francis, performed by The Pixies; “Blue Train” by and performed by John Coltrane: “Radio Song” by William Berry, Peter Buck, Michael Stipe, Mike Mills, performed by REM; “Family Affair” by Sylvester Stewart, performed by Sly and the Family Stone; “Jinx” by and performed by TAD; “(What's So Funny “Bout) Peace, Love and Understanding” by Nick Lowe; “My Three Sons Theme” by Frank DeVol; “Bastards of Young” by Paul Westerberg: “She Sells Sanctuary” by lan Robert Astbury, William Henry Duffy, performed by The Cult; “Hey Joe” by Billy Roberts; “Bring the Noise” by Carlton Ridenhour, Hank Shocklee, Eric Sadler; “Any Gal From Texas” by Ralph Blane, Robert Wells, Josef Myrow Costume Design Jane Ruhm Costumers Supervisors: Gail Bixby Frances Vega-Buck Dan Perrett Make-up Key: Norman Leavitt Opticals Pacific Title Cinema Research Corporation ‘Supervising Sound Editor Richard King ‘Sound Editors Barbara Barnaby Sukey Fontelieu 1 a” ee Michael Magill ADR Supervisor Cliff Latimer ADR Editor Cynthia Haagens Supervising Foley Editor Pamela Bentkowski Foley Editors Christine Danelski Christopher Flick Sound Recordists Art Rochester Music Niko Bolas Dolby stereo Sound Re-recordists Robert J. Litt Greg P. Russell Michael Jiron Sound Effects Editors Jay Dranch Ed Callahan David Kulczycki Production Assistants Suzanne Ziesmer Bill Wrubel Tasha Le Mel a =— Mature, romantic and perceptive: Matt Dillon, Bridget Fonda _ Mary Robins Chris Ziesmer Gigi De Pourtales Julie Adams Wendy Skerritt John Anderson Rob Price Stunt Co-ordinator Greg Walker Helicopter Pilot Craig Hosking Cast Bridget Fonda Janet Livermore Campbell Scott Steve Dunne Kyra Sedgwick Linda Powell Sheila Kelley Debbie Hunt Jim True David Bailey Matt Dillon Cliff Poncier Bil Pullman Dr Jamison Devon Raymond Ruth Camilo Gallardo Luiz Ally Walker Pam Eric Stoltz Mime Jerenty Piven Doug Hughley Tom Skerritt Mayor Weber Peter Horton Jamie Bill Smillie Boston Doctor Chuck McQuary Garage Opener Clerk Christopher Kennedy Masterson Steve, aged 10 Matt Magnano Jaffar Smith Kids em Dana Eskelson | Club Girl Myhol Hazsen Club Bouncer Art Cahn Magazine Stand Clerk Michael Su Ted Jane Jones Denise Johnny “Sugarbear” Willis | Rick Randy Thompson Stu Paul Giamatti Kissing Man Alicia Roper Kissing Woman Xavier McDaniel As Himself Wayne Cody As Himself | Eddie Vedder Eddie Stone Gossard Stone Cameron Crowe Club Interviewer Jeff Ament Jeff Pat DiNizio Sid Chris Cornell Chris Thomas A. Doyle Wrong Phone Number Alice Marie Crowe Dr Jamison’s Nurse Joan Giammarco Receptionist Jim Hechim Rich Heather Hughes Lauren Tim Burton Brian “Crazy Steve” Olsen Rob Bernard Bentley Spiro Stephen Rutledge Charles Daniel Johnson Sean Bruce Pavitt Bruce Michael Gardner Mike Sandra Grant ‘Waitress Karen Denice La Voie Hostess Tom Francis. Deputy Mayor Jerry Ziesmer Councilman jordan Fisher Nina Escudero Airline Clerk Dan Wartman Single Kid on Plane Amy Hill Hospital Nurse Mike Parker Mover 8,915 feet 99 minutes Twentysomething environmen- talist Linda owns a house in the suburbs of Seattle. On the rebound from a heartbreaking fling with a for- eign student who wasn't everything he appeared to be, she cold-shoulders Steve's overtures when they meet at a rock club, but relents when their paths | cross later the same evening. They are a sympathetic couple, with similar tastes and ideas. Steve is a traffic plan- ner, whose pet project is the ‘Super Train, a visionary scheme to get Seat- tle’s commuters out of their cars and onto rail transportation. He lives in a two-storey block of single apartment units, where his neighbours include an ex-lover, Janet; she is currently besot- ted with the tenant below her, Cliff, an aspiring rock star with his grunge band Citizen Dick. Across the court- yard is Debbie, single and desperate enough to apply to a video-dating com- pany. They all congregate in the coffee shop where Janet and Cliff work (he is also an artist and a delivery man for a flower company), and Steve is inun- dated with conflicting advice about how to handle this new, special rela- tionship. His pal Bailey prevails on him to wait a few days after their date before calling Linda, who takes offence. Meanwhile Debbie's dreamy video-date is stolen by her roommate, and Janet decides she needs breast | implants to regain the attention of | Cliff, who takes her for granted and has an eye for groupies. Reassured by an admiring surgeon, Dr Jamison, she pulls back from the brink and breaks up with Cliff. Linda and Steve's romance survives the shock of her pregnancy. Steve pro- posed and she accepts, but after losing the baby in a car accident, Linda decides to take part in a month-long environmental research project off the Alaska coast. When she returns, they resolve to be ‘just friends’, Steve leaves a drunken declaration of love on Linda's answer phone, but the tape is mangled and she never hears it. On top of this the Super Train plan is rejected by the mayor and Steve is out of a job. Cliff realises how much he needs Janet and proves himself a new man in his gallant efforts to win her back. Debbie finds her perfect mate purely by chance, while Linda and Steve get back together. For his second movie as a direc- tor, Cameron Crowe has gone back to a script he began in 1983, the logical follow-up to his screenplay Fast Times at Ridgemont High (for which, famously, the 21-year-old Rolling Stone reporter enrolled in high school incog- nito) and its little-regarded sequel The Wild Life (directed by Crowe's producer, Art Linson). In fact Singles might be The Wild Life made over - they both con- cern newly independent young adults in a singles apartment complex, How- ever, any comparison between the two movies could only underline the over- whelming superiority of the new film, which is mature, romantic and percep- tive where its predecessor was callow, puerile and blinkered. Like Fast Times, Singles is an ensemble piece and an entree into a specific sub- culture. The emotional tribulations of half-a-dozen young people (five really: much of Jim True’s role appears to have been lost in the editing) are use- fully seen against the bohemian milieu of downtown Seattle. Crowe brings to bear the thorough research and objective scrutiny of a good inves- tigative reporter, and more especially, the informed ear of an experienced rock critic: the thriving Seattle sound figures prominently, as you might expect, represented live by grunge bands like Alice In Chains and Soundgarden, while the soundtrack is enriched with apposite selections from REM, The Pixies and even John Coltrane, Music plays more than a background role in this film: it brings people together, defines who they are. Cliff. the lead singer of Citizen Dick, with his anthem ‘Touch Me, I'm Dick’, Steve is fondly remembered by his old classmates as the only disc jockey who could mix Elvis Costello and Public Enemy, and the first thing Linda does on seeing his apartment is check out the record collection for compatability (Hendrix, The Clash, Tom Jones). Crowe's twentysomethings see identity as a question of style choices, and they are at age when the options are still relatively open, A life partner is the ultimate matching accessory. Linda introduces herself via her house — the first she can call her own — and the most precious token she can give a lover is the remote control for her garage door. Debbie refashions her image via a video dating agency (Tim Burton appears briefly as the director of her video, a pastiche of Psycho and Superman). Janet considers having breast implants but ends up suggesting a new hairstyle for her doctor. These character are unformed, yup- pies without upward mobility, but Crowe and his personable cast make their vulnerability vivid and engaging. Subjective techniques like monologue to camera and dramatised recollec- tions provide for some of the film's sharpest insights into both sides of the brinksmanship central to the dating scene. Crowe is not a showy director, but his film has a relaxed, rambling structure and the hip, ironic tone to complement Seattle’s boho atmos- phere (vide ‘chapters’ with headings like ‘Have Fun - Stay Single’ and ‘Blues For A T-Shirt’ and the au fait casting of LA Law's Sheila Kelley and thirtysome- thing’s Peter Horton as a video agency dream date). It is only when he feels compelled to inject a dramatic crisis that Crowe falls back on melodramatic cliché: Linda loses her baby in a car accident; Steve's declaration of love falls foul of a malfunctioning answer- phone. If Crowe sees himself as the “realist-slash-dreamer” Steve is des- cribed as, his romanticism is of a more predictable kind than his keen social observation; the real pleasure of Singles is neatly encapsulated in its last ironic exchange: “Does everybody go through this?” “No, I think just us...” Tom Charity a Traces of Red USA 1992 Director: Andy Wolk Certificate 15 Distributor Entertainment Samuel Goldwyn Company Executive Producer David V. Picker Producer Mark Gordon Production Associate Patrick Lynn Production Co-ordinator Elayne Keratsis Unit Production Manager Tom Luse Location Manager Mary Morgan Post-production Supervisor Ron Payne Casting Ellen Jacoby Assistant Directors David Sardi Melanie Grefe-Feder Screenplay Jim Piddock Director of Photography Tim Subrstedt In colour Additional Photography Don Burgess 2nd Unit Camera Operator/Steadicam Operator Mark V. Van Loon Editor Trudy Ship Production Dan Bishop Dianna Freas Art Director Richard Fojo Set Decorator Nancy Sivitz Set Dressers Peter K. Benson Bill Von Ohlen Kevin J. Long On-set: Daniel Fisher Lead Scenic Artist Michael Brown Special Effects Co-ordinator J. B. Jones Special Effects Foreman Mare Banich Music Graeme Revell Additional Music Arrangements Megan Cavallari Philip Tallman Music Editor Dick Bernstein Costume Design Hilary Rosenfeld Costume Supervisor Lynette Bernay Sheila Walker Additional: Diane Maurno Lorraine Bracco: Angelo Dibiasi Title Design Dan Perri ‘Supervising Sound Editors Christopher Sheldon Dane A. Davis ‘Sound Editors Martin J. Bram Maciek Malish ADR Group Co-ordinator Burton Sharp Foley Editors Tom Hammond Nicholas Forshager Sound Recordists Steve C, Aaron Sound Re-recordists Stanley Kastner John Boyd Sound Effects Editors Kini Kay Todd Toon Foley Artists Ossama Khuluki Catherine Harper Production Assistants Tom Barone Sheila R. Myers Nicholas D'Alleva Kelly Erin Welton Alison Troy Jodi Shapera John Guss ‘Stunt Co-ordinator Artie Malesci Cast James Belushi Jack Dobson Ellen Schofield Faye Grant Lieutenant J. C Hooks Victoria Bass Susan Dobson Melanie Tomlin Amanda Jim Piddock Mr Martyn Ed Amatrudo Emilio Daniel Tucker Kamin Prosecuter Dan Ayaroff Harriet Grinnell Louis Dobson Lindsey Jayde Sapp Nancy Frayn Mario Ernesto Sanchez Tony Garidi Joseph C, Hess Minnesota Will Knickerbocker Tommy Hawkins Edgar Allen Poo lV lan Wicks Jutian Byrd Squeeze Club Bartender Billy Garriques Phillip Norris Lori Creevay Ellen's Receptionist Michael George Owens Key West Priest Tom Amick Wurtz’s Friend Rex Benson Hotel Manager John T. Howe Funeral Priest Stevie B’s Patron Junior Biggs Snakepit Bartender Katheryn Culliver Pierce Kimberly Davis Gregory L. Richter Honor Guard Leader Renate Schlesinger Ingrid 9,409 feet 105 minutes Palm Beach. Police detective Jack Dobson meets his brother Michael, a candidate for state senator, for dinner, along with Jack’s partner Steve Frayn and his wife Beth, and Ellen Schofield, a rich widow with whom Jack is involved. After dinner Jack picks up Morgan Cassidy, a wait- ress at the restaurant, and takes her to his apartment where they make love. While investigating the killing of a hooker, Kimberly Davis, Jack receives anonymous verses, sealed with a lip- stick kiss, which relate to the murder. Morgan is found killed, her mouth smeared with lipstick similar to that on the letters - a brand, Jack discovers, used both by Ellen and by Beth Frayn. A further anonymous verse mentions Gloria Wurtz who, Jack tells Steve, was his first-grade teacher who sexually abused him and was jailed for it. When Steve flies to Key West in search of Gloria's son (who proves to be dead), Ellen comes to his hotel and seduces him. Jack, finding out, stages a jealous scene on Steve's return, Sus- pecting Steve's infidelity, Beth is fur- ther alarmed when the clothes of both Kimberly and Morgan turn up in her house, Jack takes Beth to his country cabin for safety. Steve drives to Ellen's house, where he finds her murdered; a trail leads him to Michael Dobson, who tells him Gloria Wurtz was innocent: Jack's true molester was their mother. At Jack’s apartment Steve and Michael discover incriminating evi- dence, Steve speeds to Jack’s cabin and shoots him as he seems about to attack Beth. Michael arranges for Jack to receive a hero's funeral. Michael visits Amanda, a member of his campaign staff whom Jack once dated, As he starts to strangle her, Steve bursts in, followed by Jack, who staged his own death when he realised his brother was framing him. Michael grabs Jack's gun and shoots himself dead. “Nothing’s what it seems here’, Jack's voice-over tells us at the outset of the film, as his corpse is loaded into an ambulance and we're eased into a long flashback. The warn- ing is timely, since this shameless nod to Sunset Boulevard is just the first of a series of audience-misdirection devices culminating in a faked funeral. Along the way, the circle of suspicion widens steadily and virtually all the major characters take turns at acting omi- nous, just to keep us wondering. Which would be absolutely fine, were it done with any subtlety or style. Instead, Traces of Red is lumbered with a slapdash plot and a script of clumping heavy-handedness, with acting to match, As the hero, James Belushi con- veys frustration by punching several inoffensive walls, while Lorraine Bracco breathes and undulates in a dis- play of high-octane vampery that might have embarrassed Theda Bara. Despite which, the bedroom scenes are dismally tepid. Traces of Red bills itself as “an erotic thriller’. but only the most undemanding viewer could find much to thrill in this stumbling effort. Philip Kemp SIGHT AND SOUND 58|2 Mark Kermode reviews this month's rental/ rental premiere releases and William Green new retail/retail premiere videos 60|2 SIGHT ANDSOUND | Highs Reviews in Monthly Film Bulletin (MFB) and Sight and Sound are cited in parentheses Se aS Rental Blue Ice Guild 8683 USA 1992 Certificate 15 Director Russell Mulcahy | Tacky, incoherent and unconvincing revival of Michael Caine’s Harry Palmer character, now thinly disguised as Harry Anders. The ex-secret service agent is lured out of retirement by Sean Young. Big bangs ensue. (S&S December 1992) The Cutting Edge MGMJUA PEV 52315 USA 1992 Certificate PG Director Pau) Michael] Glaser * Terrific fleet-footed, tongue-in-cheek comedy snappily directed by Glaser. Former ice hockey jock teams up with a snooty figure skating champion to | win an Olympic Gold. (S&S July 1992) Far and Away | CIC VHA 1597 | USA 1992 Certificate 15 Director Ron Howard Slushy but enjoyable melodrama about two Irish runaways (Tom Cruise and Nicole Kidman) discovering a new life in America. Cruise’s accent is dismal, but Howard's direction is overwhelming. (S&S August 1992) Boxing clever: ‘Gladiator’ the walls of the Kremlin and KGB headquarters, Konchalovsky’s authentic tale of the horrors of life under Stalin is | peculiarly Westernised: US and British actors speak in cod Russian accents and | the USSR is portrayed as hell on earth. (S&S June 1992) | Johnay Suede Artificial Eye ART 903 USA/Switzerland/France 1991 Certificate 15 Director Tom DiCillo * DiCillo’s feature debut is a low-Key joy, a witty examination of modern love seen through the eyes of a dreamer obsessed with the 50s. Brad Pitt is great in the lead, balancing self-conscious cool with dorkiness. (S&S July 1992) Gladiator Columbia Tristar CVT 13644 USA 1992 Certificate 15 Director Rowdy Herrington * The best boxing movie of the year, Herrington’s rumbustious bash-em-up is 98 minutes of hard-hitting action and square-jawed stand-offs. A poor white kid (James Marshall) fights for his father’s | life in a tough neighbourhood. (S&S July 1992, wrongly entitled The Gladiator) The Inner Circle Columbia Tristar CVT 13646 Italy 1991 Certificate 15 Director Andrei Konchalovsky Incorporating footage shot within | Breaking the ice: y m : D.B. Sweeney and Moira Kelly in ‘The Cutting Edge’ My Cousin Vinny FoxVideo 1876 USA 1992 Certificate 15 Director Jonathan Lynn Joe Pesci is in fine comic form as a New York lawyer out of his depth defending his cousin against a murder charge in Alabama. Lively support from Marisa Tomei and Fred Gwynne. (S&S July 1992) The Rapture 20.20 NVT 11620 | USA 1991 Certificate 18 Director Michael Tolkin * An audacious attempt to discredit fundamentalist Christianity by | portraying literally the events which | ‘rapturists’ believe will end the world. Tolkin’s script is witty and intelligent, Mimi Rogers and David Duchovny are seductive leads, and the depiction of Armaggedon as a bad John Boorman movie is spot on. (S&S July 1992) Scorchers CBS Fox 2950 USA 1991 Certificate 18 Director David Beaird Dreary erotic adventure set in America’s Deep South where three women (Faye Dunaway, Meg Tilly and Emily Lloyd) wrestle with their sexual passions and anxieties. (S&S May 1992) Straight Talk Buena Vista B914492 USA 1992 Certificate PG Director Barnet Kellman * Although the premise is unpromising (a small-town girl bluffs her way into a job as a radio doctor) this is actually a thigh-slapping comedy replete with snappy one-liners. James Woods injects a salutory grimy note. (S&S July 1992) Turtle Beach 20.20 NVT 12966 Australia 1992 Certificate 15 Director Stephen Wallace Dull right-on fare which purports to deal with racial tension in Kuala Lumpur. Greta Scacchi is wooden as ace Australian reporter Judith Wilkes who exposes the treatment of Vietnamese boat people. (S&S July 1992) Voyager Curzon Video CV 0011 Germany/France 1991 Certificate 15 Director Volker Schléndorff A langorous, atmospheric traipse through a world of collapsing technology played out via a classic Greek tragedy narrative. A wandering soul (Sam Shepard) is attracted to a young free- spirit who reminds him of his lost wife. (NB This version, identical to the theatrical release, runs at 108 minutes [25 fps} not 100 minutes [24 fps] as printed in S&S February 1992) SS a Rental premiere American Me CIC VHA 1576 USA 1992 Certificate 18 Director Edward James Olmos Producers Sean Daniel, Robert M. Young, Edward James Olmos Screenplay Floyd Mutrux, Desmond Nakano Lead Actors Edward James Olmos, William Forsythe, Pepe Serna, Evelina Fernandez 121 minutes * Easily rental premiere of the month. A grim but unexploitative depiction of gang warfare in LA, prison life and the inability of ex-cons to adapt on the outside. Hispanic anti-hero Santana (Olmos) is arrested as a child and indoctrinated with the Folsom Prison blues. Low-key direction, solid performances and an intelligent script. Chrome Soldiers CIC VHB 2681 | USA 1992 Certificate 15 Director Thomas J. Wright Producer Derek Kavanagh Screenplay Nick Randall, story by Ross LaManna, John McCormick Lead Actors Gary Busey, Ray Sharkey, William Atherton, Norman Skaggs 88 minutes A Vietnam veteran (Busey) teams up with a gang of bikers to investigate and avenge the death of his brother in his small- town home. This is sanitised fare, lacking thrills, action, or narrative surprises. Child of Rage Odyssey ODY328 USA 1992 Certificate 15 Director Larry Peerce Producer David Shepard Teleplay Phil Penningroth, Suzette Pouture Lead Actors Mel Harris, Dwight Schultz, Mariette Hartley, Ashley Peldon 94 minutes * An accomplished and uncompromising true-life TV drama, by turns gut-wrenching, horrifying and tear- | jerking. Seven-year-old Peldon turns in a magnificent performance as a homicidal child, eager to slaughter her parents and assault her brother in return for abuse suffered at the hands of her father. Class Act Warner PEV 12530 USA 1992 Certificate 15 Director Randall Miller Producers Todd Black, Maynell Thomas Screenplay John Semper, Cynthia Friedlob Lead Actors Christopher Reid, Christopher Martin, Rhea Perlman, Meshach Taylor 94 minutes High school antics with rap soundtrack. Two chalk-and-cheese pupils have their school records switched, sparking a comedy of mistaken identities. Cool Asice CIC VHA 1546 USA 1991 Certificate PG Director David Kellog Producers Carolyn Pfeiffer, Lionel Wigram Screenplay David Stenn Lead Actors Vanilla Ice, Kristin Minter, Michael Gross, Candy Clark 89 minutes Pop video-style musical featuring the limited talents of white-boy rapper Vanilla Ice, Hard livin’ biker Johnny tempts square Kathy with his dreadful clothes and dreary music. Doctor Mordrid CIC VHB 2697 USA 1992 Certificate 15 Directors Albert Band, Charles Band Producers Keith Payson, Charles Band Screenplay C. Courtney Joyner Lead Actors Jeffrey Combs, Yvette Nipar, Jay Acovone, Brian Thompson 89 minutes Sub-Corman nonsense from trash maestro Band. Clash between two ancient wizards representing the forces of good and evil. Duplicates CIC VHB 2653 USA 1991 Certificate 15 Director Sandor Stern Producer Robert M. Rolsky Screenplay Sandor Stern, Andrew Neiderman Lead Actors Gregory Harrison, Kim Greist, Lane Smith, Cicely Tyson 90 minutes Lively but unoriginal sci-fi cheapie boosted by straight-faced performances from a sporadically talented cast. Two parents searching for their missing son stumble upon the fiendish Sandberg Institute, where human replicants are programmed with new memories. . = ~~ Family plot: Joe Pesci defends his cousin Vinny Father and Son Columbia Tristar CVT 116889 USA 1992 Certificate 18 Director Georg Stanford Brown Executive Producers Peter Locke, Donald Kushner Screenplay Walter Halsey Davis Lead Actors Lou Gossett Jnr, Blair Underwood, Rae Dawn Chong, Tony Plana 90 minutes A tough jailbird (Gossett, typically hard-nosed) is reunited with the son he abandoned when he ends up in the same prison. Emotional traumas and violent confrontations ensue. Hard-hitting cable-TV fodder. The Fear Inside Medusa MC 385 USA 1992 Certificate 15 Director Leon Ichaso Producer John Broderick Screenplay David Birke Lead Actors Christine Lahti, Dylan McDermott, Jennifer Rubin 90 minutes * A superior psychological chiller, low on physical violence but high on atmospheric tension and satisfying surprises. An agoraphobic woman (Lahti) invites terror into her home in the shape of two childishly twisted killers. Rubin is convincingly cracked as the immature anti-heroine and even McDermott is less wooden than usual. The Heart of the Lie Odyssey ODY 333 USA 1992 Certificate 15 Director/Producer Jerry London Screenplay Larry Barber, Paul Barber Lead Actors Timothy Busfield, Lindsay Frost, John Karlen, John Pleshette, Linda Blair 84 minutes Dull true-life TV drama depicting the trial of one-time pin-up turned cop Bambi Bembenek, accused of murdering her husband's ex-wife. Linda Blair fails to inject any pizzazz into the proceedings. Honour Thy Mother CIC VHA 1607 USA 1992 Certificate 15 Director David Greene Producer Harvey Frand Screenplay Richard ; Delong Adams, Robert L. Freedman Lead Actors Sharon Gless, William McNamara, Brian Wimmer 90 minutes True-life TV drama about an attack on Bonnie Von Stein's home in which her husband was killed, and for which her son was a prime suspect. Unremarkable. | Innocent Young Female 20.20 NVT 19420 USA 1992 Certificate 18 Director Bobby Houston Producers Terry Kahn, Ed Elbert, Gregory Vanger Screenplay Bobby Houston, Lisa Sutton Lead Actors Deborah May, David Keith, Ray Sharkey, Loretta Devine 99 minutes A young man poses as a prison governor to rescue his fiancée from prison. Sets out to be standard ‘women behind bars’ sleaze but mutates midway into an engagingly ridiculous thriller. Invasion of Privacy | Hi-Fliers HFV 8222 USA 1992 Certificate 18 Director Kevin Meyer Producer Ashok Amritraj Screenplay Kevin Way out: ‘The Arsenal Stadium Mystery’ Meyer Lead Actors Robby Benson, Jennifer O'Neill, Lydie Denier, Ian Ogilvy 92 minutes Formulaic ‘psycho-in-our-midst’ thriller, ploddingly written but entertainingly executed. Power-dressed humanist journalist Hillary Wayne (O'Neill) adopts a violent ex-con with an obsessive streak. Benson is great fun as the finger stabbing, anally-retentive loony. Project Shadowchaser First Independent VA 20176 USA 1992 Certificate 15 Director John Eyres Producers Geoff Griffiths, John Eyres Screenplay Stephen Lister Lead Actors Martin Kove, Meg Foster, Frank Zagarino 94 minutes Sprightly sci-fi/action-adventure hybrid, shamelessly ripped-off from Die Hard, Terminator and (surprisingly) Sleeper. FBI agents mistakenly ‘thaw out’ a frozen football hero to fight an android which has taken over a high-rise hospital. Pyrates Columbia Tristar CVT 18585 USA 1991 Certificate 18 Director Noah Stern Producer Johnathan Furie Screenplay Noah Stern Lead Actors Kevin Bacon, Kyra Sedgwick, | Bruce Martin Payne, Kristin Dattilo 92 minutes Unfunny sex comedy about two young lovers whose steamy exploits cause the spontaneous combustion of objects around them. Straight-to-camera monologues and other pseudo-arty narrative disruption techniques add to the general irritation, Romper Stomper Medusa MO 388 Australia 1992 Certificate 18 Director Geoffrey Wright Producers Daniel Scharf, Ian Pringle Screenplay Geoffrey Wright Lead Actors Russell Crowe, Daniel Pollock, Jacqueline McKenzie, Alex Scott 90 minutes * A powerful, ambitious and flawed depiction of skinhead life in Australia which eschews moralising commentary. Crowe and Pollock's performances are flawless and the script is grittily realistic, | but the absence of any perspective other | than that of the violent skinheads is worrying. Thought-provoking, Samantha First Independent VA 20177 USA 1991 Certificate 15 Director Stephen La Rocque Producer Donald P, Borchers Screenplay John Golden, Stephen La Rocque Lead Actors Martha Plimpton, Dermot Mulroney, Hector Elizondo, Mary Kay Place, lone Skye 97 minutes A feisty young woman (Plimpton) is | shocked to discover that she is adopted and heads off in search of her real parents in this oddball romantic comedy, ee 5 see Retail The Arsenal Stadium Mystery Connoisseur CR 099 UK 1939 Price £12.99 Certificate PG Director Thorold Dickinson * Amused and amusing, the exquisite Leslie Banks solves a murder mystery at SIGHT AND SOUND 61/2 | Highbury (dribbling through a whole football team of suspects) while | rehearsing the Scotland Yard Christmas | pantomime. Highly recommended. | B/W (MEB No. 71) Mayfair Video CV 0010 USA 1990 Price £15.99 Certificate 15 Director Simon Callow Callow’s debut feature, adapted from Carson McCullers’ novella, is a lurid piece of Deep South gothic, notable fora bloody fistfight between Keith Carradine and Vanessa Redgrave. (MFB No. 687) Boys Will Be Boys Connoisseur CR 100 UK 1935 Price £12.99 Certificate U Director William Beaudine * Classic Gainsborough comedy, the first of music-hall star Will Hay’s many anarchic assaults on the dignity of the teaching profession. When downwardly mobile Narkover School gets Hay as their new headmaster chaos naturally ensues. B/W (MEB No. 19) Evergreen Connoisseur CR 097 UK 1934 Price £12.99 Certificate U Director Victor Saville * Director Saville and showgirl star Jessie Matthews have never received enough credit for their glamorous musical comedies made for the Gaumont-British studios in the 30s. The backstager Evergreen borrows from America with its mass choreography and Rodgers and Hart songs. B/W (MFB No. 4) Une Femme est une femme Electric EP 0019 France 1961 Price £15.99 Certificate PG Director Jean-Luc Godard * Anightclub stripper forsakes boyfriend Jean-Claude Brialy for his friend Jean-Paul Belmondo. One of cinema’s great love letters, with Godard's camera obsessively focusing on Anna Karina's face, Subtitles Widescreen (MFB No. 400) First a Girl Connoisseur CR 098 UK 1935 Price £12.99 Certificate U Director Victor Saville * First a Girl adapts the German musical Viktor und Viktoria (later reworked by Blake Edwards as Victor/Victoria) but the sexual guilelessness and Jessie Matthews’ chirpy style are authentically English. B/W (MEB No. 22) 62/2 SIGHT ANDSOUND | French with tears: Anna Karina and Jean-Claude Brialy in ‘Une Femme est une femme’ The Icicle Thief (Ladri di saponette) Tartan Video TVT 0308 (Laser Disc TVL 030) Italy 1989 Price £15.99 (Laser Disc £29.99) Certificate PG Director Maurizio Nichetti * Poking cruel fun at society's consumption of images, Nichetti plays _ with the idea of a film-within-a-film. An yK excellent farce. Subtitles (MFB No. 682) ls SS ee \. Electric EP 0020 France 1960 Price £15.99 Certificate PG Director Jacques Demy * Although lacking music for dancing and colour for costumes, Demy’s first film (set in Nantes) still comes over with confidence, Cabaret girl Anouk Aimée is wooed by several men, but it's the father of her child who is her true love. B/W Subtitles Widescreen (MFB No. 337) Marked for Death Fox Video 1865 USA 1990 Price £10.99 Certificate 18 Director Dwight H. Little Routinely brutal martial arts vigilante thriller, a vehicle for grim-faced action man Steven Seagal. With Joanna Pacula and Keith David. (S&S June 1991) Pete Kelly's Blues Tartan Video BVD 11736 (Laser Disc TVL 019) : USA 1955 Price £13.99 (Laser Disc £29.99) Certificate PG Director Jack Webb * A personal project for jazz fan and Dragnet star Webb. The mannered atmosphere suits the soundtrack perfectly. With a wonderful speakeasy jazz background and an extraordinary cast — Peggy Lee, Lee Marvin, Edmond O'Brien, Janet Leigh and Ella Fitzgerald. Widescreen (MFB No, 262) Pierrot le fou Electric EP 0018 France 1965 Price £15.99 Certificate 15 Director Jean-Luc Godard * Climactic film of the maverick director's first and most creative period. A writer (Jean-Paul Belmondo) embarks on a doomed runaway romance with a woman (Anna Karina) - an old story shot through with extravagant colour symbolism and personal anguish. Subtitles Widescreen (MFB No. 679) A Strange Place to Meet (Dréle d’endroit pour une rencontre) Artificial Eye ART 050 France 1988 Price £15.99 Certificate 15 Director Francois Dupeyron * A Gallic Brief Encounter with Gérard Depardieu and Catherine Deneuve as two unhappy souls stranded together in the friendless confines of a motorway service station. Their acting makes up for the lack of locomotion. Subtitles (MFB No. 669) Volere, Volare Qs Tartan Video TVT 0298 (Laser Disc TVL 029) Italy 1991 Price £15.99 (Laser Disc £29.99) Certificate 15 Directors Maurizio Nichetti, Guido Manuli * Nichetti’s follow-up to the delightful Icicle Thief (see above) is a lightweight romantic comedy about a shy young man whose courtship is frustrated when he finds himself turning into a cartoon. Subtitles (S&S May 1992) Retail collection | Fox Video 3004/3005/3009/3010 | Price £10.99 each The Gold Rush/Pay Day USA 1925 (re-edited 1942)/1922 Certificate U * Chaplin's most durable silent comedy, with prospector Charlie half-starved in a frozen hut with hungry Mack Swain and reduced to eating his bootlaces. In Pay Day Chaplin plays a labourer spending his Friday night on the town. B/W Silent (MFB No. 272) The Circus/A Day's Pleasure USA 1919/1927 Certificate U * Awarded a special Oscar at the first Academy Award ceremony, The Circus puts every possible big top prop to ingenious use, making the maudlin love interest just about bearable, In A Day's Pleasure, Charlie takes Edna Purviance and the kids out for a ride in the family's unreliable Model-T Ford. B/W Silent (No MFB reference) |. Monsieur Verdoux USA 1947 Certificate PG * A personal catastrophe for Chaplin, since this film lost him the affection of the public, Monsieur Verdoux has subsequently been critically reinstated as his blackest and most subtle comedy, His Verdoux is a charming French ladykiller who does away with rich, elderly conquests. B/W (MFB No. 167) Limelight USA 1951 Certificate U A sentimental tale of an ageing music- hall entertainer, this was the director's final American film before his exile and decline in Switzerland. An emotional personal testimony and a last bow (of sorts) to his old screen persona. With Claire Bloom and Buster Keaton. B/W (MFB No. 226) =a Retail premiere Manga Video MANV 1008 Japan 1989 Price £12.99 Certificate 18 Director Hideko Takayama Producers Yasuhito Yamaki, Yoshinobu Nishikazi Screenplay Noboru Aikawa, Toshio Maeda, John O'Donnell, Laurence Guinness 108 minutes Formula heroics, facile science fiction futurism, slavering monsters and tediously repetitive violence — the animated fantasies of the Manga school have everything to satisfy the adolescent mind. This one spices up the menu with some startlingly graphic cartoon porn. English version, Letters are welcome, and should be addressed to the Editor at Sight and Sound, British Film Institute, 21 Stephen Street, London WIP 1PL Facsimile 071 436 2327 A question of context From Guy Barefoot The interesting discussions of Dracula in the January issue included the observations by Kim Newman that the different film ver- sions of Bram Stoker's novel have come at times of “major economic and_ social upheavals”, and that “Dracula evidently appeals to nations in crisis. Can he there- fore identify the intervening years of stabil- ity during which Dracula did not appeal? He locates the different films during: the “chaos of Weimar” - but then German his- tory following (and preceding) the Weimar Republic was not exactly short on upheaval; the Great Depression - normally taken to have lasted throughout the 30s, a period followed by the upheaval of wartime; Britain's post-Suez “loss of imperial clout" - though Britain's loss of Empire has been a fairly protracted experience; and during the crisis and recession accompanying the replacements of Presidents Carter and Bush ~ but American Presidents get elected every four years, so to choose a year within a year of an election covers quite a lot of territory (just as the observation that the Spanish El Conde Dracula came at the “historical turn- ing point” of four years before Franco's death seems ingenious to say the least). His statement about Dracula appealing to nations in crisis makes one wonder why there aren't more Dracula movies coming out of Russia at the moment. The quick answer to that question is that Dracula is a western myth about the (near) east. More generally, Newman's own emphasis on the diversity of Dracula films suggests a more complex relationship between the story and the society; if the 1930 version appealed because of the Depression, what was the appeal of the 1927 stage version it was based on; if the 1958 version is to be related to imperial decline, how does that relate to the publication of Stoker's novel in 1897, the year of the imperial celebration of Queen Victoria's Diamond Jubilee? Apart from noting the way in which myths shift over time, social context might be accompanied here by some attention to the context provided by the film industry. Put simply, if Britain produced a lot of Drac- ula movies in the 60s and none in the 80s it does not mean that there was upheaval under Wilson and peace and harmony under Thatcher; on the other hand Britain did have a film industry in the 60s and only the bare bones of one in the 80s. London NW4 Spot the replicant From Steven O'Donoghue With regard to Philip Strick’s article on the new cut of Blade Runner (S&S December), I would like to add to the debate of whether Deckard is a replicant or a human. Just before the final game of hide-and- seek between Deckard and Roy Batty, the replicant addresses him by name, even though the two have not met before in the film. How does Batty know it is him, even though he catches only a momentary glimpse as he evades Deckard's gun? Either Deckard's reputation as a blade runner is known throughout the colonies, hence making his face known among the repli- cant population, or the pair have met before, This latter premise may fit with the ‘missing replicant’ theory outlined in Strick’s article, whereby Deckard was part of the original replicant team. If his memo- ries were altered after his capture, he would be the perfect hunter for the other repli- cants. A case of: set a replicant to catch a replicant. Doubt could also be cast over Rachael's alleged identity, especially as her childhood memories of a spider, which lived outside her bedroom window, are clearly echoed in the Voight-Kampf test administered by Deckard. There is endless room for speculation. London E2 Black and white in colour From Veronica Hitchcock On Christmas morning, BBC2 showed its first, albeit quasi, colourised film. Jacques Tati’s 1947 black and white Jour de féte had been touched up here and there with spot colours. At the fairground some of the horses’ harnesses were coloured, the tri- colour was tinted in red, white and blue, but worst of all, additional coloured stream- ers were superimposed over the picture, so that when the camera moved, the stream- ers in red, white and blue remained static, creating an odd appearance. Throughout the film ludicrous spot colour was used. Jour de féte has been shown on numerous occasions in its original black and white form, so | am unable to believe that an uncoloured print does not exist. Further- more, Radio Times ran a billing that stated in minuscule type that the film was “B/w and colour", so someone must have made a con- scious decision to play this version. No black and white films are now ever shown in peak BBC1 viewing time, though | feel sure the BBC would dearly love to be able to show colourised films. When Michael Grade was still Managing Director of BBC television, | remember him saying apropos colourisation that he might wel- come it, but that where the work of living directors was concerned, care and tact would need to be exercised. Hang on in there, Fred Zinnemann. London SW1 Negative images From Lydia Popowich As a disabled film student I was dismayed to read Kim Newman's review of The Waterdance (S&S December). The offensive and demean- ing language used in this account, for example, “cripple” and “chairbound”, clearly shows Kim Newman's prejudice and ignorance about disability. The general tone of the review is from an ‘ableist’ viewpoint, presenting disability as a tragic problem to be resolved on an individual level and not a problem of society and its attitudes. Such a discriminatory attitude reflects the film industry's general failure to por- tray disabled people and their varied lives realistically. Obsessed with the body beauti- ful and narrow definitions of sexuality, films persist in circulating negative images which reinforce the fear and ignorance of the non-disabled. Disability is often exploited as a metaphor in films such as Awakenings and Bitter Moon, or reduced to simple stereotypes, as for example in Dr Strangelove. Disability is an ordinary fact of life for many people with experiences as disability: Eric Stoltz in ‘The Waterdance’ boring, exciting, happy or sad as any non- disabled persons. Disabled people are not pathetic freaks constantly battling with problems and ‘coming to terms’ with dread- ful conditions. Many of us have fun in life and, believe it or not, even fulfilling sexual relationships, contrary to Kim Newman's expectations. The Waterdance is yet another disability movie falling into the familiar trap of defining disability as a medical not a social problem. The film is set in a rehabilitation centre and the characters are shown as hav- ing an essentially bleak future, either dependant and suicidal in an institution or alone, abandoned by families, with the occasional outing to a strip club for sexual gratification which cannot be obtained in ordinary relationships. Even the most posi- tive character, Garcia, renounces his chance of happiness by giving up his lover to an able-bodied husband; choosing platonic friendship instead of sexual love. As in Com- ing Home and Born on the Fourth of July, the nature of masculinity is really the issue here. Is an erect penis really the defining characteristic of true manhood? Sex and disability is not the huge prob- lem Kim Newman and The Waterdance assume. The huge problem is social preju- dice and a culture dominated by negative and inaccurate images of disability, aided and abetted by your magazine. Newcastle-upon-Tyne Top twenty From Amy Taubin As the go-between for Aki Kaurismaki’s top ten (S&S December), | feel responsible for seeing that it gets into print as he wanted it (and not as your editors saw fit to amend it). Had I not led Kaurismaki to believe, as 1 believed, that it would be possible to bend the idiotic rule of ten films, I doubt that he would have participated. Tokyo Story, Casque d'or, Touch of Evil and The Trial, Cyrano de Bergerac (Michael Gordon), La ilusién viaja en tranvia (Butiuel), Bande a part and the others by Godard, White Reindeer (Erik Blomberg), The Night of the Hunter, Mouchette, High Sierra plus everything by Chaplin, Harold Lloyd, the Marx Brothers, Laurel & Hardy, Keaton and W. C, Fields. Parallel list: A Matter of Life and Death, LAtalante, A Woman Under the Influence, Gertrud, Nanook of the North, Otis at Monterey (this is a 20-minute documentary by D, A. Pennebaker which was mysteriously transformed by your editors into Monterey Pop), The Human Beast, Mr. Moto, “Nicholas Lang's Rancho Guitar”, Shock Corridor, Ikiru, the work of Vasily Shukshin, especially The Red Snowball Tree. New York, US Corrections April 1992 p.61: Tacones Lejanos (High Heels): The song credit for “Un Ano de amor” should read: based on “C'est irréparable” and “Un anno d'amore” by N. Ferrer, G. Ver- lor, performed by Luz Casal. November 1992 p.5: The producers of Russia: The Missing Years are Castle Communica- tions, not Carlton Communications as stated. January 1993 p.22: In the Harvey Keitel inter- view, “Amos Poe" should read “Abel Fer- rara”; p.51: In the Reservoir Dogs photo cap- tion, the figure credited as Lawrence Tierney is in fact Steve Buscemi. SIGHT AND SOUND 63/2 l’s modern adventure ‘The reason for He could find no real ideology, no grand y. Unified theory. Technology and media excluding Hollywood’s could provide him with just what he is look- studio bosses was ing for, adding some character to an other- notanew mood wise potentially colourless administration. of Democratic They are one of the country’s few remain- ing areas of international pre-eminence, its egalitarianism, but telecommunications and computer indus- Bill’n’ Al’s interest tries being among the most powerful in their respective sectors, and its software ininformation and, suppliers - both computer software compa- specifically, inthe nies like Microsoft and media software new media’ companies like the Hollywood studios - « a a AA ASLEONT PH Benjamin Woolley Both Bill Clinton and Al Gore demand to be known by the diminutive forms of their first names. Presumably they hope this will add to their popular appeal. It never wor- ked for poor young Danforth. But perhaps it will work for Bill ‘n’ Al, two regular guys. Me 'n' Al go back a long way. He opened the 1989 Siggraph computer graphics con- vention with a pre-recorded, but nonethe- less very personal video address to me and the 30,000 or so other delegates. “Informa- tion", he portentously announced, “is exploding by leaps and bounds”. It’s a phrase that sticks in the mind, like a bad lyric, Empty it may be, but it shows that Al believes in information. And so, it emerges, does Bill. When he held his post-election agenda-setting con- ference, he made sure information was up there among the keynotes, The conference, held at Little Rock, was designed to give Clinton a few ideas for his administration, Participants from all walks of life and of all political shades were invited, and were given five minutes to voice their views. Con- spicuously omitted from the guestlist was the Hollywood establishment. People such as Michael Eisner, head of Walt Disney, were passed over in favour of people such as John Cooke, head of the Disney Channel, one of Eisner’s employees, The reason for excluding Hollywood's studio bosses was not a new mood of Demo- cratic egalitarianism, but Bill ‘n’ Al's inter- est in information and, specifically, in the ‘new media. Never mind about what the corporate crusties think, what do the kids want? What's new? The answers to these questions were to be supplied by the moguls of new media, not just the heads of channels like Disney and MTV, but the bosses of the high-tech- nology companies like John Sculley of Apple and Robert Allen of AT&T. These peo- ple are the visionaries of the new informa- tion age, when television, video, computers, hi-fi, games consoles, cable television, malls, theme parks and telephone networks will unite to create a new metamedium, the sort of medium that will give a political leader intimate interactive contact with his people, the sort of medium that will rede velop the wasteland that is contemporary American television into a lush new media meadow of limitless possibilities. The media meadow is a concept rich with powerful political symbolism. It could become Clinton's vision thing. During the campaign, he promised the American peo- ple little more than economic competence. unsurpassed in their domination of world markets, If Clinton’s administration can bring these industries together, perhaps it has the makings of a post-industrial strat- egy that will give the Japanese and Ger- mans something to think about. So far, only one proposal for this strategy has emerged. It is Al Gore’s enthusiasm for building what have been dubbed “informa- tion freeways”. These will be the high-capac- ity, broadband fibre-optic network connec- tions linking together the nation’s computers, from personal to super. His hope is that they will one day provide an information-age equivalent to the railroads and highways, that in their respective ages introduced a technological unity to what remains a potentially fractured nation. What exactly these information freeways will carry, how they will be controlled and according to which technical standards they will be interconnected, remains largely unspecified. Also, some industry figures are deeply sceptical about the gov- ernment, rather than the market, imposing such an infrastructure, But it is a seductive notion, replete with ready-made metaphors that invoke America’s dreamy past, its pio- neering days and the post-war years. The end of the Space Age can be identified as 28 January 1986, the date of the Challenger disaster. At that moment, technology seemed to lose the powerful political symbolism it once offered, a loss compounded by Dan Quayle's appointment as head of the space programme (an appointment that led to his most endearing gaffe, beginning an address with the words ‘Fellow astronauts...’), Now, Bill 'n’ Al may be about to rediscover that symbolism. In link- ing technology with the glamorous worlds of television and the movies, they may have found a new political message - and the message is the media. PROFESSOR POTEMKIN’S COMPETITION The correct answers to our Christmas quiz, ‘What The Dickens’, ran as follows: 1. Jodo Botelho; 2. Pip (Philip Pirrip); 3. ‘Otiver!’; 4. Diana Dors; 5. Mister Quilp; 6. Arthur Hopcraft; 7. ‘Nobody's Fault’; 8. ‘Scrooged’; 9, Edna May Oliver; 10. Alec Guinness. Grand winners Angus Tarn of Carshalton and John Filer of Louth were among the few entrants to spell everyone properly and supply the appropriate exclamation mark on Question 3. Lesley Campy, Pete Cockhill, Roy Eaglestone, Norman Pate, James Hamilton, Juan Lamela, R. M. Bermudez, M. Humphries, Keverne St Augustine? 6. Nuns go crazy in a Himalayan convent. Weston and Christine Perry werethe runners- | 2.Whowas nominated for an Oscar after In which film? up. For this month’s quiz, ‘The God Squad’, playing the Mother Abbess in ‘The Sound 7. What is the ecclesiastical connection we have three video box sets of Pedro of Music’? between Rex Harrison, Robbie Coltrane and Almodévar’s ‘Matador’ to be won. ‘Matador’ is released by Tartan Video on 22 February (video £15.99/laser disc £29.95). Answers by 15 February, please, to Professor Potemkin, Sight and Sound, 21 Stephen Street, London W1P 1PL. 1, Which Italian director made films about The Aposties, St Joan, St Francis and 3. Which inquisitive cleric was played by Alec Tom Conti? Guinness in the cinema, and later by Kenneth 8. In which recent adaptation of a Bernanos More on television? novel does Gérard Depardieu play a poor 4. By what name does Jean Simmons’ lady country priest? evangelist go in ‘Elmer Gantry’? 9. To what church do the defendants of 5. Father Flanagan (30s) and Father O’Malley “ACry in the Dark’ belong? (40s) were two popular screen priests. Which 10. Name any film in which Joan Collins has Hollywood stars played them? played a nun. Copyright © The British Film Institute, 1993. Registered corporate members of the British Film Institute wishing to reproduce individual synopses or reviews as notes for their screenings may do so without permission, provided that these notes are distributed free of charge, that Sight and Sound is credited as the source of the material, and that the above Copyright is also reproduced 64|2 SIGHT AND SOUND BRITISH PREMIERE AVILA AT THOMAS NEAL'S SPONSORED BY CARLON ADMIT ONE PLAYLAND WRITTEN & DIRECTED BY ATHOL FUGARD PRESENTED IN ASSOCIATION WITH MANNIE MANIM PRODUCTIONS soci ga “THIS IS A SUPERB PIECE OF THEATRE, STARK AND SIMPLE, WRITTEN WITH AND \ A\, s ” Y =\ FORCE, TENSION AND DEEP COMPASSION; AN UNFORGETTABLE EXPERIENCE jo Sunday Star, South Africa JOHN KANI SEAN TAYLOR “THE GENIUS OF ATHOL FUGARD IS... THAT HE OPENS THE MINDS OF 25 FEBRUARY - PLAYGOERS, ALLOWING ENTRANCE TO REMARKABLE INSIGHTS. THIS HAS 17 APRIL NEVER BEEN MORE EVIDENT THAN IN HIS NEW WORK, BROUGHT TO KICKING, 0) Ge) ia (@s SPITTING, VIRULENT LIFE BY JOHN KANI AND SEAN TAYLOR IN PERFORMANCES 071 867 1150 THAT THEMSELVES VERGE ON MASTERPIECES” The Star, South Africa For 30 years we ve been writing about the world’s most controversial issues. Now were available at a price no one can argue with m When the first issue of The New York Review appeared 30 years ago, it was greeted with an outpouring of such comments as “a virtual cultural revolution”... “the finest thing that’s happened in the literary world for decades”... and “of more cultural import for America than the opening of Lincoln Center.” The New York Times later said The New York Review of Books “has succeeded brilliantly because of its stubborn refusal to treat books, or the theatre and movies, for that matter, as categories of entertainment to be indulged in when the working day is done.” Each issue offers tremendous variety and intellectual excitement as the world’s best writers and scholars address themselves to more than 130,000 readers who represent something important in America... people who know that the widest range of subjects—literature, politics, science, history, art, music, and film— will be discussed on an intelligent, civilized level. In issue after issue, you'll find probing reviews on the most important books being published as well as criticism and commentary from celebrated writers as Elizabeth Hardwick, Norman Mailer, John Updike, Nadine Gordimer, Vaclav Havel, and Oliver Sacks. And now that we’ re celebrating our 30th Anniversary, we're giving you three great reasons to subscribe: Just £29.95 for 21 issues. That's a full year of The New York Review of Books, at nearly 25% off the subscription price (and over £9 off the newsstand price). A free gift. Subscribe to The New York Review of Books, and receive a special softcover Anthology commemorating our 30th Anniversary. The Anthology includes essays originally published in The Review about some of the most important political and cultural events of the last 30 years. A risk-free guarantee. [f you're unhappy with your subscription you may cancel and we will refund any unused portion of the subscription cost, at any time. What’s more, the Anthology is yours to keep, as our gift to you. Celebrate The New York Review’s 30th Anniversary by paying just £29.95 for 21 issues ‘The New York Review of Books Please return this coupon to: Subscriber Service Dept., c/o Fitzgerald, PO Box 923, London W2 1XA Yes! Please enter my subscription to The New York Review for a full year (21 issues) at the special introductory rate of £29.95. With my paid subscription, I will also receive the 30th Anniversary Anthology, a paper- back collection of 16 essays published in The Review over the past 30 years. I understand that I may cancel my subscription at any time and receive refund of any remaining portion of my subscription. (4 £29.95 enclosed* Charge my: 4 Am Ex MasterCard 4 Visa Name Address City Country Postal Code Credit Card Number Expiration Date Signature * Cheques should be made payable to The New York Review of Books. We only accept Sterling cheques drawn on UK banks or cheques in US dollars drawn on US banks. Credit card orders will be billed in US dotlars. We cannot accept international money orders. For European orders outside of the UK, please add £3 to the introductory rate for postage and handling. This offer available for the first year only to new subscribers, Please allow six to eight weeks for receipt of your first copy. i Add $60.00 or £35 for accelerated air delivery, suggested for the Far East and Australia only. Marlene Dietrich by David Levine : : < A3CBFX


--- [InRiverMonstersSeason9episodeIceColdKillerapproximatelyhowold ...] ---
Install it from official Chrome Web Store downloadInstall it from official Microsoft Edge Addons site downloadInstall it from official Opera addons site downloadInstall it from official Opera addons for Yandex site downloadInstall it from official Firefox Browser Add-ons site download
