=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Ivan Lyakhov - Wikipedia]
Lyakhov undertook his last expedition in 1775. This time there was a scientific background to his explorations, for he brought with him a land surveyor. During this journey Great Lyakhovsky Island (Большой Ляховский) was thoroughly surveyed and described.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ivan_Lyakhov

[New Siberian Islands - Novosibirsk Islands, Arctic Ocean: Russia]
Consequently, Shalaurov was the first to tell the world about the Lyakhovsky Islands, the first to put their southernmost outlines on the map presented to the Admiralty College and the Senate. Despite such clear evidence of pioneering, it is generally accepted that the New Siberian Islands were discovered in 1770 by the merchant Ivan Lyakhov.
URL: https://ermakvagus.com/Europe/Russia/new-sib.html

[Biography of Ivan Lyakhov]
Ivan Lyakhov, died around 1800, was a Russian merchant who explored large sections of the New Siberian Islands in the 18th century. Lyakhov began his explorations in the spring of 1770 on dogsleds in order to explore the islands off the northern Siberian coast reported by Yakov Permyakov and Merkury Vagin in 1710.
URL: https://www.biographies.net/people/en/ivan_lyakhov

[Ivan Lyakhov - Wikiwand]
Ivan Lyakhov, died around 1800, was a Russian merchant who explored large sections of the New Siberian Islands in the 18th century.
URL: https://www.wikiwand.com/en/articles/Ivan_Lyakhov

[Kotelny/Faddeyevsky Island - Academic Dictionaries and ...]
In 1770, Ivan Lyakhov noticed reindeer tracks heading seaward across the sea ice. In 1773, he and Protod'yakonov discovered the Lyakhovsky Islands by boat using the bearing of these tracks.
URL: https://en-academic.com/dic.nsf/enwiki/2987181


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Ivan Lyakhov - Wikipedia] ---
Ivan Lyakhov (Russian: Иван Ляхов), died around 1800, was a Russian merchant who explored large sections of the New Siberian Islands in the 18th century.


--- [New Siberian Islands - Novosibirsk Islands, Arctic Ocean: Russia] ---
New Siberian Islands or Novosibirsk Islands (Yakut. Sana Sibiir aryylara) is an archipelago belonging to Russia in the Arctic Ocean between the Laptev Sea and the East Siberian Sea, administratively belongs to Yakutia (Bulunsky ulus). The area is 38.4 thousand km². New Siberian Islands are part of the protected zone of the Ust-Lensky State Nature Reserve. Consists of three groups of islands: Lyakhovsky Islands, Anjou Islands and De Long Islands. In 1646, M. V. Stadukhin informed the Yakut voivode Vasily Pushkin that he and his comrades had discovered a large island against the mouths of the Indigirka and Kolyma rivers: "the island is much in sight, and the mountains are snowy, and the falls and streams are notable." The Cossacks considered this island and the Novosibirsk archipelago to be part of the giant Novaya Zemlya. The first reliable information about the islands at the beginning of the 18th century was reported by the Cossack Yakov Permyakov, who sailed from the mouth of the Lena to the Kolyma. In 1712, he, as part of a Cossack detachment led by Mercury Vagin, landed on the island of Bolshoi Lyakhovsky. Then Yakov Permyakov and Mercury Vagin set off on sledges to the land that lay in the sea opposite the Holy Nose. It was the southernmost island of the Novosibirsk archipelago - First Lyakhovsky. On the First Lyakhovsky Island, they noticed that "there are deer and polar foxes and wolves on that island." Alexei Dementyev, who participated in the first campaign, told about this, and testified that he saw another island to the north of the First Lyakhovsky Island. According to the historian of Siberia of the XIX century G. Spassky, Siberian merchants Nikita Shalaurov and Ivan Bakhov in the middle of the XVIII century on the Novosibirsk Islands discovered deposits of mammoth bone. In the summer of 1761, Nikita Shalaurov, sailing from Yana to Kolyma, saw to the north of the Holy Nose at latitude 72 ° 33, longitude 148 ° “the great land with mountains with seven tops”. These words are recorded in the logbook of the expedition ship "Vera, Nadezhda, Lyubov" and on the map of N. Shalaurov. Consequently, Shalaurov was the first to tell the world about the Lyakhovsky Islands, the first to put their southernmost outlines on the map presented to the Admiralty College and the Senate. Despite such clear evidence of pioneering, it is generally accepted that the New Siberian Islands were discovered in 1770 by the merchant Ivan Lyakhov. Once on the coast of the Arctic Ocean, he noticed a herd of wild deer, which led him across the ice to an unknown mountainous island. After 20 versts the second island appeared, but the deer did not stop there and went further - to an unknown land. On the new land, Lyakhov found many Arctic foxes and mammoth tusks. Notifying about his discovery to Petersburg, he asked to be allowed to have a monopoly on the islands. This right was granted to him by the decree of Catherine II, and the empress ordered to call the islands Lyakhovsky. In 1773, Ivan Lyakhov again went to the archipelago and, following the trail of a reindeer herd, went to the third island - Kotelny. There he found traces of the former explorers: a boiler of green copper, the remains of a wooden ship and firewood. On the new archipelago, Lyakhov organized the fishing of arctic fox and the extraction of mammoth bones and laid two winter huts: Maloe and Korennoye. In connection with commercial development in 1775, 1777, 1778, a state inventory was carried out on the Lyakhovsky Islands. Yakov Sannikov, the leader of the Syrovatsky merchants, in 1800 visited one of the little-known, discovered in 1697 by the boyar's son Maxim Mukhoplev, a small mountainous island, which he called Stolbov. At the time of Sannikov, there were old memorial signs there - Russian crosses erected by sailors who sailed from the mouth of the Lena to Indigirka and Kolyma. In 1805, Yakov Sannikov discovered Faddeevsky Island, and the next year - New Siberia Island. In the capital, having learned about these discoveries, it was suggested that in this area, possibly, a large land extends towards North America. As a result, it was decided to send government expeditions to the area of Sannikov discovery. The first such expedition was led by a zoologist by education Matvey Gedenshtrom, who served as a collegiate registrar in Tobolsk. In 1808-1810, the expedition with the help of Yakov Sannikov carried out an inventory of the archipelago. In 1811, Yakov Sannikov found on the island the site of a Russian industrialist during the beginning of the development of northeast Asia. The fact that the Russians visited the Novosibirsk Islands in the 17th century is also evidenced by the cross on the grave on Kotelny Island, on which Yakov Sannikov saw an inscription in Russian. Gedenstrom's work on the archipelago was continued by the talented geodesist P. Pshenitsyn. In 1820, an expedition led by Fleet Lieutenant Peter Fedorovich Anzhu made an accurate map of the islands, conducting route surveys along their shores, and also tried to find the mysterious land seen by Yakov Sannikov. In 1879-1880, the archipelago was visited by the American polar expedition of George Delong on the schooner Jeannette, which discovered the islands of Jeannette and Henrietta. In 1886, Eduard Toll explored the Lyakhovsky Islands, and then, together with Dr. A. A. Bunge, traveled around Kotelny Island, from the coast of which he allegedly saw Sannikov Land. In 1898, Toll, supported by the Imperial Academy of Sciences and the tsarist government, worried about the penetration of foreigners into the Arctic, made a proposal in the press to equip an expedition in search of Sannikov Land. He left on June 8, 1900 from St. Petersburg on the schooner "Zarya". On the way to Lyakhovsky Island, the expedition, without encountering ice, unhindered, reached the northern tip of Kotelny Island. Toll decided to follow to Bennett's Island, but near it he entered a zone of dense fog, in the breaks of which the first ice appeared, and then an ice barrier. The Zarya turned back to Kotelniy Island, where it hibernated in Nerpichya Bay, having carried out meteorological observations. On May 23, 1901, four people led by Edward Toll on dog sleds, seizing the canoes, went out to the side of Bennett's Island and disappeared without a trace. Exploration of the New Siberian Islands and the De Long archipelago was continued by the Hydrographic Expedition of the Arctic Ocean. In 1912 the icebreaking ships "Taimyr" and "Vaygach" approached the Lyakhovsky Islands, where they made an inventory of many areas. In 1913, returning to the east after the discovery of Severnaya Zemlya, the ships sailed north of the Novosibirsk Islands and opened a new island, giving it the name of Vilkitsky. In 1914, following from Wrangel Island to the west, "Vaigach" approached another island not put on the map, named after Lieutenant Zhokhov. Geologically, the archipelago is dominated by permafrost and underground ice. The bedrock, which is hidden under loose Quaternary deposits and thick deposits of fossil ice, are limestone, shale with intrusions of granites and granodiorites. In the coastal cliffs of sandy-clay soil covering fossil ice, the remains of fossil plants and animals (mammoths, rhinos, wild horses, etc.) thaw out, indicating that many millennia ago the climate in this area was milder. The maximum height is 426 m (Bennett Island). The islands have an arctic climate. Winter is stable, there are no thaws from November to April. The snow cover lasts 9 months. The prevailing January temperatures are from −28 ° C to −31 ° C. In July, the temperature on the coast is usually up to 3 ° C, in the central part it is a few degrees warmer, frosts are possible during the entire warm period, but there are no sudden temperature fluctuations due to the proximity of the sea. The annual precipitation is low (77 mm). The greatest amount of precipitation falls in August (18 mm). The largest river is Balyktakh. The landscape of the islands is arctic tundra, lakes and swamps. Time zone - MSK + 6 (UTC + 9). The surface of the New Siberian islands is covered with arctic tundra vegetation (mosses, lichens), from flowering: polar poppy, buttercups, grains, saxifrage, spoon grass. Of the animals constantly inhabited: reindeer, arctic fox, lemming, polar bear. From birds - snowy owl, ptarmigan. The abundance of reservoirs attracts ducks, geese, and waders here in summer. The coastal areas are inhabited by gulls, loons, guillemots, guillemots. Arctic fox used to be fished in the archipelago. The polar station Kotelny Island has been operating on Kotelny Island since 1933. Permanent military base Since 2012, military exercises of the Russian Armed Forces have been held on the Novosibirsk Islands (Kotelny Island). In 2013, military equipment and property were delivered to the islands. In September 2014, the organization of a permanent military base in the Arctic was officially announced.


--- [Biography of Ivan Lyakhov] ---
Ivan Lyakhov Deceased Person Who is Ivan Lyakhov? Ivan Lyakhov, died around 1800, was a Russian merchant who explored large sections of the New Siberian Islands in the 18th century. Lyakhov began his explorations in the spring of 1770 on dogsleds in order to explore the islands off the northern Siberian coast reported by Yakov Permyakov and Merkury Vagin in 1710. In this journey he visited the southern section of the New Siberian Islands. Lyakhov's intentions were mainly commercial, for he hoped to find mammoth ivory. His theory was that both the islands he explored, and which were later named after him Lyakhov Islands, and those he sighted in the distance but was not able to explore, were mainly formed by a substratum of bones and tusks of mammoths. Lyakhov went on another exploratory venture to the New Siberian Islands in 1773-1774. He visited again the Lyakhov Islands, crossed the Sannikov Strait and discovered Kotelny Island. Lyakhov undertook his last expedition in 1775. This time there was a scientific background to his explorations, for he brought along with him a land surveyor. During this journey Great Lyakhovsky Island was thoroughly surveyed and described. We need you! Help us build the largest biographies collection on the web! Citation Use the citation below to add to a bibliography: Style:MLAChicagoAPA "Ivan Lyakhov." Biographies.net. STANDS4 LTD, 2026. Web. 4 Mar. 2026. <https://www.biographies.net/people/en/ivan_lyakhov>.


--- [Ivan Lyakhov - Wikiwand] ---
No content


--- [Kotelny/Faddeyevsky Island - Academic Dictionaries and ...] ---
- Kotelny/Faddeyevsky Island Kotelny Island ( _ru. Остров Котельный) and Faddeyevsky Island (О. Фаддеевский) are part of the Anzhu Islands subgroup of theNew Siberian Islands located between theLaptev Sea and theEast Siberian Sea in theRussia nArctic .They are usually named as separate islands on average maps, although sometimes the name "Kotelny" is applied to refer to the whole actual island. A flat, low-lying, plain connecting both is known as Bunge Land (Земля Бунге). Taken as a single geographical whole, Kotelny/Bunge/Faddeyevsky is one of the 50 largest islands in the world.anonymous, 1911, [http://www.1911encyclopedia.org/New_Siberia_Archipelago New Siberia Archipelago] ] These merged islands are a practically uninhabited territory belonging to the Sakha Republic (Yakutia) of theRussian Federation .Kotelny Kotelny Island proper, also known as “Kettle Island”,Mills, W. J., 2003, "Exploring polar frontiers: a historical encyclopedia." ABC CLIO Publishers, Oxford, United Kingdom.] is the largest section of the group, with an area of 11,665 km². It is rocky and hilly, rising to 374 m on Mt. Malakatyn-Tas . The Chukochya River flows westwards to theLaptev Sea . The Anisiy Cape coord|76.200|N|139.1167|E is the northenmost headland of Kotelny and it is an important geographical point for it marks the NW limit of the Laptev Sea. The total area of the geographic whole adjacent to Kotelny Island, that is including Bunge Land and Faddeyevsky, is 23,165 km².Great Soviet Encyclopedia ]Bunge Land Bunge Land or Zemlya Bunge is a huge empty and almost barren intermediate zone. It is located between Kotelny and Faddeyevsky, which, unlike Bunge Land, could be described as proper islands. Sandy and flat, its area is 6,200 km². Since it rises only to a maximum height of 8 m above sea level , Bunge Land is flooded during storm surges, except for a very small area in the southeast that rises to an elevation of 11 to 21 m above sea level. The area that is periodically submerged accounts for over 80% of the total surface and is practically devoid of vegetation. Bunge Land is named after Russian zoologist and explorer Alexander von Bunge.Faddeyevsky Faddeyevsky could be described as a large peninsula projecting from the northern end of Bunge Land eastwards with its isthmus in the north. There is a deep inlet on Faddeyevski between its western coast and adjoining Bunge Land. Unlike Kotelny this island is relatively flat despite its size, its highest point being only 65 m. Its area is 5,300 km². Faddeyevsky is covered with tundra vegetation and dotted with small lakes. This island was named after afur trader called Faddeyev who built the first habitation there.Geology Kotelny Island consists of sedimentary rocks andsediment s ranging in age from EarlyPaleozoic to LateCenozoic . The oldest rocks fossiliferous shallow- to deep-water marine,Ordovician to EarlyDevonian limestone s anddolomite s. Middle Devonian toCarboniferous interbedded limestones, dolomites,sandstone s, andconglomerate s overlie these sedimentary strata. ThePermian toJurassic strata exposed within Kotelny Island consist of interbedded, fossiliferousmudstone s,siltstone s, and sandstones. All of these sedimentary rocks are faulted, folded into complexanticline s andsyncline s, and intruded by thindiabase dikes.Kos’ko, M.K., B.G. Lopatin, and V.G. Ganelin, 1990, "Major geological features of the islands of the East Siberian and Chukchi Seas and the Northern Coast of Chukotka." Marine Geology. vol. 93, pp. 349–367.] Fujita, K., and D.B. Cook, 1990, "The Arctic continental margin of eastern Siberia", in A. Grantz, L. Johnson, and J. F. Sweeney, eds., pp. 289-304, The Arctic Ocean Region. Geology of North America, vol L, Geological Society of America, Boulder, Colorado.]Pleistocene toHolocene fluvial sediment s, which range in age from 1,500 to greater than 55,000radiocarbon years BP, underlie terraces that lie within the Balyktakh and Dragotsennaya River valleys. Thickpermafrost has developed in these sediments.Makeyev, V.M., D.P. Ponomareva, V.V. Pitulko, G.M. Chernova and D.V. Solovyeva, 2003, [http://www.jstor.org/pss/1552329 "Vegetation and Climate of the New Siberian Islands for the past 15,000 Years"] . Arctic, Antarctic, and Alpine Research, vol. 35, no. 1, pp. 56-66.]Within Bunge Land and the southwest corner of Kotelny Island, relatively unconsolidated sediments ranging in age from Early Cretaceous to Pleistocene overlie the above folded and faulted sedimentary rocks. The oldest of these sediments are Early Cretaceous alluvialclay s,silt s, andsand s that contain layers of conglomerate,tuff , tuffaceous sandstone,coal , and, at top,rhyolite . The Late Cretaceous sediments are overlain by LateEocene toPliocene alluvial sands that contain layers of clay, silt, gravel, brown coal, and lignitized wood.Kos’ko, M.K., and G.V. Trufanov, 2002, [http://www.sciencedirect.com/science?_ob=ArticleURL&_udi=B6V9Y-47426HP-1&_user=10&_rdoc=1&_fmt=&_orig=search&_sort=d&view=c&_acct=C000050221&_version=1&_urlVersion=0&_userid=10&md5=0c2ea2411cc5f011fb2dc7382df73d62 "Middle Cretaceous to Eopleistocene Sequences on the New Siberian Islands: an approach to interpret offshore seismic".] Marine and Petroleum Geology. vol. 19, no. 7, pp. 901–919.]Faddeyevsky Island and Bunge Land is underlain by unconsolidated sediments ranging in age from Early Cretaceous to Pleistocene. Three very small and isolated exposures indicate that the Early Cretaceous strata are similar to those found in the southwest corner of Kotelny Island. Overlying the Early Cretaceous sediments are alluvial and lacustrine Eocene clays and silts that contains rare beds of sands, brown coal, and gravel. To the north these sediments grade laterally into nearshore marine clays with fossilpelecypod s. The Eocene sediments are overlain by fossiliferous, terrestrial and marineOligocene toMiocene sands that contain subordinate beds of mud, clay, gravel, and brown coal. The Oligocene-Miocene sands accumulated in alluvial, lacustrine, and nearshore marine environments. Overlying the Oligocene-Miocene sands are Pliocene alluvial, lacustrine, and nearshore marine, muds, silts, and sands.Pleistocene deposits blanket most of the surface of Faddeyevsky Island and Bunge Land. A layer of Late Pleistocene and Holocene alluvial and lacustrine deposits largely cover the central and southern parts of Faddeyevsky Island. Middle and Late Pleistocene deposits largely cover the northern part of this island. The permafrost is about 400 to 500 m thick. The central plain of Faddeyevsky Island has been highly altered by thermokarst processes. It contains numerous deep erosive cuts created by the seasonal melting of the permafrost. Numerous baydzharakhs, thermokarst mounds, dot landscape, They are the result of the melting of polygonal ice wedges within the permafrost.Andreev, A. A., D. M. Peteet, P. E. Tarasov, F. A. Romanenko, L. V. Filimonova and L. D. Sulerzhitsky, 2001, [http://www.jstor.org/pss/1552274 "Late Pleistocene Interstadial Environment on Faddeyevskiy Island, East-Siberian Sea, Russia ."] Arctic, Antarctic, and Alpine Research. vol. 33, no. 1, pp. 28-35,]Vegetation Rush/grass, forb , cryptogam tundra covers all of Faddeyevsky Island and most of Kotelny Island. It is tundra consisting mostly of very low-growing grasses, rushes, forbs, mosses, lichens, and liverworts. These plants either mostly or completely cover the surface of the ground. The soils are typically moist, fine-grained, and often hummocky.CAVM Team, 2003, [http://www.geobotany.uaf.edu/cavm/download.shtml Circumpolar Arctic Vegetation Map] . Scale 1:7,500,000. Conservation of Arctic Flora and Fauna (CAFF) Map No. 1. U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Anchorage, Alaska]Prostrate dwarfshrub, herb tundra covers all of Bunge Land and the eastern part of Kotelny Island adjacent to it. This type of tundra consists of dry tundra with open to patchy (20-80% cover) vegetation. The dominant plants comprising prostrate dwarfshrub, herb tundra are shrubs, i.e. Dryas spp. and Salix arctica, less than 5 cm tall, graminoids, and forbs. Lichens are also common. Adjacent islands *Deep inside the bay on the northern side of Kotelny lies Skrytyy Island (Ostrov Skrytyy) coord|75.667|N|140.833|E. It is 11 Km long and 5.5 km wide. *Very close to Bunge Land's northwestern coast there are two islands: Zheleznyakov Island (Ostrov Zheleznyakova), right off the NW cape and, east of it, Matar Island (Ostrov Matar). Both islands are about 5 km in length. *Nanosnyy Island coord|76.283|N|140.416|E is a small island located due north off the northern bay formed by Kotelny and Bunge. It is C-shaped and only 4 km in length, but its importance lies in the fact that it is the northernmost island of the New Siberian group. *Figurina Island (Ostrov Figurina) was located about 30 Km east of Nanosnyy Island. [http://www.ecotours.ru/english/tours/lena.htm Figurina] ] When discovered in 1822 by P. Anzhu, while he was searching for "Sannikov Land ", its area was about 8 to 9 km². At that time, it had sea cliffs as high as 20 m (66 ft). Although marked on maps published in 1926, 1941, and 1945, a Soviet hydrographic expedition conducted in the early 1940s found that the Figurina Island no longer existed.Gavrilov, A.V., N.N. Romanovskii, V.E. Romanovsky, H.-W. Hubberten, and V. E. Tumskoy, 2003, "Reconstruction of Ice Complex Remnants on the Eastern Siberian Arctic Shelf." Permafrost and Periglacial Processes. vol. 14, pp. 187–198.]History The island was officially discovered by Russian merchant and hunter, Ivan Lyakhov , with the merchant, Protod’yakonov, in 1773. In 1770, Ivan Lyakhov noticed reindeer tracks heading seaward across the sea ice. In 1773, he and Protod’yakonov discovered theLyakhovsky Islands by boat using the bearing of these tracks. Continuing from the Lyakhovsky Islands, they discovered Kotelny Island and named it “Kettle Island” after a copper kettle, which they found while exploring it. The person(s), who visited Kotelny Island and left the copper kettle, is unknown. Formerly this island had been known as "Thaddeus Island" or "Thaddeus Islands" in some maps.Under the employment of Semen and Lev Syrovatskiy, Yakov Sannikov conducted numerous hunting and cartographic expeditions between 1800 and 1810. On one of these expeditions in 1805, he discovered Faddeyevsky Island. In 1809-1810 Yakov Sannikov andMatvei Gedenschtrom went to theNew Siberian Islands on a cartographic expedition. Yakov Sannikov reported the sighting of a "new land" north of Kotelny in 1811. This became the myth of Zemlya Sannikova or "Sannikov Land ".In 1886 Baron Eduard Von Toll thought that he had seen an unknown land north of Kotelny. He guessed that this was the so-called "Zemlya Sannikova". References External links * [http://worldmaps.web.infoseek.co.jp/russia_guide.htm Locations] *Andreev, A.A., and D.M. Peteet, 1999, [http://www.giss.nasa.gov/research/briefs/andreev_01/ "Climate and Diet of Mammoths in the East Siberian Arctic ."] Science Briefs (August 1999). Goddard Institute for Space Studies, New York, New York. Last visited July 12, 2008. *Anisimov, M.A., and V.E. Tumskoy, 2002, [http://www.colorado.edu/INSTAAR/ArcticWS/get_abstr.html?id=46 Environmental History of the Novosibirskie Islands for the last 12 ka.] 32nd International Arctic Workshop, Program and Abstracts 2002. Institute of Arctic and Alpine Research, University of Colorado at Boulder, pp 23-25. *anonymous, nda, [http://www.oceandots.com/arctic/russia/kotelnyy.htm Kotel'nyy & Faddeyevsky] aerial photograph of Kotelny/Faddeyevsky Island. *anonymous, ndb, [http://www.oceandots.com/arctic/russia/new-siberian.htm New Siberian Islands] aerial photographs ofNew Siberian Islands . *Kuznetsova, T.V., L.D. Sulerzhitsky, Ch. Siegert, 2001, [http://www.cq.rm.cnr.it/elephants2001/pdf/289_292.pdf New data on the “Mammoth” fauna of the Laptev Shelf Land (East Siberian Arctic)] , 144 KB PDF file, The World of Elephants - International Congress, Rome 2001. Consiglio Nazionale delle Ricerche, Centro di Studio per il Quaternario e l'Evoluzione Ambientale, Università di Roma, Roma, Italy. *Schirrmeister, L., H.-W. Hubberten, V. Rachold, and V.G. Grosse, 2005, [http://epic.awi.de/epic/Main?puid=26457 "Lost world - Late Quaternary environment of periglacial Arctic shelves and coastal lowlands in NE-Siberia."] 2nd International Alfred Wegener Symposium Bremerhaven, October, 30 - November 2, 2005. Wikimedia Foundation. 2010.
