=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[www.russiabeyond.com › arts › 330584-leo-tolstoy-portrait-repin › arts › 330584-leo-tolstoy-portrait-repin]
Repin and Tolstoy met in Moscow in 1880. At the time Tolstoy was already not only a prominent writer but was also in a state of "spiritual quest", re-assessing the values and achievements of his earlier years. It was Tolstoy who came to the studio of the relatively young artist (Tolstoy was 52, and Repin 36).
URL: https://www.russiabeyond.com/arts/330584-leo-tolstoy-portrait-repin

[Leo Tolstoy through the eyes of Ilya Repin (PICS)]
It was Tolstoy who came to the studio of the relatively young artist (Tolstoy was 52, and Repin 36). In his reminiscences From My Acquaintanceship with Leo Tolstoy, Repin says: "Leo Tolstoy.
URL: https://www.rbth.com/arts/330584-leo-tolstoy-portrait-repin

[Leo Tolstoy through the eyes of Ilya Repin]
Repin, 36, was a rising star. Tolstoy, 52, came to his studio himself. Repin later wrote in From My Encounters with L.N. Tolstoy: “Leo Tolstoy.
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/tolstoy/comments/1l86035/leo_tolstoy_through_the_eyes_of_ilya_repin/

[Ilya Repin - Wikipedia]
In 1880, Leo Tolstoy came to Repin's small studio on Bolshoi Trubny street in Moscow to introduce himself. This developed into a friendship between the 36-year-old painter and the 52-year-old writer that lasted thirty years until Tolstoy's death in 1910.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ilya_Repin

[(#34) ILYA EFIMOVICH REPIN | Portrait of Leo Tolstoy]
The present portrait of Leo Tolstoy is one of several studies the artist made of the author over the course of their long-lasting friendship. Repin and Tolstoy met for the first time on 7 th October 1880, when the prolific author wandered into his studio in Moscow during a visit from his estate at Yasnaya Polyana.
URL: https://www.sothebys.com/en/auctions/ecatalogue/2018/russian-pictures-l18115/lot.34.html


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [www.russiabeyond.com › arts › 330584-leo-tolstoy-portrait-repin › arts › 330584-leo-tolstoy-portrait-repin] ---
Russian writer Leo Tolstoy (L) and painter Ilya Repin in the Yasnaya Polyana estate of Tolstoy TASSIt was a long-standing friendship and, at the same time, the two men argued about everything. There was mutual admiration and influence, but there were also irreconcilable disagreements on matters of art, for instance. Twelve portraits, 25 drawings, eight sketches of family members, 17 illustrations to the writer's works and three plaster busts are the total number of works by Repin linked to Leo Tolstoy, according to Repin scholars. Portrait of Leo Tolstoy State picture gallery of Primorye, VladivostokRepin and Tolstoy met in Moscow in 1880. At the time Tolstoy was already not only a prominent writer but was also in a state of "spiritual quest", re-assessing the values and achievements of his earlier years. It was Tolstoy who came to the studio of the relatively young artist (Tolstoy was 52, and Repin 36). In his reminiscences From My Acquaintanceship with Leo Tolstoy, Repin says: "Leo Tolstoy. Is it really? So that's what he's like! I knew only his portrait by Ivan Kramskoy and until then had imagined Leo Tolstoy to be an eccentric gentleman, a count, tall, dark-haired, and his head not so big…" Sketches of Leo Tolstoy Private collectionRepin recalled that the writer had spoken in a deep and sincere voice, and gave a moral sermon on how people had become indifferent to the horrors of life and followed a road of debauchery. "The lamp on the table was already lit, and there was a gloomy and mysterious premonition in the air. It seemed we were on the eve of the Last Judgement… It was both novel and terrifying…" Saint Nicholas of Myra Saves Three Innocents From Death State Russian MuseumAfter the meeting Repin volunteered to accompany the writer home. Subsequently, they'd meet almost daily and go for walks, engaging in long conversations. Repin was so impressed by everything Tolstoy said, and he wrote that "afterwards I couldn't sleep, with my head spinning from his (Tolstoy's) merciless condemnation of obsolete forms of living". The writer's sermon on the abolition of the death penalty inspired Repin to paint Saint Nicholas of Myra Saves Three Innocents From Death. (According to one theory, St. Nicholas in Repin’s painting - a grey-haired bearded man adorned with crosses – was Tolstoy himself) Leo Tolstoy Takes a Rest in the Woods, 1891 State Tretyakov GalleryThis meeting left a very strong impression on Repin, and he wrote to critic Vladimir Stasov that he felt like a young boy near Tolstoy and wanted to listen to him forever. "My God, what an all-embracing soul this Tolstoy has! Everything that has been born, and lives and breathes, the whole of nature – all this is truthfully reflected in him, without the slightest falsehood and, once read, remains before your eyes forever…" Portrait of Leo Tolstoy, 1901 State Tretyakov GalleryTolstoy also expressed an opinion of the painting, The Zaporozhian Cossacks, which the artist was working on. Tolstoy found it frivolous, which deeply upset the artist, who temporarily abandoned the painting. Some time later, however, Repin couldn't resist finishing the painting, and it became one of his most famous masterpieces. Portrait of the Writer Leo Tolstoy, 1887 State Tretyakov GalleryRepin often visited Leo Tolstoy at his house in Khamovniki in Moscow. For a long time, however, he didn't make a portrait of the writer, instead merely observing him and constructing a mental image. He only painted his first portrait of Tolstoy in 1887 when he visited the writer at his estate in Yasnaya Polyana. Leo Tolstoy in a Ploughed Field, 1887 State Tretyakov GalleryRepin stayed there for a week and made several sketches, depicting Tolstoy in his study, reading, walking, talking to peasants and ploughing a field. Repin wrote how on a hot day in August, when the heat was at its peak, Tolstoy ploughed the black fertile soil for six hours, without a break. "I had a sketchbook with me and, without losing any time… was sketching details every time the whole 'cortege' passed by…" Leo Tolstoy Barefoot. Study for a portrait of the same title, 1891 State Russian MuseumLeo Tolstoy Barefoot,1901 State Russian MuseumWhen collector Pavel Tretyakov learned that Repin had gone to Yasnaya Polyana he lamented that he couldn't tell the painter his thoughts about the portrait beforehand. He also wanted the writer "to be left to posterity in full length, and definitely in the open air and in the summer". Leo Tolstoy in his Study at Yasnaya Polyana, 1887 The Leo Tolstoy State MuseumLeo Tolstoy in a Pink Armchair, 1909 The Leo Tolstoy State MuseumTolstoy, who hated posing, steadfastly endured sitting for the portrait and wrote fondly of Repin in a letter to his friend Vladimir Chertkov: "We have – it will be a week tomorrow – Repin staying with us and painting my portrait. It takes up my time but I am pleased and like him very much, he is a very good and serious person". And in other letters Tolstoy said that he held Repin in high esteem and liked him. Leo Tolstoy Working at the Round Table, 1891 State Russian MuseumRepin visited Yasnaya Polyana often and completely fell for his charm. The influence of the "strong and inspired" personality of Tolstoy was unshakeable, and he accepted everything the writer said as the ultimate truth. Leo Tolstoy with his Wife Sofia Tolstoy Pushkin HouseAs time passed, the spell seemed to disappear and, eventually Repin was no longer enchanted by Tolstoy’s personality. Instead, he felt sorry for this old man with his plough, who sat alone with a candle in his dark study. Leo Tolstoy in the Room with the Arches, 1891 State Russian MuseumThe painter's attitude to Tolstoy changed dramatically when he concluded that the writer should not stoop to the level of the peasants but, on the contrary, the writer should lift the peasants up to his level. Another stumbling block regarded their stances on artistic matters. Repin categorically disagreed with Tolstoy on many issues. Leo Tolstoy Reading State Tretyakov GalleryIn one article, the writer described Raphael, Wagner and Shakespeare as worthless, which hurt Repin very much: "After all, it's as if some loudmouth had told me that Leo Tolstoy was talentless and false. Well, what's the point of arguing with such a person?!" Repin wrote. Portrait of Leo Tolstoy, 1912 Penaty Estate Museum of Ilya RepinStill, the two men continued to remain friends, arguing about everything, until the end of Tolstoy’s life. Repin continued to work on portraits of Tolstoy even after the writer's death in 1910. It is believed Repin created the image of Tolstoy that remains in people’s minds today. Portrait of Leo Tolstoy, 1916 Private collectionThe exhibition Repin: The Myth of Tolstoy runs until Oct.13 at the Leo Tolstoy Museum on Prechistenka Street in Moscow. If using any of Russia Beyond's content, partly or in full, always provide an active hyperlink to the original material. Subscribe to our newsletter! Get the week's best stories straight to your inbox


--- [Leo Tolstoy through the eyes of Ilya Repin (PICS)] ---
Russian writer Leo Tolstoy (L) and painter Ilya Repin in the Yasnaya Polyana estate of Tolstoy TASSIt was a long-standing friendship and, at the same time, the two men argued about everything. There was mutual admiration and influence, but there were also irreconcilable disagreements on matters of art, for instance. Twelve portraits, 25 drawings, eight sketches of family members, 17 illustrations to the writer's works and three plaster busts are the total number of works by Repin linked to Leo Tolstoy, according to Repin scholars. Portrait of Leo Tolstoy State picture gallery of Primorye, VladivostokRepin and Tolstoy met in Moscow in 1880. At the time Tolstoy was already not only a prominent writer but was also in a state of "spiritual quest", re-assessing the values and achievements of his earlier years. It was Tolstoy who came to the studio of the relatively young artist (Tolstoy was 52, and Repin 36). In his reminiscences From My Acquaintanceship with Leo Tolstoy, Repin says: "Leo Tolstoy. Is it really? So that's what he's like! I knew only his portrait by Ivan Kramskoy and until then had imagined Leo Tolstoy to be an eccentric gentleman, a count, tall, dark-haired, and his head not so big…" Sketches of Leo Tolstoy Private collectionRepin recalled that the writer had spoken in a deep and sincere voice, and gave a moral sermon on how people had become indifferent to the horrors of life and followed a road of debauchery. "The lamp on the table was already lit, and there was a gloomy and mysterious premonition in the air. It seemed we were on the eve of the Last Judgement… It was both novel and terrifying…" Saint Nicholas of Myra Saves Three Innocents From Death State Russian MuseumAfter the meeting Repin volunteered to accompany the writer home. Subsequently, they'd meet almost daily and go for walks, engaging in long conversations. Repin was so impressed by everything Tolstoy said, and he wrote that "afterwards I couldn't sleep, with my head spinning from his (Tolstoy's) merciless condemnation of obsolete forms of living". The writer's sermon on the abolition of the death penalty inspired Repin to paint Saint Nicholas of Myra Saves Three Innocents From Death. (According to one theory, St. Nicholas in Repin’s painting - a grey-haired bearded man adorned with crosses – was Tolstoy himself) Leo Tolstoy Takes a Rest in the Woods, 1891 State Tretyakov GalleryThis meeting left a very strong impression on Repin, and he wrote to critic Vladimir Stasov that he felt like a young boy near Tolstoy and wanted to listen to him forever. "My God, what an all-embracing soul this Tolstoy has! Everything that has been born, and lives and breathes, the whole of nature – all this is truthfully reflected in him, without the slightest falsehood and, once read, remains before your eyes forever…" Portrait of Leo Tolstoy, 1901 State Tretyakov GalleryTolstoy also expressed an opinion of the painting, The Zaporozhian Cossacks, which the artist was working on. Tolstoy found it frivolous, which deeply upset the artist, who temporarily abandoned the painting. Some time later, however, Repin couldn't resist finishing the painting, and it became one of his most famous masterpieces. Portrait of the Writer Leo Tolstoy, 1887 State Tretyakov GalleryRepin often visited Leo Tolstoy at his house in Khamovniki in Moscow. For a long time, however, he didn't make a portrait of the writer, instead merely observing him and constructing a mental image. He only painted his first portrait of Tolstoy in 1887 when he visited the writer at his estate in Yasnaya Polyana. Leo Tolstoy in a Ploughed Field, 1887 State Tretyakov GalleryRepin stayed there for a week and made several sketches, depicting Tolstoy in his study, reading, walking, talking to peasants and ploughing a field. Repin wrote how on a hot day in August, when the heat was at its peak, Tolstoy ploughed the black fertile soil for six hours, without a break. "I had a sketchbook with me and, without losing any time… was sketching details every time the whole 'cortege' passed by…" Leo Tolstoy Barefoot. Study for a portrait of the same title, 1891 State Russian MuseumLeo Tolstoy Barefoot,1901 State Russian MuseumWhen collector Pavel Tretyakov learned that Repin had gone to Yasnaya Polyana he lamented that he couldn't tell the painter his thoughts about the portrait beforehand. He also wanted the writer "to be left to posterity in full length, and definitely in the open air and in the summer". Leo Tolstoy in his Study at Yasnaya Polyana, 1887 The Leo Tolstoy State MuseumLeo Tolstoy in a Pink Armchair, 1909 The Leo Tolstoy State MuseumTolstoy, who hated posing, steadfastly endured sitting for the portrait and wrote fondly of Repin in a letter to his friend Vladimir Chertkov: "We have – it will be a week tomorrow – Repin staying with us and painting my portrait. It takes up my time but I am pleased and like him very much, he is a very good and serious person". And in other letters Tolstoy said that he held Repin in high esteem and liked him. Leo Tolstoy Working at the Round Table, 1891 State Russian MuseumRepin visited Yasnaya Polyana often and completely fell for his charm. The influence of the "strong and inspired" personality of Tolstoy was unshakeable, and he accepted everything the writer said as the ultimate truth. Leo Tolstoy with his Wife Sofia Tolstoy Pushkin HouseAs time passed, the spell seemed to disappear and, eventually Repin was no longer enchanted by Tolstoy’s personality. Instead, he felt sorry for this old man with his plough, who sat alone with a candle in his dark study. Leo Tolstoy in the Room with the Arches, 1891 State Russian MuseumThe painter's attitude to Tolstoy changed dramatically when he concluded that the writer should not stoop to the level of the peasants but, on the contrary, the writer should lift the peasants up to his level. Another stumbling block regarded their stances on artistic matters. Repin categorically disagreed with Tolstoy on many issues. Leo Tolstoy Reading State Tretyakov GalleryIn one article, the writer described Raphael, Wagner and Shakespeare as worthless, which hurt Repin very much: "After all, it's as if some loudmouth had told me that Leo Tolstoy was talentless and false. Well, what's the point of arguing with such a person?!" Repin wrote. Portrait of Leo Tolstoy, 1912 Penaty Estate Museum of Ilya RepinStill, the two men continued to remain friends, arguing about everything, until the end of Tolstoy’s life. Repin continued to work on portraits of Tolstoy even after the writer's death in 1910. It is believed Repin created the image of Tolstoy that remains in people’s minds today. Portrait of Leo Tolstoy, 1916 Private collectionThe exhibition Repin: The Myth of Tolstoy runs until Oct.13 at the Leo Tolstoy Museum on Prechistenka Street in Moscow. If using any of Russia Beyond's content, partly or in full, always provide an active hyperlink to the original material. Subscribe to our newsletter! Get the week's best stories straight to your inbox


--- [Leo Tolstoy through the eyes of Ilya Repin] ---
Leo Tolstoy through the eyes of Ilya Repin The great Russian painter created over 20 portraits, sketches, and studies of Tolstoy. Their connection was more than just artist and subject. It was a long friendship mixed with deep disagreements, especially when it came to art. They inspired each other, argued constantly, and stayed close for decades. Researchers count 12 portraits, 25 drawings, 8 sketches of Tolstoy’s family members, 17 illustrations for his books, and 3 plaster busts - all tied to Repin’s vision of Tolstoy. They first met in Moscow in 1880. Tolstoy was already a world-famous writer, going through a personal spiritual shift and questioning much of what he’d once believed in. Repin, 36, was a rising star. Tolstoy, 52, came to his studio himself. Repin later wrote in From My Encounters with L.N. Tolstoy: “Leo Tolstoy. Really? So that’s what he’s like! I’d only seen his portrait by I.N. Kramskoy and had imagined Tolstoy as a peculiar aristocrat, a tall, dark-haired count with a large head — but not that large…” What struck Repin most was Tolstoy’s voice - low, intimate, and completely absorbed in moral ideas. “It felt like we were on the eve of Judgment Day,” he wrote after hearing Tolstoy speak about society’s indifference to suffering. After one of their first conversations, Repin said he couldn’t sleep. Tolstoy’s words about society’s moral decay left his head spinning. The two quickly formed a close bond, often walking and talking for hours. Tolstoy’s fierce stance against capital punishment even inspired one of Repin’s major paintings. Deeply moved, Repin wrote to Vladimir Stasov: “My God, what a soul this Tolstoy has! Everything that lives, breathes, is born — all of nature — it’s all reflected in him truthfully, without a trace of falseness. Once you read him, it stays with you for life…” Repin frequently visited Yasnaya Polyana, where he was fully taken in by Tolstoy’s charisma and genius. While they were together, he saw Tolstoy as almost prophet-like - his words sounded like truth itself. But with time and distance, his view shifted. The awe faded, and he began to see Tolstoy not as a sage, but as an old man alone with a candle in a dark study. - Portrait of Lev Nikolayevich Tolstoy, 1912 Repin Estate Museum “The Penates” - Portrait of L. N. Tolstoy. Art Gallery, Vladivostok - Studies of L. N. Tolstoy, 1891. Private Collection - Lev Nikolayevich Tolstoy Resting in the Forest, 1891. Tretyakov Gallery - Portrait of Lev Nikolayevich Tolstoy, 1901. Tretyakov Gallery - Portrait of L. N. Tolstoy, 1887. Tretyakov Gallery - L. N. Tolstoy Plowing, 1887. Tretyakov Gallery - L. N. Tolstoy Barefoot, 1901. State Russian Museum - Lev Nikolayevich Tolstoy in His Study at Yasnaya Polyana, 1887. State L. N. Tolstoy Museum - Lev Nikolayevich Tolstoy in a Pink Armchair, 1909. State L. N. Tolstoy Museum - L. N. Tolstoy Working at a Round Table, 1891. State Russian Museum - L. N. Tolstoy with His Wife S. A. Tolstaya Pushkin House (Institute of Russian Literature) - Lev Tolstoy in a Vaulted Room, 1891. State Russian Museum - Lev Nikolayevich Tolstoy Reading. Tretyakov Gallery - Portrait of Lev Tolstoy, 1916. Private Collection


--- [Ilya Repin - Wikipedia] ---
Ilya Yefimovich Repin (5 August [O.S. 24 July] 1844 – 29 September 1930) was a Ukrainian-born Russian painter. He became one of the most renowned artists in Russia in the 19th century. His major works include Barge Haulers on the Volga (1873), Religious Procession in Kursk Province (1880–1883), Ivan the Terrible and His Son Ivan (1885), and Reply of the Zaporozhian Cossacks (1880–1891). He is also known for the revealing portraits he made of the leading Russian literary and artistic figures of his time, including Mikhail Glinka, Modest Mussorgsky, Pavel Tretyakov, and especially Leo Tolstoy, with whom he had a long friendship.
Repin was born and brought up in Chuguev, then part of the Russian Empire. His father had served in an Uhlan regiment in the Russian army and then sold horses. Repin began painting icons at age sixteen. He failed at his first effort to enter the Imperial Academy of Fine Arts in Saint Petersburg, but went to the city anyway in 1863, audited courses, and won his first prizes in 1869 and 1871. In 1872, after a tour along the Volga River, he presented his drawings at the Academy of Art in St. Petersburg. Grand Duke Vladimir Alexandrovich awarded him a commission for a large scale painting, The Barge Haulers of the Volga, which launched his career. He spent two years in Paris and Normandy, seeing the first Impressionist expositions and learning the techniques of painting in the open air.
He suffered one setback in 1885 when his history portrait of Ivan the Terrible killing his own son in a fit of rage caused a scandal, resulting in the painting being removed from exhibition. But this was followed by a series of major successes and new commissions. In 1898, with his second wife, he built a country house, which he called "The Penates" ('Penaty' in Russian) in the village of Kuokkala, Finland, where they entertained Russian society. The house and garden now constitute the Penaty Memorial Estate and the village and district were renamed to Repino, now a suburban area of Russia's Saint Petersburg.
In 1905, following the repression of street demonstrations by the Imperial government, he quit his teaching position at the Academy of Fine Arts. He welcomed the February Revolution in 1917, but was appalled by the violence and terror unleashed by the Bolsheviks following the October Revolution. Later that year, Finland declared its independence from Russia. Following this event, Repin was unable to travel to St. Petersburg (renamed Leningrad), even for an exhibition of his own works in 1925. Repin died on 29 September 1930, at the age of 86, and was buried at the Penates. His home is now a museum and a UNESCO World Heritage Site.




--- [(#34) ILYA EFIMOVICH REPIN | Portrait of Leo Tolstoy] ---
- 34 ILYA EFIMOVICH REPIN | Portrait of Leo Tolstoy Estimate 400,000 - 600,000 GBP Log in to view results bidding is closed Description - llya Efimovich Repin - Portrait of Leo Tolstoy - signed in Cyrillic and dated 1916 l.l. - oil on linoleum - 115.5 by 85cm, 45 1/2 by 33 1/2 in. Provenance Vasily Levi, Finland K.G.Lenbom, Sweden Acquired in Mexico from a Russian immigrant by the father of the present owner in the early 1970s K.G.Lenbom, Sweden Acquired in Mexico from a Russian immigrant by the father of the present owner in the early 1970s Exhibited Petrograd, The First State Free Art Exhibition, 1919 Stockholm, Liljewalch's Konsthall, 1919 New York, Kingore Galleries, The Ilya Repin Exhibition, 1921, no.12 Stockholm, Liljewalch's Konsthall, 1919 New York, Kingore Galleries, The Ilya Repin Exhibition, 1921, no.12 Literature C.Brinton, The Ilya Repin Exhibition, New York, 1921, no.12 listed; illustrated b/w Condition Structural Condition The artist's painted linoleum has been lined onto linen and is securely attached to a keyed wooden stretcher. This is providing an even and stable structural support. The textured pattern of the linoleum is clearly visible through the paint layers. Paint surface The paint surface has an even varnish layer. The paint surface displays an overall pattern of fine lines of craquelure. These are entirely stable. There is also a network of drying craquelure within the dark paint of the background in the upper part of the composition, most notably to the right of Tolstoy's head. Inspection under ultraviolet light shows scattered retouchings, including: 1) scattered retouchings in the lower left, right and upper left corners covering historic paint losses, 2) a few small retouchings within the lower part of Tolstoy's clothing, 3) several retouchings within the dark background to the right of his beard and some further retouchings towards the centre of the left edge, and 4) a few small spots and lines of retouching within Tolstoy's face including a few tiny lines within his left eye. Summary The painting would therefore appear to be in good and stable condition. "This lot is offered for sale subject to Sotheby's Conditions of Business, which are available on request and printed in Sotheby's sale catalogues. The independent reports contained in this document are provided for prospective bidders' information only and without warranty by Sotheby's or the Seller." "This lot is offered for sale subject to Sotheby's Conditions of Business, which are available on request and printed in Sotheby's sale catalogues. The independent reports contained in this document are provided for prospective bidders' information only and without warranty by Sotheby's or the Seller." Catalogue Note The present portrait of Leo Tolstoy is one of several studies the artist made of the author over the course of their long-lasting friendship. Repin and Tolstoy met for the first time on 7th October 1880, when the prolific author wandered into his studio in Moscow during a visit from his estate at Yasnaya Polyana. Repin was thrilled to meet Tolstoy in person, and this meeting of two greats, both already famous in their own right, flourished into a friendship which would last over thirty years. Repin found the well-known author to be a fascinating subject, writing ‘as far as I can see, after his face, all other faces seem boring and lacking in curiosity’ (Letter from Repin to V.G.Chertkov, 16th October 1891). Tolstoy posed for Repin on a number of occasions at Yasnaya Polyana, the resulting paintings now hanging in major museums such as the State Tretyakov Gallery and State Russian Museum, as well as at the author’s estate. As the renowned arts critic Vladimir Stasov said, Repin was able to portray ‘the inner creative workings of the great man’s mind’ (A.L. Kagarin, Repin: His Artistic Legacy, USSR: Academy of Science, 1949, vol.2, p.380). The present lot is a version of a full-length portrait of Tolstoy painted in 1901 now at the State Russian Museum, (fig.2). The full-length portrait captures Tolstoy during a moment of one of his so-called ‘prayers’: his pose with his hands tucked into the belt wrapped around his linen rubakha, the traditional peasant shirt which became synonymous with the author, and the red book protruding from the pocket are motifs which Repin borrowed for the present work. Completed in 1916, this portrait was painted at Repin’s estate at Penaty, six years after the death of Tolstoy. Due to the shortages caused by the First World War, canvas was increasingly difficult to acquire, and, as with many of his other compositions from this period, this work was painted on linoleum, the embossed pattern of which can be seen in places through the paint surface. The portrait was acquired by Vassily Levi, an artist and agent who represented the Repin family from 1918. Levi sold the work to K.G.Lenbom in early May 1920 along with a number of other works, all of which were destined for the Repin exhibition in New York in 1921 which was organised by Levi alongside Christian Brinton (fig.3). We would like to thank Liudmila Andrushchenko for providing additional cataloguing information. The present lot is a version of a full-length portrait of Tolstoy painted in 1901 now at the State Russian Museum, (fig.2). The full-length portrait captures Tolstoy during a moment of one of his so-called ‘prayers’: his pose with his hands tucked into the belt wrapped around his linen rubakha, the traditional peasant shirt which became synonymous with the author, and the red book protruding from the pocket are motifs which Repin borrowed for the present work. Completed in 1916, this portrait was painted at Repin’s estate at Penaty, six years after the death of Tolstoy. Due to the shortages caused by the First World War, canvas was increasingly difficult to acquire, and, as with many of his other compositions from this period, this work was painted on linoleum, the embossed pattern of which can be seen in places through the paint surface. The portrait was acquired by Vassily Levi, an artist and agent who represented the Repin family from 1918. Levi sold the work to K.G.Lenbom in early May 1920 along with a number of other works, all of which were destined for the Repin exhibition in New York in 1921 which was organised by Levi alongside Christian Brinton (fig.3). We would like to thank Liudmila Andrushchenko for providing additional cataloguing information.
