=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Kayaker's breathtaking 20m drop down ice waterfall in Norway | BBC News]
A kayaker's descent down a 20m (65ft) glacial waterfall in the Arctic Circle is the biggest ever recorded. Catalonian Aniol Serrasolses, 32, paddled through the rapids and ice tunnels of the ...
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdv2au39Z1s

[Kayaker's stunning 20m drop down ice waterfall - BBC]
A 32-year-old Catalonian man's descent down a 20m glacial waterfall in the Arctic Circle is the biggest ever recorded. Aniol Serrasolses paddled through the rapids and ice tunnels of the glacial ...
URL: https://www.bbc.com/news/world-67578560

[Kayaking-Aventurer completes biggest descent of glacial waterfall]
Nov 29, 2023 — Kayaker Aniol Serrasolses has descended a 20-metre ice waterfall in the Arctic Circle - the biggest ever recorded descent of a glacial waterfall.
URL: https://www.reuters.com/sports/kayaking-aventurer-completes-biggest-descent-glacial-waterfall-2023-11-29/

[Kayaker Serrasolses completes biggest descent of glacial waterfall - CGTN]
Spanish kayaker Aniol Serrasolses has descended a 20-meter ice waterfall in the Arctic Circle, Norway, the biggest ever recorded descent of a glacial waterfall. The 32-year-old adventurer from Spain's Catalonia, who is also a Red Bull athlete, paddled through the rapids and ice tunnels of the glacial river on the ice cap before descending the ice waterfall in Brasvellbreen, the Svalbard ...
URL: https://news.cgtn.com/news/2023-11-30/Kayaker-Serrasolses-completes-biggest-descent-of-glacial-waterfall-1p9DitUHEAw/index.html

[World record: Kayaker drops off 20m ice waterfall - Red Bull]
Catalan adventurer and elite kayaker Aniol Serrasolses shatters boundaries on his Arctic expedition when he descends a 20m-high ice waterfall - the largest ever recorded kayak drop from a glacial ...
URL: https://www.redbull.com/int-en/aniol-serrasolses-ice-waterfalls-kayaking-adventure


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Kayaker's breathtaking 20m drop down ice waterfall in Norway | BBC News] ---
About Press Copyright Contact us Creators Advertise Developers Terms Privacy Policy & Safety How YouTube works Test new features © 2026 Google LLC


--- [Kayaker's stunning 20m drop down ice waterfall - BBC] ---
Kayaker's stunning 20m drop down ice waterfall A 32-year-old Catalonian man's descent down a 20m glacial waterfall in the Arctic Circle is the biggest ever recorded. Aniol Serrasolses paddled through the rapids and ice tunnels of the glacial river, before going down the ice waterfall in Svalbard, Norway. He described the experience as "like kayaking on another planet". This video has been optimised for mobile viewing on the BBC News app. The BBC News app is available for iPhone and Android.


--- [Kayaking-Aventurer completes biggest descent of glacial waterfall] ---
BRASVELLBREEN, Norway, Nov 29 - Kayaker Aniol Serrasolses has descended a 20-metre ice waterfall in the Arctic Circle - the biggest ever recorded descent of a glacial waterfall. The 32-year-old Catalan adventurer paddled through the rapids and ice tunnels of the glacial river on the ice cap before descending the ice waterfall in Brasvellbreen, the Svalbard archipelago of Norway. Sign up here. "The first time navigating through those rapids was absolutely incredible," Serrasolses said. "Like kayaking on another planet. It was actually crazier than I ever thought it would be... one of the roughest, most wild and virgin places I've ever seen. "That feeling of levitating above the water. You could see the bottom with those textures, with those movements, with those shapes, and you were on top of your kayak totally transparent. You could look down and see everything." To access the waterfall the crew had to climb up the ice cap using a ladder, and then walk 11 kilometres across the ice to access the glacial river, crossing streams and crevasses. As the first person to run the waterfall Serrasolses chose to name the descent "Philip's Ladder" as a tribute to the crew member who pulled the ladder for the duration of the 11km trek to allow the team to get from the boat to the waterfall. Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles.


--- [Kayaker Serrasolses completes biggest descent of glacial waterfall - CGTN] ---
Spanish kayaker Aniol Serrasolses has descended a 20-meter ice waterfall in the Arctic Circle, Norway, the biggest ever recorded descent of a glacial waterfall. The 32-year-old adventurer from Spain's Catalonia, who is also a Red Bull athlete, paddled through the rapids and ice tunnels of the glacial river on the ice cap before descending the ice waterfall in Brasvellbreen, the Svalbard archipelago of Norway. "The first time navigating through those rapids was absolutely incredible," Serrasolses said. "Like kayaking on another planet. It was actually crazier than I ever thought it would be ... one of the roughest, most wild, and virgin places I've ever seen." "That feeling of levitating above the water. You could see the bottom with those textures, with those movements, with those shapes, and you were on top of your kayak totally transparent. You could look down and see everything." A screenshot of Guardian Sport's X post on November 29 about Aniol Serrasolses. /@guardian_sport A screenshot of Guardian Sport's X post on November 29 about Aniol Serrasolses. /@guardian_sport To access the waterfall, the crew had to climb up the ice cap using a ladder and then walk 11 kilometers across the ice to access the glacial river, crossing streams and crevasses. As the first person to run the waterfall, Serrasolses chose to name the descent "Philip's Ladder" as a tribute to the crew member who pulled the ladder for the duration of the 11km trek to allow the team to get from the boat to the waterfall. "Sometimes I struggle to find the words to express how that felt for the first time. Navigating through those rapids, it was absolutely incredible," he said. A screenshot of Guardian Sports' X video post about Aniol Serrasolses wearing a Red Bull helmet in kayaking. /@guardian_sport A screenshot of Guardian Sports' X video post about Aniol Serrasolses wearing a Red Bull helmet in kayaking. /@guardian_sport "Serrasolses enjoys being lost in nature, having a great time with his friends and pushing the limits of the sport he loves," read a profile of the Spanish kayaker via Red Bull. "I love my life," he said. "I wouldn't change anything about it and I want to keep kayaking, traveling and documenting what we do for many more years!” (With input from Reuters)


--- [World record: Kayaker drops off 20m ice waterfall - Red Bull] ---
Catalan adventurer and elite kayaker Aniol Serrasolses shatters boundaries on his Arctic expedition when he descends a 20m-high ice waterfall - the largest ever recorded kayak drop from a glacial waterfall. 54 min Ice Waterfalls Aniol Serrasolses pushes limits in Norway, kayaking down a 20m-high ice waterfall, the largest ever recorded. The Red Bull TV documentary Ice Waterfalls above is not just a story of a record-breaking achievement and breathtaking action, but also a narrative of human resilience, innovation, and the relentless pursuit of adventure. "Words fail to capture this overwhelming sensation", Serrasolses says, looking back. "It felt like kayaking on an entirely different planet. Undoubtedly, it is the most extraordinary kayak experience of my life." Undoubtedly, Ice Waterfalls is the most extraordinary kayak experience of my life Aniol Serrasolses leads epic expedition to conquer glacial waterfall in remote region With a small crew, Aniol Serrasolses set out on a 36-hour voyage into the remote Svalbard archipelago of Norway - in one of the least explored regions on Earth made up of unforgiving icy terrain. Along with fellow kayakers David Sodomka, Aleix Salvat and Mikel Sarasola, Aniol Serrasolses chases one ultimate goal: to find and descend an enormous glacial waterfall. The group hiked 11 kilometres across the ice to access the glacial river. Witnessing ice breaking in Svalbrad "We found ourselves in an ever-changing and completely unforeseeable landscape", says Serrasolses. "We were well aware of the risks involved, but when you take in your surroundings, it all becomes clear." Maneuvring the icy rapids in Svalbrad to get to the waterfall was something extraordinary, even for the experienced kayaker Serrasolses. He had been dreaming of kayaking an ice waterfall for years, he admits, and had meticulously planned the expedition. Despite all the preparation, he speaks of encounters that took his breath away: "One of the things that surprised me, is that feeling of levitating above the water. You could see the bottom with those textures, with those movements, with those shapes - you saw the ice. You saw the ice breaking. It was incredible." The pressure of having just one chance to descend the ice waterfall One of the challenges of the endeavour was to nail the perfect line with the first and only attempt - as the window to complete was small and the waterfall would disappear. Serrasolses admits that he felt the pressure to perform: "I had this fire of, I need to go get it and I need to do it now, or the moment will be gone." Italian fashion label Prada Linea Rossa played a key role in the success of the kayaking feat. Serrasolses' partner supplied the technical gear to face the harsh Arctic conditions - and equipped the kayaker with advanced textiles engineered for comfort and high-performance in extreme environments. Serrasolses is more than just an exceptional kayaker. The 33-year old Spaniard currently lives in Chile where he runs a tourism business with his brother. He is also building a lodge, and bringing clients from abroad aside his professional kayak career. Watch Ice Waterfalls on Red Bull TV Watch Ice Waterfalls on Red Bull TV to experience this otherworldly journey deep into the wild Arctic, where the soul of adventure and the spirit of kayaking come alive! Part of this story
