=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[James Levine - Wikipedia]
James Lawrence Levine (/ lɪˈvaɪn / liv-EYEN; June 23, 1943 - March 9, 2021) [2] was an American conductor and pianist. He was music director of the Metropolitan Opera from 1976 to 2016, and wielded the baton for 2577 Met performances. At the end of his career, his reputation was tarnished by allegations of sexual misconduct. [3][2][4] Levine denied the claims, but the Met found them ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/James_Levine

[» Browse Inductees | Classical Music Walk Of Fame]
Levine, James Lewis, Henry Library of Congress Music Division Los Angeles Master Chorale Ma, Yo-Yo Maazel, Lorin MacDowell, Edward Mahler, Gustav Martino, Donald Mason, Lowell Mehta, Zubin Menotti, Gian Carlo Metropolitan Opera Milhaud, Darius Mitropoulos, Dimitri Mormon Tabernacle Choir Muti, Riccardo New York Philharmonic Noble, Weston Norman ...
URL: https://classicalwalkoffame.org/browse-inductees/

[James Levine | Biography, Music, & Facts | Britannica]
James Levine, American conductor and pianist, especially noted for his work with the Metropolitan Opera of New York City. He was considered the preeminent American conductor of his generation. As he neared retirement, he faced allegations of sexual abuse. Learn more about his life and career.
URL: https://www.britannica.com/biography/James-Levine

[James Levine - Birthdate: June 23rd, 1943]
Awards and Honors Grammy Award for Best Opera Recording (1997) for his production of Wagner's Ring cycle National Medal of Arts (1997) Kennedy Center Honoree (2002) Inducted into the American Classical Music Hall of Fame (2003)
URL: https://isitaholidaytoday.com/birthday/JamesLevine

[View Inductees]
The American Classical Music Hall Of Fame offers a complimentary ... James Levine took over in 2002. An offshoot of the Boston Symphony Orchestra ...
URL: https://classicalwalkoffame.org/view-inductee/?id=110


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [James Levine - Wikipedia] ---
James Lawrence Levine ( liv-EYEN; June 23, 1943 – March 9, 2021) was an American conductor and pianist. He was music director of the Metropolitan Opera from 1976 to 2016, and wielded the baton for 2577 Met performances. At the end of his career, his reputation was tarnished by allegations of sexual misconduct. Levine denied the claims, but the Met found them credible enough to fire him in 2018.
Levine held leadership positions with the Ravinia Festival, the Munich Philharmonic, and the Boston Symphony Orchestra. In 1980 he started the Lindemann Young Artists Development Program, and trained singers, conductors, and musicians for professional careers.
After taking an almost two-year health-related hiatus from conducting from 2011 to 2013, during which time he held artistic and administrative planning sessions at the Met, and led training of the Lindemann Young Artists, Levine retired as the Met's full-time Music Director following the 2015–16 season to become Music Director Emeritus.


--- [» Browse Inductees | Classical Music Walk Of Fame] ---
The American Classical Music Hall Of Fame offers a complimentary smartphone application for playing inductee music through your phone and also through Washington Park’s PA system. Download Android Player Download Player On iOS No, thank you. Just take me to the website.165 Inductees Since 1998 ASCAP Adams, John Adler, Samuel Alsop, Marin American Guild of Organists Anderson, Marian Apollo's Fire Arroyo, Martina Ax, Emanuel BMI Babbit, Milton Baldwin Piano Company Barber, Samuel Bartok, Bela Beach, Amy Beaux Arts Trio Bernstein, Leonard Billings, William Bolcom, William Bookspan, Martin Boston Symphony Orchestra Boulanger, Nadia Brubeck, Dave Burleigh, Henry Cage, John Caldwell, Sarah Carter, Elliot Casals, Pablo Chadwick, George Whitefield Chanticleer Chicago Symphony Orchestra Chorus America Cincinnati Opera Cincinnati Symphony Orchestra Cleveland Orchestra Cliburn, Van Conlon, James Coolidge, Elizabeth Sprague Copland, Aaron Corigliano, John Crider, Paula Crumb, George DeLay, Dorothy Diamond, David Dvorak, Antonin Ellington, Duke Emerson String Quartet Fennell, Frederick Fiedler, Arthur Fisk Jubilee Singers Fleisher, Leon Fleming, Renée Foss, Lukas Gershwin, George Gingold, Josef Glass, Philip Goto, Midori Gottschalk, Louis Moreau (Melissa) Gould, Morton Graffman, Gary Griffes, Charles Tomlinson Guarneri Quartet Hancock, Gerre Handel and Haydn Society Hanson, Howard Heifetz, Jascha Herseth, Adolph Sylvester “Bud” Hillis, Margaret Hindemith, Paul Hitchcock, H. Wiley Horne, Marilyn Interlochen Center for the Arts Ives, Charles John Philip Sousa Band Joplin, Scott Juilliard School Julliard String Quartet Kernis, Aaron Jay Koussevitzky, Serge Kronos Quartet Kunzel, Erich LaSalle Quartet Larsen, Libby League of American Orchestras Levine, James Lewis, Henry Library of Congress Music Division Los Angeles Master Chorale Ma, Yo-Yo Maazel, Lorin MacDowell, Edward Mahler, Gustav Martino, Donald Mason, Lowell Mehta, Zubin Menotti, Gian Carlo Metropolitan Opera Milhaud, Darius Mitropoulos, Dimitri Mormon Tabernacle Choir Muti, Riccardo New York Philharmonic Noble, Weston Norman, Jessye Opera America Ormandy, Eugene Paine, John Knowles Perlman,Itzak Philadelphia Orchestra Phillips, Harvey G. Piatigorsky, Gregor Piston, Walter Polisi, Joseph Previn, Andre Price, Leontyne Rachleff, Larry Rachmaninoff, Sergei Reich, Steve Reiner, Fritz Reynolds, H. Robert Rorem, Ned Rudolf, Max Schippers, Thomas Schnabel, Artur Schoenberg, Arnold Schuller, Gunther Schuman, William Serkin, Rudolf Sessions, Roger Shaw, Robert Sills, Beverly Slatkin, Leonard Slonimsky, Nicolas Solti, Sir Georg Sousa, John Philip St. Louis Symphony Starker, János Steinberg, Michael Steinway & Sons Stern, Isaac Stevens, Rise Still, William Grant Stokowski, Leopold Stravinsky, Igor Szell, George Tanglewood Music Festival Thomas, Theodore Thomson, Virgil Tilson Thomas, Michael Toscanini, Arturo Tower, Joan United States Marine Band Varese, Edgard Wadsworth, Charles Walker, George Walter, Bruno Warfield, William Warland, Dale Watts, Andre Westminster Choir College Williams, John Zhang, Xian Zinman, David Zwilich, Ellen Taaffe von Stade, Frederica


--- [James Levine | Biography, Music, & Facts | Britannica] ---
James Levine - Who was James Levine? - What is a conductor and what does a pianist do? - What are some major orchestras or opera companies James Levine worked with? - What are some of the achievements or awards James Levine received? - How did James Levine influence American classical music and opera? - What controversies or challenges did James Levine face later in his career? James Levine (born June 23, 1943, Cincinnati, Ohio, U.S.—died March 9, 2021, Palm Springs, California) was an American conductor and pianist, especially noted for his work with the Metropolitan Opera (Met) of New York City. He was considered the preeminent American conductor of his generation. As a piano prodigy, Levine made his debut in 1953 with the Cincinnati Orchestra in Ohio. He studied piano with the famed teacher Rosina Lhévinne, and from 1961 to 1964 he was a conducting student of Jean Morel at the Juilliard School in New York City. Levine embarked upon his conducting career in 1965, when George Szell invited him to become the assistant conductor of the Cleveland Orchestra, where he remained until 1970. Levine made his Met debut in 1971 with Giacomo Puccini’s Tosca. He became that company’s principal conductor in 1973, its musical director in 1975, and its first artistic director in 1986 (a position from which he resigned in 2004). In his position as conductor and director of the Metropolitan Opera, Levine improved the artistic standards of the company and led the orchestra on numerous domestic and international tours. He formed the Met Chamber Ensemble in 1998, performing ambitious programs, including the 2006 premiere of Elliott Carter’s In the Distances of Sleep, commissioned by Carnegie Hall. In addition to making guest appearances in the United States and Europe, Levine was the musical director of the Chicago Symphony Orchestra at its Ravinia summer festival from 1973 to 1993. Among his critically acclaimed recordings were operas by Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart, Giuseppe Verdi, and Richard Wagner and the symphonies of Johannes Brahms and Gustav Mahler. Levine’s straightforward interpretations were marked by vitality and architectural clarity. He remained active as a recital pianist and recorded chamber music in collaboration with cellist Lynn Harrell. In 1996 Levine conducted an extensive world tour with “The Three Tenors” (José Carreras, Plácido Domingo, and Luciano Pavarotti), and in 1999 he was named chief conductor of the Munich Philharmonic. In 2004 he left that position to become music director of the Boston Symphony. There he programmed music by Arnold Schoenberg and other major 20th-century composers, and he premiered works the orchestra commissioned from Charles Wuorinen and Gunther Schuller. His work with student orchestras at the Boston Symphony’s summer home, the Tanglewood Music Center, was highly praised. In March 2011, as he struggled with various health issues, Levine stepped down as music director of the Boston Symphony. The following September he withdrew from the year’s remaining engagements with the Metropolitan Opera. He returned to the podium in May 2013, but in May 2016 it was announced that the 2015–16 season would be his last and that he would become music director emeritus beginning in the 2016–17 season. Yannick Nézet-Séguin was appointed as his successor. In December 2017 Levine was suspended by the Metropolitan Opera following accusations from three men that he had sexually abused them when they were teenagers decades earlier. The Met also indicated that it had opened an investigation into his conduct. Several months later Levine was fired after the investigation found credible evidence of abuse and harassment before and during his tenure there. Alleging breach of contract and defamation, he subsequently sued the Met, which countersued. The cases were settled out of court in 2019. It was later revealed that Levine had been paid $3.5 million. - Born: - June 23, 1943, Cincinnati, Ohio, U.S. - Died: - March 9, 2021, Palm Springs, California (aged 77) Levine received many honours from cultural and civic organizations in Europe and the United States, including a Kennedy Center Honor and the National Medal of Arts. His recordings earned eight Grammy Awards in the years 1982 through 1991. In 2010 he was elected an honorary member of the American Academy of Arts and Letters.


--- [James Levine - Birthdate: June 23rd, 1943] ---
Renowned pianist and conductor, leading the Metropolitan Opera for over 40 years, known for his technical mastery and interpretive insight. James Levine is widely regarded as one of the most renowned conductors of our time, known for his exceptional skill and enduring legacy as the Music Director of the Metropolitan Opera from 1976 to 2016. With a career spanning over four decades, Levine has made an indelible mark on the world of classical music, shaping the operatic landscape with his unique vision and artistic prowess. Born on June 23, 1943, in Cincinnati, Ohio, to a musical Jewish family, Levine was destined for greatness. His maternal grandfather was a composer and cantor, while his father, Lawrence, was a violinist who led dance bands. Levine began playing the piano at a tender age and made his concert debut at just 10 years old, performing Felix Mendelssohn's Piano Concerto No. 2 with the Cincinnati Symphony Orchestra. Levine's talent and dedication earned him a place at the Juilliard School, where he studied piano and conducting. After completing his studies, he began his professional career as an assistant conductor at the Cleveland Orchestra. In 1976, he took the reins as Music Director of the Metropolitan Opera, a position he held for 40 years, making him the longest-serving Music Director in the Met's history. Under Levine's leadership, the Met flourished, with his innovative productions, collaborative spirit, and dedication to nurturing young talent earning him widespread acclaim. He founded the Lindemann Young Artists Development Program in 1980, providing training and mentorship to aspiring singers, conductors, and musicians. This program has produced some of the most talented artists in the industry, including Renée Fleming, Susan Graham, and Thomas Hampson. Levine has also held leadership positions with the Ravinia Festival, the Munich Philharmonic, and the Boston Symphony Orchestra, further cementing his reputation as a master conductor and pianist. In 2011, Levine took a two-year health-related hiatus from conducting, during which time he continued to oversee artistic and administrative planning at the Met. He retired as the Met's full-time Music Director in 2016, becoming Music Director Emeritus. However, in 2018, he was terminated from all his positions and affiliations with the Met following sexual misconduct allegations, which he denied. Despite the controversy, James Levine's legacy as a conductor, pianist, and educator remains unparalleled. His contributions to the world of classical music continue to inspire and influence generations of artists, ensuring his place as one of the most significant figures in the history of opera. "The art of music is not just about playing the right notes, but about conveying the deeper meaning behind the music." "The most important thing in life is to find what you're passionate about and dedicate yourself to it." 85 Years Old A world-renowned opera singer and conductor, known for his powerful voice and versatility in performing a wide range of operatic roles. He has led several major opera companies and has won numerous awards for his performances. 67 Years Old A world-renowned soprano and actress, celebrated for her stunning vocal range and captivating performances in opera, musical theater, and film. 60 Years Old A renowned bass-baritone opera singer celebrated for his powerful, rich voice and iconic performances in operas like Mozart's "The Magic Flute" and Wagner's "Der Ring des Nibelungen". 54 Years Old A world-renowned opera singer and actress, celebrated for her powerful vocals and captivating stage presence. She has performed leading roles in numerous productions, earning widespread critical acclaim. 50 Years Old A renowned pianist and conductor, leading top orchestras and opera companies, celebrated for his expressive and nuanced performances. He's a master of classical music interpretation.


--- [View Inductees] ---
The American Classical Music Hall Of Fame offers a complimentary smartphone application for playing inductee music through your phone and also through Washington Park’s PA system. Download Android Player Download Player On iOS No, thank you. Just take me to the website.Born in 1881 Ensemble Inducted in 2003 http://www.bso.org/bso/index.jsp?id=bcat5220002 The Boston Symphony Orchestra is one of America’s most renowned orchestras. Its home base is Symphony Hall, one of the finest concert halls in the world. The orchestra was founded in 1881 by Henry Lee Higginson. It went on to have several notable conductors, including Arthur Nikisch and Pierre Monteux. However, it was under the baton of Serge Koussevitzky that the orchestra became best known. Koussevitzky started, and it all still obtains today, radio broadcasts, the Tanglewood Music Center, and the practice of the orchestra’s frequent commissioning of new works. Koussevitzky was followed by Charles Munch who took the orchestra overseas for the first time. Erich Leinsdorf followed Munch then gave way to William Steinberg. Seiji Ozawa succeeded Steinberg and remained for twenty-nine years. James Levine took over in 2002. An offshoot of the Boston Symphony Orchestra is the Boston Pops Orchestra, directed by Arthur Fiedler for fifty years, and now led by Keith Lockhart. Performing with the Boston Symphony and Boston Pops for major choral works are the Tanglewood Festival Chorus, the New England Conservatory Chorus, the Harvard Glee Club, the Radcliffe Choral Society, and the Chorus Pro Musical.
