=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Former Vice President of Naughty Dog Exits Studio]
Nov 10, 2023 · Christian Gyrling, the Head of Technology at Naughty Dog, has left the studio after 17 years. Gyrling’s departure was announced by Naughty Dog on Twitter on November 10, 2023.
URL: https://tryhardguides.com/former-vice-president-of-naughty-dog-exits-studio/

[Naughty Dog's Head of Technology Departs Studio After 17 Years ...]
Nov 10, 2023 · After 17 years, Naughty Dog’s Head of Technology, Christian Gyrling is leaving the studio, with a fellow colleague of his taking his position. Naughty Dog made the surprise announcement on X, confirming Gyrling departure. Travis Mcintosh, a 19-year veteran at Naughty Dog, will be filling Gyrling ...
URL: https://mp1st.com/news/naughty-dogs-head-of-technology-departs-studio-after-17-years-successor-named

[Naughty Dog's technology head Christian Gyrling departs after 17 years]
Nov 10, 2023 · From 2020 to earlier this year, Gyrling was the developer's vice president before reverting to a head of technology role this past summer. Outside of Naughty Dog, he also worked at High Moon Studios (2004-2006) and WMS Gaming Inc (2001-2003). Stepping in for Gyrling will be Travis McIntosh, who's been with Naughty Dog for 19 years.
URL: https://www.gamedeveloper.com/business/naughty-dog-s-technology-head-christian-gyrling-departs-after-17-year-tenure

[Naughty Dog Head Of Technology And 17-Year Studio Vet Christian Gyrling ...]
Nov 10, 2023 — “Our head of technology Christian Gyrling has decided to leave Naughty Dog after an amazing 17-year career at our studio,” the statement began.
URL: https://www.psu.com/news/naughty-dog-head-of-technology-and-17-year-studio-vet-christian-gyrling-has-left-the-company/

[Naughty Dog's Head of Technology Christian Gyrling Departs Studio After ...]
Nov 12, 2023 · One of Naughty Dog's longest tenured employees is departing the studio. The developer has announced that Christian Gyrling, the Head of Technology, is leaving after 17 years of being with the company.
URL: https://games.mxdwn.com/news/naughty-dogs-head-of-technology-christian-gyrling-departs-studio-after-17-years/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Former Vice President of Naughty Dog Exits Studio] ---
Christian Gyrling, the Head of Technology at Naughty Dog, has left the studio after 17 years. Gyrling’s departure was announced by Naughty Dog on Twitter on November 10, 2023. It’s also not clear if this is immediately or coming soon. As mentioned in a tweet from Naughty Dog, “Our head of technology Christian Gyrling has decided to leave Naughty Dog after an amazing 17-year career at our studios,” Naughty Dog said in its tweet. “We’re grateful for his many contributions to the studio, our games, and his teammates. We will miss Christian greatly and wish him the best of luck on where his path leads next.” Gyrling was actually the Vice President of the Naughty Dog studio before reverting back to Head of Technology this Summer. As head of technology, he would be in charge of the studio’s technology, including game engine development, graphics, and artificial intelligence. It’s unclear why he pulled back to a lower role. Gyrling’s contributions to Naughty Dog are significant. He played a key role in the development of the studio’s most recent games, including Uncharted 4: A Thief’s End, The Last of Us Part II, and other games as the head of technology. Naughty Dog games tend to not only look great but play great. The technology department is one of a kind and top-tier. Gyrling did a fantastic job on games the company has produced. My favorite games from Naughty Dog have been the Uncharted series, where I learned that games could be as cinematic as they are fun. It’s clear that Gyrling was doing amazing things at Naughty Dog. Gyrling’s replacement has already been named. Travis McIntosh, a 19-year veteran at Naughty Dog, will succeed Gyrling as Head of Technology. It is unclear why Gyrling has decided to leave Naughty Dog, but we wish him well wherever he ends up.


--- [Naughty Dog's Head of Technology Departs Studio After 17 Years ...] ---
Naughty Dog’s Head of Technology Departs Studio After 17 Years, Successor Named After 17 years, Naughty Dog’s Head of Technology, Christian Gyrling is leaving the studio, with a fellow colleague of his taking his position. Naughty Dog made the surprise announcement on X, confirming Gyrling departure. Travis Mcintosh, a 19-year veteran at Naughty Dog, will be filling Gyrling’s position at the studio. — Naughty Dog (@Naughty_Dog) November 10, 2023 “Our head of technology Christian Gyrling has decided to leave Naughty Gog after an amazing 17-year career at our studio. We’re grateful for his many contributions to the studio, our games, and his teammates. We will miss Christian Greatly and wish him the best of luck on where his path leads next. Travis Mcintosh, a 19-year veteran at Naughty Dog, will succeed Christian as head of technology.” Christian Gyrling started his journey at Naughty Dog as a programmer in 2006, moving up the ranks to eventually Vice President in 2020. He transitioned into the Head of Technology back in July of this year. Christian has yet to release any comment on either X or LinkedIn on where he might be going next. Travis Mcintosh, who has been at the studio since 2004 as Programming Director, will now be the studio’s Head of Technology. No statement has been posted by him either on the matter. This news comes at a rather interesting time, as the industry is experiencing widespread layoffs, with Naughty Dog reportedly having some, too. While it’s common for people to leave a company after years of commitment, one does have to wonder if this is just a coincidence or if there’s something more to it. Many key figures from PlayStation, including CEO Jim Ryan, who’s retiring next year, and Head of Production, Connie Booth (reportedly fired) are among the few top figures to leave the company, and Bungie was also hit with layoffs recently. Let’s hope we’re nearing the end of departures and layoffs for the gaming industry. Stay connected to MP1st and the latest news by following us on Bluesky, X, Facebook, TikTok, YouTube, and Google News.


--- [Naughty Dog's technology head Christian Gyrling departs after 17 years] ---
Christian Gyrling, the current technology head of Naughty Dog, is leaving the studio. The Uncharted and Last of Us developer confirmed the news on X (formerly Twitter), stating he had an "amazing 17-year run" at the company. "We're grateful for his many contributions to the studio, our games, and his teammates. We'll miss Christian greatly and wish him the best of luck on where his path leads next." He marks the second recent high-profile exit for one of Sony's biggest first-party studios. This past summer, co-president Evan Wells announced he would retire from his 25-year home by the end of 2023. Outside of the two men, the developer recently let go of 25 contract workers and shelved its multiplayer project for The Last of Us. Gyrling first joined Naughty Dog in 2006 as a programmer, eventually working his way to a lead role in the department by 2017. Beginning with 2007's Uncharted: Drake's Fortune, he had a hand in near every Naughty Dog-made game, from the Uncharted sequels to 2020's The Last of Us Part II. Gyrling's Naughty Dog tenure From 2020 to earlier this year, Gyrling was the developer's vice president before reverting to a head of technology role this past summer. Outside of Naughty Dog, he also worked at High Moon Studios (2004-2006) and WMS Gaming Inc (2001-2003). Stepping in for Gyrling will be Travis McIntosh, who's been with Naughty Dog for 19 years. Like Gyrling, he joined ahead of the release of the original Drake's Fortune, and has been a programmer on the developer's work prior to last year's The Last of Us Part I.


--- [Naughty Dog Head Of Technology And 17-Year Studio Vet Christian Gyrling ...] ---
No content


--- [Naughty Dog's Head of Technology Christian Gyrling Departs Studio After ...] ---
One of Naughty Dog’s longest tenured employees is departing the studio. The developer has announced that Christian Gyrling, the Head of Technology, is leaving after 17 years of being with the company. Gyrling’s contributions to Naughty Dog have been substantial, as he was part of both the Uncharted and The Last of Us’s development teams, playing an integral role in engineering the in-game graphics as well as the overall performance of the titles. His now former position, the Head of Technology, will be taken by another longtime employee, Travis McIntosh, who has been with the studio for 19 years now. Naughty Dog’s Head of Technology Christian Gyrling leaves Naughty Dog after 17 years. Travis McIntosh will take over his role. pic.twitter.com/XCh2nI2d22 — Knoebel (@Knoebelbroet) November 10, 2023 As we already mentioned, Gyrling’s tenure at Naughty Dog has seen him build an impressive resume. He joined the company back in 2007 and was put to work right away on the very first Uncharted title, Uncharted: Drakes Fortune, as a programmer. Gyrling has since been credited in ever major Naughty Dog release, including all of the subsequent Uncharted titles, and eventually taking on a much higher role in the highly acclaimed The Last of Us: Part II. He then became Naughty Dog’s vice president from 2020 to 2023, before going back to his role of Head of Technology this past Summer. Gyrling is the most recent longtime employee to leave the studio, as former Co-President Evan Wells left this past Summer after being with the company for than 25 years. In addition, Naughty Dog also laid off approximately 25 employees last month with some reports stating that it had to do with the development of its The Last Of Us multiplayer shooter spin-off which has been allegedly scaled down. Regardless of where Gyrling’s future ventures take him, his impact at Naughty Dog has been incredibly critical to the success of their more recent franchises, cementing his legacy with the company. Play games, take surveys and take advantage of special offers to help support mxdwn. Every dollar helps keep the content you love coming every single day.
