=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[George Melly - Wikipedia]
Alan George Heywood Melly (17 August 1926 - 5 July 2007) was an English jazz and blues singer, critic, writer, and lecturer. From 1965 to 1973, he was a film and television critic for The Observer; he also lectured on art history, with an emphasis on surrealism.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/George_Melly

[George Melly | JazzSkool.org | Fandom]
Alan George Heywood Melly (17 August 1926 - 5 July 2007) was an English jazz and blues singer, critic, writer and lecturer. From 1965 to 1973 he was a film and television critic for The Observer and lectured on art history, with an emphasis on surrealism.[1] He was born in Liverpool and was educated at Stowe school, where he discovered his interest in modern art, jazz and blues, and started ...
URL: https://jaz.fandom.com/wiki/George_Melly

[George Melly - LGBT Archive]
He was born in Liverpooland was educated at Stowe School, where he discovered his interest in modern art, jazz and blues, and started coming to terms with his sexuality. Melly once stated that he may have been drawn to surrealism by a particular experience he had during his teenage years. A frequent visitor to Liverpool's Sefton Park near his home,...
URL: https://www.lgbthistoryuk.org/wiki/George_Melly

[George Melly - The Telegraph]
Jul 6, 2007 · From 1965 to 1972 he worked as a pop music, television and film critic on The Observer and won the Critic of the Year award at the 1970 IPC National Press Awards.
URL: https://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/obituaries/1556510/George-Melly.html

[George Melly Movies and Shows]
Alan George Heywood Melly was an English jazz and blues singer, critic, writer, and lecturer. From 1965 to 1973, he was a film and television critic for The ...
URL: https://tv.apple.com/us/person/george-melly/umc.cpc.frsn4blhe8xv4f87umhszpr8


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [George Melly - Wikipedia] ---
Alan George Heywood Melly (17 August 1926 – 5 July 2007) was an English jazz and blues singer, critic, writer, and lecturer. From 1965 to 1973, he was a film and television critic for The Observer; he also lectured on art history, with an emphasis on surrealism.


--- [George Melly | JazzSkool.org | Fandom] ---
No content


--- [George Melly - LGBT Archive] ---
George Melly Early life and career He was born in Liverpool and was educated at Stowe School, where he discovered his interest in modern art, jazz and blues, and started coming to terms with his sexuality. Melly once stated that he may have been drawn to surrealism by a particular experience he had during his teenage years. A frequent visitor to Liverpool's Sefton Park near his home, he often entered its tropical Palm House and there chatted to wounded soldiers from a nearby military hospital. It was the incongruity of this sight, men smoking among the exotic plants, dressed in their hospital uniforms and usually deficient a limb, that he felt he later recognised in the work of the Surrealists. He joined the Royal Navy at the end of the Second World War because, as he quipped to the recruiting officer, the uniforms were 'so much nicer'. As he related in his autobiography, Rum, Bum and Concertina, he was crestfallen to discover that he would not be sent to a ship and was thus denied the "bell-bottom" uniform he desired. Instead he received desk duty and wore the other Navy uniform, described as "the dreaded fore-and-aft". Later, however, he did see ship duty. He never saw active combat, but was almost court-martialled for distributing anarchist literature.[2] Post-war life and career After the war, Melly found work in a London Surrealist gallery, working with E L T Mesens and eventually drifted into the world of jazz, finding work with Mick Mulligan's Magnolia Jazz Band. This was a time (1948 onwards) when New Orleans and "New Orleans Revival" style jazz were very popular in Britain. In January 1963, the British music magazine NME reported that the biggest trad jazz event to be staged in Britain had taken place at Alexandra Palace. The event included Alex Welsh, Diz Disley, Acker Bilk, Chris Barber, Kenny Ball, Ken Colyer, Monty Sunshine, Bob Wallis, Bruce Turner, Mick Mulligan and Melly.[3] He retired from jazz in the early 1960s when he became a film critic for The Observer and a writer on the Daily Mail's satirical newspaper strip "Flook", illustrated by Trog. He was also scriptwriter on the 1967 satirical film Smashing Time. This period of his life is described in Owning Up. He returned to jazz in the early 1970s with John Chilton's Feetwarmers, a partnership that ended only in 2003. He later sang with Digby Fairweather's band. He released three albums in the 1970s including Nuts in 1972 and Son of Nuts the next year.[4] He wrote a light column, "Mellymobile", in Punch magazine describing their tours. He was an Honorary Associate of the National Secular Society and a Distinguished Supporter of the British Humanist Association. George Melly was President of the BHA 1972-4, and was also an Honorary Associate of the Rationalist Association. He was also a member of the Max Miller Appreciation Society and on 1 May 2005 joined Roy Hudd, Sir Norman Wisdom and others in unveiling a statue of Miller in Brighton. His singing style, particularly for the blues, was strongly influenced by his idol, Bessie Smith. While many British musicians of the time treated jazz and blues with almost religious solemnity, Melly rejoiced in their more bawdy side, and this was reflected in his choice of songs and exuberant stage performances. He recorded a track called "Old Codger" with The Stranglers in 1978 specially written for him by the band. Melly, who was bisexual, moved from strictly homosexual relationships in his teens and twenties to largely heterosexual relationships from his thirties onwards.[5] He married twice and had a child from each marriage, though his first child Pandora was not known to be his until she was much older. He married his second wife, Diana Moynihan (née Dawson), in 1963.[1] She brought with her two children (Candy and Patrick) from two previous marriages, though Patrick later died from heroin overdose in his twenties. Their own son, Tom, was born two days after the wedding. Diana published an autobiography in 2005 of their life and (open) marriage together, which is included in the bibliography. The two participated in a televised celebrity couples quiz in the 1970s. Asked separately what made them decide to marry, Diana announced "I was pregnant!" and George, in his turn, merely said, "The less said about that, the better." Brecon George and Diana Melly had a country retreat, The Tower, at Scethrog in the Brecon Beacons, between 1971 and 1999. This was somewhere Melly could escape the jazz world and indulge his love of fishing on the River Usk. However, jazz followed him to Wales and this led to a series of celebrated performances in the area and in the South Wales Valleys. In 1984 the Brecon Jazz Festival was conceived by a group of jazz enthusiasts who gained widespread support from the local community. George Melly was the first musician to be contracted for the opening festival and remained a supporter until his death. He was a factor in the festival's success and served as its President in 1991. As well as being the President of the Contemporary Arts Society For Wales, Melly was a contemporary art collector. His passion for surrealist art continued throughout his life and he lectured and wrote extensively on the subject. His passion for fly-fishing never dwindled and in later life he sold several important paintings (by Magritte and Picasso) to enable him to buy a mile of the River Usk. In 2000 he published Hooked!, a book on fly-fishing. Later years He was still active in music, journalism, and lecturing on surrealism and other aspects of modern art until his death, despite worsening health problems such as vascular dementia,[6] incipient emphysema and lung cancer.[7] His encouragement and support to gallery owner Michael Budd led to a posthumous exhibition for the modern abstract artist François Lanzi.[8] In addition to age-related health problems, Melly suffered from environmental hearing loss because of long-term exposure to on-stage sound systems, and his hearing in both ears became increasingly poor. Despite these problems, however, Melly would often joke that he found some parts of his ailing health to be enjoyable. He often equated his dementia to a quite amusing LSD trip, and took a lot of pleasure from his deafness, which he said made many boring conversations more interesting. On Sunday 10 June 2007, Melly made an appearance, announced as his last ever performance, at the 100 Club in London. This was on the occasion of a fund-raising event to benefit the charity supporting his carers. He died at his London home of lung cancer and emphysema (which he had for the last two years of his life) aged 80 on 5 July 2007.[1] His Humanist funeral was held at the West London Crematorium, in Kensal Green. The hearse was led by a jazz band, including Kenny Ball on trumpet, playing a New Orleans funeral march. His cardboard coffin was covered with old snapshots and cartoons of Melly by his friends, as well as hand-drawn decorations. On 17 February 2008 BBC Two broadcast George Melly's Last Stand (produced by Walker George Films), an intimate portrayal of Melly's last months. His sister Andrée Melly is an actress,[9] living in Ibiza with her husband, Oscar Quitak. His widow, Diana Melly, is an author. In the Channel 4 documentary Stoned in Suburbia Melly compared a joint of cannabis to a fine port after dinner, and said "it should be passed round to the right, you swines". References Based on a Wikipedia article. - ↑ 1.01.11.2 Jazz singer George Melly dies, The Telegraph, 5 July 2007 - ↑ The Scotsman, "George Melly" 6 July 2007 - ↑ John Tobler NME Rock 'N' Roll Years, Reed International Books Ltd 1992, page 116. - ↑ http://www.bbc.co.uk/music/release/mx8c/ Andrew McGregor, "George Melly, Nuts and Son of Nuts", BBC Review, 21 June 2007 - ↑ http://www.guardian.co.uk/books/2005/jul/17/biography.tvandradio Lynn Barber "George and I were drunk with sex", The Observer, 17 July 2005 - ↑ http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/health/6400999.stm "Singer Melly has early dementia", BBC News, 27 February 2007 - ↑ Melly, Tom http://www.theregister.co.uk/2007/03/15/tom_melly_wikipedia_comment/page2.html Truths, half-truths, and Wikipedia, The Register, 15 March 2007. - ↑ correspondence dated 30.04.1992 to 13.07.1992 - ↑ Christopher Stevens, Born Brilliant: The Life Of Kenneth Williams. John Murray 2010 isbn = 1-84854-195-3 page 81


--- [George Melly - The Telegraph] ---
George Melly, the jazz singer, author and raconteur who died yesterday aged 80, leched, drank and blasphemed his way around the clubs and pubs of the British Isles and provided pleasure to the public for five decades. Melly’s involvement in jazz was born out of a romantic nostalgia for a golden age of brothel music. Appearing in the 1950s with Mick Mulligan’s Magnolia band and later for nearly three decades with John Chilton’s Feetwarmers, "Good Time George" followed a well-established routine of singing numbers from the 1920s (his foremost influences being Bessie Smith, Fats Waller and Jelly Roll Morton) interspersed with camp asides and bawdy anecdotes. Loopy-mouthed and rotund under an outsized fedora, Melly could always be relied upon to wear louder suits and tell better, funnier and dirtier jokes than anyone else on the circuit. With a smile once described as "a cross between a leer and a twinkle", he pushed hard at the boundaries of public taste, knowing that, like the errant schoolboy he once was, he would always be forgiven. "I have this ability to appear outrageous without paying the consequences for it," he observed. Melly went through periods of colossal excess. When he and John Chilton began their annual Christmas season at Ronnie Scott’s in 1973 (the first of a series of Christmas bookings that ran for more than a quarter of a century) Melly’s performances had a uniquely erratic quality: "The captain is no longer in command of the ship," was one of John Chilton’s more diplomatic announcements as Melly, one night, slumped down the microphone stand on to the deck. Along with his drinking, his sexuality (about which he was remarkably candid) became inseparable from his public image. Beginning with mutually satisfactory fondlings beneath the desks at prep school, he proceeded at Stowe, and in the lower decks of the Royal Navy, to a life of enthusiastic homosexuality; though when the former editor of The Sunday Telegraph, Sir Peregrine Worsthorne, claimed to have been seduced by Melly on the Stowe art room sofa, Melly denied the charge: "I seduced many young men," he conceded, "but he was years older, so I wouldn’t have dared." Despite these Bohemian urges, Melly had been born with a strong instinct for self-preservation: "I didn’t carry my romanticism to the point of an early grave," he once acknowledged. "My own middle-class background came and reclaimed me before it was too late." After being seduced by Sybil Mesens, the wife of the surrealist ELT Mesens, he became "absolutely devoted to heterosexuality", a conversion confirmed by 44 years of more or less happy marriage to his second wife Diana. His heroic consumption of alcohol took longer to renounce, but from the early 1980s, when he changed a bottle of brandy a night for a bottle of wine, Melly could generally be relied upon to stay upright for the duration of a performance, although his act remained as unpredictable as ever. On one occasion at Ronnie Scott’s Melly had decided to perform in full drag, and sent John Chilton on to the stage to tell the audience that he was indisposed — but that, luckily, his aunt Georgina, who knew all of his songs, would valiantly fill the gap. "Georgina" duly swept on stage, and the disguise was so complete that the audience was wholly deceived. The effect was disastrous. Whereas George Melly suggestively warbling I Want A Hot Dog In My Roll had always been received with bellows of laughter, when "Aunt Georgina" sang the same words, Chilton recalled, "it presented a pathetic picture of an old trout begging to be serviced". Afterwards, two appalled members of the audience came up to Chilton and said they sincerely hoped George would soon recover. There was, though, a serious side to the funster and jazz singer. Surrealism, along with jazz, was the great passion of Melly’s life and he lectured and wrote extensively on the subject. But lewdness was never divorced from scholarship, and serious research was always spiced with saucy anecdotes about encounters with prostitutes and seedy metropolitan low-life. The more prosaic could find Melly’s "surrealist" side disconcerting. He admitted to belonging to an "unofficial club of surreally-minded people" who took "certain mutual premises" for granted; and his conversation would often be spiced with baffling non-sequiturs which left others feeling the conversation was getting out of control. "Yes, you’re right. Maud was a star in the amateur theatre," he would reply to a question about something entirely different. Some, though, attributed this characteristic to the fact that in his later life he was almost stone deaf. Alan George Heywood Melly was born in Liverpool on August 17 1926. The Melly family were wealthy pillars of Liverpool society and young George and his brother and sister led a comfortable life in a large, ugly, Victorian terraced house in the Sefton Park area. His parents were unusual for their time. His mother, Maud, a talented amateur actress, Jewish and flamboyant, had a close circle of homosexual friends whom Melly’s father Tom, an open-minded and undemanding man, was happy to have in the house: "I learned to equate wit and creativity with homosexuality even before I knew what it was," George Melly later recalled. He still did not know what it was at Parkfield prep school when, aged nine, he was introduced by an older boy to the pleasures of "rubbing up", a practice which grew into something of an epidemic at the school and which was temporarily halted only when some of the older boys were discovered in flagrante in the changing rooms by the headmaster, an eccentric martinet called WW Twynne. The young Melly was subsequently astonished to learn that this pleasurable activity was in some way associated with procreation. He would later recall these early years in Scouse Mouse, his third volume of autobiography, published in 1984. At Stowe Melly broadened his interests and discovered the pleasures of jazz after hearing a recording of Bessie Smith singing Gimme a Pig-foot and a Bottle of Beer. He also became passionate about the Surrealists after reading Herbert Read’s book on the subject. His sex life, too, developed beyond youthful fondlings, so that: "I left Stowe a convinced homosexual, believing and accepting I would always remain one. I felt no shame. On the contrary I considered myself part of an elite, a freemasonry whose members held most of the keys to what was truly creative and exciting in the grown-up world." From school, at the tail end of the war, he joined the Royal Navy because he liked the uniform, though unlike many of his fellow old boys he failed to be promoted to the upper deck. In 1977 he chronicled his three and a half years as an able seaman in the appropriately titled Rum, Bum and Concertina, a bawdy account concerned chiefly with his serial seductions of young men and his run-ins with authority in the shape of a warrant officer called Perkins. At around this time he began to sing to amuse his colleagues, and in 1947 he was dropped from a Royal Naval Command Variety Performance after Warrant Officer Perkins discovered a pile of anarchist leaflets in his locker. Since the number he had been intending to perform before the King was his own highly suggestive rendition of Frankie and Johnnie (a song that became a standard in his repertoire) it was probably as well. On his leaves in London, Melly met ELT Mesens, the Belgian surrealist and art dealer who had come to Britain in 1936 to run the London Gallery in Brook Street and was generally acknowledged to be the leader of the surrealist movement in Britain. After leaving the Navy Melly became his assistant at the gallery, and it was through Mesens that he began his journey to heterosexuality. Melly’s discovery of women came about in 1948 at the age of 22 when Sybil Mesens invited him to bed in front of her husband. Melly managed to oblige, watched and then followed by Mesens himself: "It was the first time I had been to bed with a woman," Melly recalled, "albeit bridged by her husband. Suddenly I discovered I wasn’t gay." Melly later wrote a biography of Mesens entitled Don’t Tell Sybil (1997).While working for Mesens Melly became involved in the traditional jazz scene and began to spend his evenings in clubs on the outskirts of London "where my violent enthusiasm, frequent drunkenness and personal manner of dancing attracted a lot of not entirely kindly amusement". He soon met Mick Mulligan, a jazz trumpeter looking to start his own band, and in 1950 he left Mesens to go on the road with Mulligan’s band. Their public performances began unpromisingly at Perivale youth club, where, in default of a microphone, Melly was reduced to amplifying his voice by shouting into an old biscuit tin. "The lads listened politely," he recalled. "After about half an hour a small boy poked his head round the door of the recreation room and shouted 'Chocolate biscuits in the canteen’. Rationing was still in force and the whole room emptied for the rest of the evening." As revivalist jazz gained ground the band’s fortunes improved, and they toured jazz clubs, dance halls and pubs around the country, playing and drinking into the small hours before retiring, usually dead drunk, to seedy lodgings in regional back streets. Melly remained the band’s featured singer, through many changes of personnel, for 12 years. On the road he gradually widened his experience of women, often by taking Mulligan’s pick-ups off him when he was too drunk to care.In 1955 he became engaged to Victoria Vaughan, but as his wife’s family were Catholic converts and she was under 21, they were forced to elope and were married in Scotland. Within a year, though, the marriage was in a bad way and they parted company. In 1956 Melly became the caption writer to Flook, the strip cartoon in The Daily Mail drawn by Willy Fawkes (alias Trog). The job doubled his income, though much of the extra money went on heroic drinking sessions in El Vino. In 1961 he did a piece for Queen magazine in which he described his life as a jazz singer: "On the Road. Ten years of it. I seem to have spent a lifetime looking out of grimy windows in digs at backyards in the rain. Weeds; rotting iron, collapsing outhouses." Out of that article came other reviews and pieces. By 1962 he and Mulligan decided they had had enough of touring and, after a final concert at which one of the band fell off the stage and pulled a Christmas tree down on top of him, they disbanded, and Melly turned full time to writing and journalism. From 1965 to 1972 he worked as a pop music, television and film critic on The Observer and won the Critic of the Year award at the 1970 IPC National Press Awards. He also produced film scripts for Smashing Time (1968) and Take a Girl Like You (1970), and was a regular guest on The Critics. In 1965 he wrote Owning Up, the first part of his autobiography, about his years with the Mick Mulligan band.Melly continued to get into just about enough trouble to keep life interesting. During the mid-1960s he was arrested in London at a Ban the Bomb demonstration and ended up sharing a cell with Vanessa Redgrave. In 1962, on a visit to the Colony Room, he met Diana Dawson, a woman many years his junior, and they spent the afternoon together. At the time both were married to other people and Melly was attempting a reconciliation with Victoria. Three days later he went to Victoria’s bedroom to tell her he had fallen in love with someone else, but: "before I’d got it out she told me she was leaving. She’d fallen in love with someone else." Divorces ensued, and he and Diana married in 1963 shortly before the birth of their son. In 1971 he gave evidence for the defence in the celebrated Oz trial (the magazine’s editors had been prosecuted under the Obscene Publications Act for a "Schoolkids’ issue" which included pornographic images). He would have been happy, Melly proclaimed, for his 16-year-old son to edit the issue (his son was in fact eight at the time), adding for good measure that a Rupert Bear cartoon featuring the character having sex with an old woman was "the funniest thing in the magazine". By 1972, though, Melly had become bored with "respectability" and returned to performing jazz, now with John Chilton’s Feetwarmers. After recording two LPs for Warner Brothers, Nuts (1972) and Son of Nuts (1974), Melly gave up his job as a critic for life as a full-time professional jazz singer. For a time he had his own show, Good Time George, on BBC2.As he became better known Melly’s act became more and more outrageous and his suits (inspired by the music hall and gangster movies of the 1930s and 1940s) became ever more garish. One, a red and custard coloured tartan was known as Mad Scotch Corner. A bright green number was called Murphy’s Mistake. His drinking, though, began to take a toll on his performance as a singer. After a friend asked him "Do you want to get back to singing really well or do you want to end up each evening unconscious?" he cut down on his consumption, and he and the Feetwarmers continued to perform together until 1998. In addition to his three volumes of autobiography, Melly’s books included Revolt Into Style (1970) in which he explored the role of pop music as a bridge between rebellious adolescence and maturity; The Media Mob (1980, with Barry Fantoni); Tribe of One: Great Naive and Primitive Painters of the British Isles (1981); a biography of Scottie Wilson entitled It’s All Writ Out For You (1986); and a scholarly study (with Michael Woods) of Paris and the Surrealists (1991). From 1970, when he and his wife bought a holiday home in the Brecon Beacons, Melly became a keen fly-fisherman. He remained philosophical about growing old: "The body, like a car, spends more and more time in the garage," he wrote. "Something, though not necessarily serious, is always going wrong. Soon it won’t be worth paying for the repairs." His evenings, the former hell-raiser confessed, were generally spent "drinking chocolate and dunking digestive biscuits while wondering if I can be bothered to watch an 'adult’ movie". George Melly is survived by his wife Diana, by their son, and by a daughter from his first marriage.


--- [George Melly Movies and Shows] ---
George Melly Alan George Heywood Melly was an English jazz and blues singer, critic, writer, and lecturer. From 1965 to 1973, he was a film and television critic for The Observer; he also lectured on art history, with an emphasis on surrealism. Alan George Heywood Melly was an English jazz and blues singer, critic, writer, and lecturer. From 1965 to 1973, he was a film and television critic for The Observer; he also lectured on art history, with an emphasis on surrealism.
