=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Full History Of Oprah Winfrey In Timeline From 1900 - Popular ...]
On September 8, 1981, Winfrey wrote a suicide note to her best friend Gayle King, instructing her to water her plants. This occurred during a period of depression resulting from a four-year affair with a married man.
URL: https://populartimelines.com/timeline/Oprah-Winfrey/full

[Oprah Winfrey]
In 2000, through her Chicago-based LLC Overground Railroad, Oprah purchased her friend Gayle King an estate in Greenwich, Connecticut.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Oprah_Winfrey

[Oprah Winfrey suicidal over married lover, radio DJ Tim Watts ...]
Nov 3, 2011 · Oprah, seen left in the late 80s, was so upset after the breakup that she wrote a note to long time best friend Gayle King, seen her with Winfrey in 2004, who supposedly put her on watch after the ...
URL: https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-2056786/Oprah-Winfrey-suicidal-married-lover-radio-DJ-Tim-Watts-heartbreak.html

[Oprah and Gayle King's Friendship Timeline]
Mar 8, 2024 · To celebrate Oprah and Gayle's enduring friendship, we put together a timeline of their standout moments, starting from how they met in the 1970s.
URL: https://www.oprahdaily.com/life/relationships-love/a26965035/oprah-and-gayle-friendship/

[Oprah Winfrey - PureHistory]
Jul 12, 2013 · Winfrey became so depressed that on September 8, 1981, she wrote a suicide note to best friend Gayle King instructing King to water her plants. “That suicide note had been much overplayed” Winfrey told Ms. magazine.
URL: https://purehistory.org/3-oprah-winfrey/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Full History Of Oprah Winfrey In Timeline From 1900 - Popular ...] ---
Oprah Winfrey is an influential American talk show host, television producer, actress, author, and media proprietor. She is renowned for 'The Oprah Winfrey Show,' a nationally syndicated talk show that aired for 25 years. Winfrey is the richest Black woman globally and a wealthy female celebrity, once considered the world's only Black billionaire. Often ranked among the most influential women, she is dubbed the "Queen of All Media." Her career spans decades, solidifying her status as a prominent figure in media and culture. Hattie Mae (Presley) Lee, Oprah Winfrey's maternal grandmother, was born on April 15, 1900. Vernon Winfrey, Oprah Winfrey's father, was born in 1933. Vernita Lee, Oprah Winfrey's mother, was born in 1935. On January 29, 1954, Oprah Gail Winfrey was born in Kosciusko, Mississippi. Initially named Orpah, her name was later changed due to frequent mispronunciation. By 1962, Oprah's mother, Lee, was having difficulty raising both daughters, so Winfrey was temporarily sent to live with Vernon in Nashville, Tennessee. On February 27, 1963, Hattie Mae (Presley) Lee, Oprah Winfrey's maternal grandmother, passed away. In 1971, Oprah Winfrey met William "Bubba" Taylor at Tennessee State University after breaking up with Otey. He became her "first intense, to-die-for love affair", according to CBS journalist George Mair. She helped him get a job at WVOL and tried to keep him, but he was unwilling to move with her to Baltimore. In June 1976, Oprah Winfrey moved to Baltimore to work at WJZ-TV, ending her relationship with William "Bubba" Taylor, who was unwilling to leave Nashville with Winfrey. Winfrey recalled that they cared for each other and shared a deep love she would never forget. In 1976, Oprah Winfrey moved to Baltimore's WLAC-TV, becoming the youngest and first black female news anchor at the station. In 1977, Oprah Winfrey was removed as co-anchor at WJZ-TV and worked in lower profile positions at the station. On August 14, 1978, Oprah Winfrey co-hosted the premiere of WJZ's local talk show People Are Talking alongside Richard Sher. On September 8, 1981, Winfrey wrote a suicide note to her best friend Gayle King, instructing her to water her plants. This occurred during a period of depression resulting from a four-year affair with a married man. Winfrey later reflected on the note, stating that she realized she couldn't go through with it because she feared missing out on something good. On January 2, 1984, the first episode of AM Chicago aired with Oprah Winfrey as the host after she relocated to Chicago. In 1985, Oprah Winfrey was allegedly involved in a drug-related affair with Randolph Cook, who claimed they lived together for several months and used drugs. Cook later attempted to sue Winfrey for $20 million in 1997 over a blocked tell-all book about their relationship. In 1985, before Oprah Winfrey's Chicago talk show went national, Haitian filmmaker Reginald Chevalier claimed he had a relationship with Winfrey after appearing as a guest on her show. He described romantic evenings, candlelit baths, and dinners with Michael Jordan and Danny Glover. Chevalier says the relationship ended when Winfrey met Stedman Graham. On September 8, 1986, The Oprah Winfrey Show was broadcast nationwide for the first time, quickly surpassing Donahue as the number-one daytime talk show in America. In 1986, Oprah Winfrey began her relationship with Stedman Graham, her partner. In 1986, Oprah Winfrey publicly announced on her TV show that she had been molested by family members starting at the age of nine, sharing her personal experience with sexual abuse. In 1986, Oprah Winfrey stated that her father saved her by providing structure and expectations when she moved back in with him, significantly changing the course of her life. In 1986, The Oprah Winfrey Show, which was broadcast from Chicago, began its 25-year run in national syndication, making Oprah a household name. In 1987, Oprah Winfrey submitted her final paper and earned her degree from Tennessee State University, a historically black institution, while already being a successful television personality. In August 1988, Time magazine reported on the much-publicized contest between The Oprah Winfrey Show and Donahue, highlighting Oprah's success. In November 1988, Ms. magazine observed that Oprah Winfrey challenged societal norms about body image by succeeding in a medium that favors thinness and "white-bread prettiness" while making "fat sexy, elegant" with her wardrobe and sensuality. In 1989, Jeffrey, Oprah Winfrey's half-brother, died of AIDS-related causes. In 1989, Oprah Winfrey produced and co-starred in the drama miniseries The Women of Brewster Place and its short-lived spin-off, Brewster Place. In 1989, Oprah Winfrey was accepted into the NAACP Image Award Hall of Fame. In 1990, Oprah Winfrey felt betrayed by a family member who sold the story of her prematurely born and deceased son to the National Enquirer. In November 1992, Oprah Winfrey became engaged to Stedman Graham, though the marriage ceremony never took place. From 1992 to 1994, Oprah Winfrey moderated three ABC Afterschool Specials, adding to her television presence. In October 1994, Oprah Winfrey completed the Marine Corps Marathon in under four and a half hours. From 1992 to 1994, Oprah Winfrey moderated three ABC Afterschool Specials, adding to her television presence. In 1994, Oprah Winfrey was inducted into the National Women's Hall of Fame, honoring her significant achievements. Since 1994, Oprah Winfrey shifted her talk-show fare for more edifying content, marking a significant change in the direction of her program. On April 16, 1996, during a show about mad cow disease with Howard Lyman, Oprah Winfrey stated she was stopped cold from eating another burger. This remark led to a lawsuit from Texas cattlemen in early 1998. In late 1996, Oprah Winfrey introduced the Oprah's Book Club segment on her television show. This segment highlighted new books and classics, bringing obscure novels to popular attention and creating "the Oprah Effect" on book sales. In April 1997, Oprah Winfrey played the therapist in "The Puppy Episode" on the sitcom Ellen, during which Ellen DeGeneres's character came out as a lesbian. In 1997, Oprah Winfrey played a therapist on an episode of the sitcom Ellen, in which Ellen DeGeneres's character came out of the closet. This appearance led to persistent rumors about Winfrey and her best friend Gayle King being gay. In 1997, Randolph Cook, a self-proclaimed former boyfriend, sued Oprah Winfrey for $20 million for allegedly blocking a tell-all book about their alleged relationship in 1985. In 1998, Oprah Winfrey became the first woman and first African American to top Entertainment Weekly's list of the 101 most powerful people in the entertainment industry. In 1998, Oprah Winfrey began "Change Your Life TV", solidifying her role as a spiritual leader to her large female viewership. In 1998, Oprah Winfrey began an ongoing conversation with Gary Zukav, an American spiritual teacher, who appeared on her television show 35 times. In 1998, Oprah Winfrey created Oprah's Angel Network, a charity that supported charitable projects and provided grants to nonprofit organizations around the world. In 1998, Oprah Winfrey hosted a week-long Caribbean cruise for Maya Angelou and 150 guests to celebrate Angelou's 70th birthday. In 1998, Oprah Winfrey was named America's favorite television personality according to the Harris poll. In early 1998, Texas cattlemen sued Oprah Winfrey and Howard Lyman for "false defamation of perishable food" and "business disparagement" due to Winfrey's remarks about mad cow disease, claiming that her comments sent cattle prices tumbling and cost beef producers $11 million. She was found not liable on February 26 after a two-month trial. By 2000, Oprah Winfrey's net worth reached $800 million, making her the richest African American of the 20th century. A course at the University of Illinois, "History 298: Oprah Winfrey, the Tycoon", focused on her business acumen. In 2000, Oprah Winfrey was awarded the Spingarn Medal from the NAACP, recognizing her contributions and achievements. In 2000, Oprah Winfrey was named America's favorite television personality according to the Harris poll for the second time. In 2001, Lavern Chatman, for whom Oprah Winfrey held a fundraiser in April 2014, was found liable for her role in a scheme to defraud nursing-home employees. In 2001, twelve days after the September 11 attacks, Oprah Winfrey hosted a Prayer for America service at Yankee Stadium and aired a controversial show called "Islam 101", portraying Islam as a religion of peace. At the 2002 Emmy Awards, Oprah Winfrey was the recipient of the first Bob Hope Humanitarian Award for services to television and film. From 2002 to 2006, Oprah Winfrey's Oprah After the Show program aired on the women's cable television network Oxygen. In 2002, Christianity Today published an article called "The Church of O," highlighting Oprah Winfrey's emergence as an influential spiritual leader with a large following. In 2002, George W. Bush invited Oprah Winfrey to join a US delegation to Afghanistan to celebrate the return of Afghan girls to school, but the trip was postponed when she declined to participate. In February 2003, Patricia, Oprah Winfrey's younger half-sister, died at the age of 43 due to causes related to cocaine addiction. In February 2003, a series of Oprah Winfrey's show, featuring people asking America not to go to war, was interrupted by network broadcasts of a press conference by President George W. Bush and Colin Powell summarizing the case for war. A November 2003 Gallup poll estimated that 73% of American adults had a favorable view of Oprah Winfrey. In 2003, Oprah Winfrey became the first black woman billionaire in the world, according to Forbes. From 2004 to 2006, Forbes listed Oprah Winfrey as the world's only black billionaire. From 2004 to 2011, TIME recognized Oprah Winfrey as one of the most influential people. In 2004, Oprah Winfrey and her team filmed an episode of her show, "Oprah's Christmas Kindness", in South Africa to bring attention to children affected by poverty and AIDS, distributing presents and appealing for donations to Oprah's Angel Network. In 2004, Oprah Winfrey became the first Black person to rank among the 50 most generous Americans. In 2005, Forbes named Oprah Winfrey the world's most powerful celebrity. In 2005, Oprah Winfrey was named the greatest woman in American history in a public poll as part of The Greatest American, ranking No. 9 overall. In Reading with Oprah: The Book Club that Changed America (2005), Kathleen Rooney described Oprah Winfrey as "a serious American intellectual who pioneered the use of electronic media, specifically television and the Internet, to take reading – a decidedly non-technological and highly individual act – and highlight its social elements and uses in such a way to motivate millions of erstwhile non-readers to pick up books." In August 2006, Oprah Winfrey addressed persistent rumors about her and Gayle King being gay in O, the Oprah Magazine. Winfrey stated that she understood why people thought they were gay, given the close nature of their bond, but denied the rumors. From 2002 to 2006, Oprah Winfrey's Oprah After the Show program aired on the women's cable television network Oxygen before moving to Oprah.com when Winfrey sold her stake in the network. From 2004 to 2006, Forbes listed Oprah Winfrey as the world's only black billionaire. In 2006, Oprah Winfrey became the highest-paid television entertainer in the United States, earning an estimated $260 million during the year, surpassing music executive Simon Cowell. In 2006, Oprah Winfrey recalled controversies, such as receiving hate mail for questioning whether war was the only answer, while filmmaker Michael Moore defended her for showing antiwar footage. In 2006, a genetic test revealed that Oprah Winfrey's matrilineal line originated among the Kpelle ethnic group from the area that became Liberia. In 2006, after fabrications were found in James Frey's A Million Little Pieces, Oprah Winfrey confronted him on her show over the breach of trust. In 2006, columnist Maureen Dowd stated that Oprah Winfrey is "the top alpha female in this country" and has more credibility than the president. Bill O'Reilly described her as the most powerful woman in the world, highlighting her loyal following, credibility, and talent. In the summer of 2006, to celebrate two decades on national TV, Oprah Winfrey took her staff and their families (1,065 people in total) on vacation to Hawaii. A Gallup poll in January 2007 estimated Oprah Winfrey's favorability at 74% among American adults. In January 2007, the Oprah Winfrey Leadership Academy for Girls opened in Henley on Klip, South Africa, with 150 pupils and state-of-the-art facilities. On September 8, 2007, Oprah Winfrey held a fundraiser for Barack Obama at her Santa Barbara estate, showing her support for his presidential campaign. In October 2007, a Gallup poll showed that Oprah Winfrey's favorability had dropped to 66%. On December 9, 2007, Oprah Winfrey joined Barack Obama for a rally in Columbia, South Carolina, drawing a crowd of nearly 30,000 people, the largest for any political event that year. A December 2007 Fox News poll put Oprah Winfrey's favorability at 55%. In December 2007, Oprah Winfrey joined Barack Obama for a series of rallies in the early primary states of Iowa, New Hampshire, and South Carolina to support his presidential campaign. By 2007, Oprah Winfrey was often ranked as the most influential woman in the world. In 2007, Oprah Winfrey began to endorse "The Secret", a self-help program, leading to criticism regarding its pseudoscience and potential psychological harm. In 2007, The Wall Street Journal reported that Oprah Winfrey was gaining popularity in the Arab world, with MBC 4 centering its programming around reruns of her show to attract female viewers in Saudi Arabia. In 2007, USA Today ranked Oprah Winfrey as the most influential woman and most influential black person of the previous quarter-century. Ladies' Home Journal also ranked her number one in their list of the most powerful women in America, and then Senator Barack Obama called her "the most influential woman in the country". On January 15, 2008, Oprah Winfrey and Discovery Communications announced plans to transform Discovery Health Channel into OWN: Oprah Winfrey Network. By 2008, Oprah Winfrey's yearly income had increased to $275 million. In 2008, Forbes named Oprah Winfrey the world's most powerful celebrity. In 2008, Oprah Winfrey endorsed Barack Obama, estimated to be worth one million votes. She also formed her own network, the Oprah Winfrey Network (OWN). In 2008, Oprah Winfrey endorsed Eckhart Tolle's book, "A New Earth: Awakening to Your Life's Purpose", leading to millions of extra copies sold and sparking controversy over her spiritual views. In 2008, Oprah Winfrey threw an extravagant 80th birthday celebration for Maya Angelou at Donald Trump's Mar-a-Lago club in Palm Beach, Florida. In 2008, Oprah Winfrey was named Person of the Year by PETA for using her fame to help animals and uncover cruelty in puppy mills and factory farms. In 2008, Oprah Winfrey's show was airing in 140 countries internationally and seen by an estimated 46 million people in the US weekly, showcasing its global reach. In 2008, The Hollywood Reporter named Oprah Winfrey, as chairman of Harpo Inc., the most powerful woman in entertainment. In 2008, The New York Times reported that The Oprah Winfrey Show was broadcast twice each weekday on MBC 4 with Arabic subtitles, contributing to Winfrey's popularity among women in Saudi Arabia. In 2008, economists estimated that Oprah Winfrey's endorsement of Barack Obama was worth over a million votes in the Democratic primary race, playing a crucial role in his nomination. In 2008, viewership for The Oprah Winfrey Show declined to around 7.3 million viewers, though it remained the highest-rated talk show. In 2009, Oprah Winfrey apologized to James Frey for the public confrontation that occurred after fabrications were found in his book. In 2009, Oprah Winfrey filmed a series of interviews in Denmark, highlighting its citizens as the happiest people in the world, leading to criticism from Fox News. In 2009, Oprah Winfrey was named America's favorite television personality according to the Harris poll for the seventh time. In 2009, the scheduled launch of OWN: Oprah Winfrey Network was delayed. It launched on January 1, 2011. In May 2010, with Oprah's show ending, Oprah's Angel Network charity stopped accepting donations and was shut down. In September 2010, Oprah Winfrey was voted 38th in the list of "The World's 50 Most Influential Figures 2010" by the British magazine New Statesman. In 2010, Bill O'Reilly of Fox News criticized Oprah Winfrey's shows filmed in Denmark, claiming they promoted a left-wing society. In 2010, Forbes named Oprah Winfrey the world's most powerful celebrity. In 2010, Life magazine named Oprah Winfrey one of the 100 people who changed the world, alongside figures like Jesus Christ and Elvis Presley. Winfrey was the only living woman on the list. In 2010, Oprah Winfrey discovered that she had a second half-sister, also named Patricia, who had been put up for adoption. In 2010, Oprah Winfrey remained among the top 50 most generous Americans. On January 1, 2011, OWN: Oprah Winfrey Network officially launched after being delayed from its initially scheduled launch in 2009. On May 25, 2011, the series finale of The Oprah Winfrey Show aired, marking the end of its 25-year run. From 2004 to 2011, TIME recognized Oprah Winfrey as one of the most influential people. Winfrey is the only person to have appeared in the latter list on ten occasions. In 2011, The Oprah Winfrey Show concluded its 25-year run in national syndication. As of 2012, Oprah Winfrey had given over 400 scholarships to Morehouse College in Atlanta, Georgia. By 2012, Oprah Winfrey had given away approximately $400 million to educational causes. In 2013, Forbes named Oprah Winfrey the world's most powerful celebrity. In 2013, Oprah Winfrey donated $12 million to the Smithsonian's National Museum of African American History and Culture. Later that year, President Barack Obama awarded her the Presidential Medal of Freedom. In 2013, Oprah Winfrey was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom by President Barack Obama, recognizing her contributions to society. In April 2014, Oprah Winfrey spoke at a fundraiser in Arlington, Virginia, for Lavern Chatman, a candidate for election to the U.S. House of Representatives, despite reports of Chatman's past legal liabilities. As of 2014, Oprah Winfrey had a net worth exceeding 2.9 billion dollars, surpassing former eBay CEO Meg Whitman as the richest self-made woman in America. In 2014, Forbes listed Oprah Winfrey as one of the world's 100 most powerful women, ranking her 14th. In 2016, Oprah Winfrey endorsed Hillary Clinton in the presidential election, marking her support for the Democratic candidate. In 2016, following the launch of the Super Soul Sunday and SuperSoul Sessions programs, Oprah Winfrey selected 100 people for the SuperSoul 100 list of innovators and visionaries. In January 2017, CBS announced that Oprah Winfrey would join 60 Minutes as a special contributor, enhancing her presence in news media. In September 2017, Oprah Winfrey began her role as a special contributor on 60 Minutes, marking her debut on the Sunday evening news magazine program. In a 2017 interview with Vanity Fair, Oprah Winfrey explained that she did not want to have children, stating that she wouldn't have been a good mom for babies due to a lack of patience. In 2018, Oprah Winfrey canvassed for Stacey Abrams in the Georgia gubernatorial election and donated $500,000 to the March for Our Lives student demonstration advocating for gun control. In 2018, Oprah Winfrey denied any plans to run for president, stating it was "not a clean business" and would be too difficult. In 2018, Vernita Lee, Oprah Winfrey's mother, passed away. In 2018, the National Museum of African American History and Culture opened a special exhibit on Oprah Winfrey's cultural influence through television, recognizing her impact. In early 2018, Oprah Winfrey met with Mohammad bin Salman, the crown prince and de facto ruler of Saudi Arabia, during his visit to the United States. On March 21, 2020, Oprah Talks COVID-19 debuted during the COVID-19 pandemic, providing a platform for discussing relevant issues. On July 30, 2020, The Oprah Conversation premiered, with Oprah Winfrey exploring impactful and relevant topics with thought leaders. In 2020, there were calls for Oprah Winfrey to denounce medical statements made by her former protégé, Dr. Oz, particularly regarding coronavirus and his promotion of a poorly vetted drug as a cure. In the lead-up to the 2020 election, there was media speculation about Oprah Winfrey potentially running for president, but she ultimately denied any plans to do so, although she did campaign for Joe Biden during the general election. In 2021, Oprah Winfrey was elected as a member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, acknowledging her contributions to various fields. In 2022, Oprah Winfrey endorsed Democrat John Fetterman in the Pennsylvania Senate election and Baltimore author Wes Moore in the Maryland gubernatorial election, co-hosting a virtual fundraiser for Moore in June. In 2022, Oprah Winfrey set up OWN Your Vote, a nonpartisan group focused on voter registration and a get-out-the-vote campaign, especially aimed at providing Black women with tools and resources to vote. In 2022, Vernon Winfrey, Oprah Winfrey's father, passed away. On January 18, 2023, Oprah Winfrey attended and spoke at Wes Moore's gubernatorial inauguration in Maryland, solidifying her support for the newly elected governor. In 2023, Forbes listed Oprah Winfrey as one of the world's 100 most powerful women, ranking her 31st. On August 21, 2024, Oprah Winfrey endorsed Kamala Harris in the 2024 United States presidential election at the 2024 Democratic National Convention, demonstrating her continued involvement in political endorsements. Bill Gates an American businessman and philanthropist revolutionized personal computing... Donald John Trump is an American politician media personality and... John Fetterman is an American politician currently serving as a... Home Box Office HBO is an American pay television service... Barack Obama the th U S President - was the... Fox News Channel FNC is a conservative American news and... 38 minutes ago Kristi Noem faces affair allegations as questions arise about Corey Lewandowski relationship. 38 minutes ago Broadcom Earnings Anticipated Amid Tech Stock Breakout Predictions and Growth Stock Hopes. 39 minutes ago Antoine Semenyo's impact: A key January addition boosting Man City's title pursuit. 2 hours ago HBO's Lanterns Trailer: John Stewart's Training, Hal Jordan's Suit, and Kyle Chandler 2 hours ago Aaron Rodgers' Potential NFL Free Agency Destinations: Steelers Update and Team Fits. 2 hours ago Reid Hoffman's connection to Jeffrey Epstein and Silicon Valley scrutinized in news reports. Ken Paxton is an American politician and lawyer serving as... Hillary Diane Rodham Clinton is a prominent American politician lawyer... Jesse Jackson is an American civil rights activist politician and... Jim Carrey is a Canadian-American actor and comedian celebrated for... Bill Clinton served as the nd U S President from... XXXTentacion born Jahseh Dwayne Ricardo Onfroy was a controversial yet...


--- [Oprah Winfrey] ---
Oprah Gail Winfrey (; born  Orpah Gail Winfrey; January 29, 1954) is an American talk show host, television producer, actress, author, and media proprietor. She is best known for her talk show, The Oprah Winfrey Show, broadcast from Chicago, which ran in national syndication for 25 years, from 1986 to 2011. Globally, she is the richest Black woman and the wealthiest female celebrity. Dubbed the "Queen of All Media", she was the richest African-American of the 20th century and was once the world's only Black billionaire. By 2007, she was often ranked as the most influential woman in the world.
Winfrey was born into poverty in rural Mississippi to a single teenage mother and later raised in inner-city Milwaukee. Winfrey was then sent to live with the man she calls her father, Vernon Winfrey, a barber in Nashville, Tennessee, and landed a job in radio while still in high school. By 19, she was a co-anchor for the local evening news. Winfrey's often emotional, extemporaneous delivery eventually led to her transfer to the daytime talk show arena, and after boosting a third-rated local Chicago talk show to first place, she launched her own production company.
Credited with creating a more intimate, confessional form of media communication, Winfrey popularized and revolutionized the tabloid talk show genre pioneered by Phil Donahue. By the mid-1990s, Winfrey had reinvented her show with a focus on literature, self-improvement, mindfulness, and spirituality. She has been criticized for unleashing a confession culture, promoting controversial self-help ideas, and having an emotion-centered approach, and has also been praised for overcoming adversity to become a benefactor to others. Winfrey also emerged as a political force in the 2008 presidential race, with her endorsement of Barack Obama estimated to have been worth about one million votes during the 2008 Democratic primaries.  In the same year, she formed her own network, the Oprah Winfrey Network (OWN). In 2013, Winfrey was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom by President Barack Obama.
In 1994, Winfrey was inducted into the National Women's Hall of Fame. She has received honorary doctorate degrees from multiple universities. Winfrey has won many awards throughout her career, including 19 Daytime Emmy Awards (including the Lifetime Achievement Award and the Chairman's Award), 3 Primetime Emmy Awards (including the Bob Hope Humanitarian Award), a Tony Award, a Peabody Award, and the Jean Hersholt Humanitarian Award awarded by the Academy Awards, in addition to two competitive Academy Award nominations. Winfrey was elected as a member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 2021.




--- [Oprah Winfrey suicidal over married lover, radio DJ Tim Watts ...] ---
Oprah's early heartbreak revealed: Lover she hoped to marry 'already had a wife and children and she thought about suicide after revelation' Oprah Winfrey tried to kill herself in 1981 when she discovered the man she was in love with was married with children, according to reports. The chat show queen was so distraught that she could not be with radio DJ Tim Watts that she drove her car into a tree in an apparent suicide bid. She even wrote a 'suicide note' to best friend Gayle King, who put her on a 24/7 watch after she survived the smash. Young love: Oprah dated radio DJ Tim Watts in the early 80s, and was reportedly distraught when she learned in 1981 that Watts, who she allegedly hoped to marry, already had a wife and children In his first comments on their relationship, Watts told the National Enquirer that he and Oprah were 'both young and at an age when people do stupid things they might regret later'. But he insisted that they were now good friends and that they had both put their past behind them. The Enquirer reported that Watts, now 59, met Oprah, now 57, in 1981 when she was a production assistant at WJZ-TV in Baltimore. He was the man she would have 'married in a heartbeat' - until the night she followed him home and discovered he was already married with children. A source told the Enquirer: 'She was so upset she smashed her car into a tree.' 'Proud papa': Watts, with his daughter in a recent photo he lovingly captioned from his Facebook page, insisted he and Winfrey are still good friends and have put the past behind them Oprah, seen left in the late 80s, was so upset after the breakup that she wrote a note to long time best friend Gayle King, seen her with Winfrey in 2004, who supposedly put her on watch after the scare After a period of reflection, however, Oprah decided not to kill herself but did keep the love letters that Watts sent her. She also used the episode to better understand why she allowed men to walk all over her. Oprah moved on and has been in a relationship with Steadman Graham for 25 years Watts, who is still a radio DJ for a station in Baltimore, said: 'Friends are hard to come by so I'll hold onto the few I have. 'What happened between me and Oprah took place a long time ago and we have both learned from it. 'I have no hard feelings towards her and she has none towards me. 'We were both young and at an age when people do stupid things they might regret later. We both moved on and are at good place in our lives.' Watts however refused to talk about claims by the Enquirer or Oprah biographer Kitty Kelly that he was paid $50,000 never to talk about their relationship and how they apparently 'played house' as husband and wife. According to reports the money could also have been to keep Watts quiet about Oprah's half-brother Jeffrey, who died from AIDS. A source said: 'Tim feels horrible about the way he treated Oprah but he's asked for forgiveness. 'Oprah believes in forgiving people, so she did. They've been able to start their relationship over, remembering the good times, not the bad.' The story about Watts is the latest in a series of upheavals for Oprah. Since finishing the 25-year run of her Oprah Winfrey show she has relocated from Chicago to California to help bolster her ailing OWN network. Watts, who allegedly accept a cash payout of $50,000 to keep his mouth shut about Oprah's gay brother when an expose was being written, shows off photos of himself with other celebs, like this one he posted of himself with Bill Cosby, on his Facebook page After its blockbuster launch in January which saw one million people tune in, ratings for OWN have tumbled and now average about 300,000 in prime time and 150,000 in the day. Watts' revelations is the latest in a string of problems for the billionaire, seen her with her friend Ralph Lauren when she interviewed him last week at Lincoln Center She also recently discovered she had a half sister she did not know about for more than half a century. Patricia Winfrey was given up for adoption by her mother Vernita Lee shortly after her birth in 1963. But Oprah was unaware of her existence until she was informed in November and the news 'shocked her to the core'. Born in Kosciusko, Mississippi, in 1954, Winfrey claimed she was so poor she never had any new clothes or toys and adopted two cockroaches as pets. She claims she was raped and abused by unidentified family friends as a child and at the age of 14 gave birth to a son who died a week later. Having spent more than two decades on TV, however, she is now one of the most successful women in the world with a fortune estimated at $2.7billion. After her relationship with Watts she met marketing executive and motivational speaker Stedman Graham in 1986. The pair have been together ever since and whilst they did once get engaged, they have never married. Most watched News videos - Migrant brazenly sprays £20 notes in taxpayer-paid hotel room - Caught on Dasher-cam! Bizarre moment REINDEER blocks Suffolk road - French Iranian knifeman's chilling video disguised in a mask - Jealous builder smashes Transit van into former lover's car - Senior Hamas Official says war of liberation 'is coming soon' - Viral nativity boy put to the task on This Morning ahead of play - Moment Russian soldiers execute surrendering Ukrainian troops - Moment John Kerry is accused of having wind during speech at COP28 - Fedex plane nearly crashes into a Southwest Airlines plane in Texas - Hero mother is killed saving her five-year-old daughter from a shark - Woman carried back on to Mexican beach after being 'bitten by shark' - US: Hamas won't release women to avoid revealing captivity details


--- [Oprah and Gayle King's Friendship Timeline] ---
We may be a little biased here at Oprah Daily, but Oprah and Gayle are our absolute favorite celebrity best friends. The pair’s close-knit relationship is legendary, with fans often dubbing their own besties the “Gayle to their Oprah” and vice versa. The women themselves even marvel at their story. While Oprah grew up impoverished, often moving between her parents’ homes in Nashville and Milwaukee, Gayle spent part of her childhood in Turkey, where she had a housekeeper and a swimming pool. But despite their vastly different upbringings, the women found one another and never looked back. “Something about this relationship feels otherworldly to me, like it was designed by a power and a hand greater than my own,” Oprah said in the August 2006 issue of O, The Oprah Magazine. “Whatever this friendship is, it’s been a very fun ride—and we’ve taken it together.” To celebrate these forever friends, we’ve put together a timeline of some of Gayle and Oprah’s standout moments—from their initial meeting in the 1970s to more recent updates, like when Gayle shared the sweet story of her diamond necklace from Oprah on Watch What Happens Live in December 2022. 1976: Oprah and Gayle first meet as young journalists. They were twenty-somethings in the early days of their careers, both employed at Baltimore's WJZ station. Oprah, now 68, was an anchor for the 6 o’clock news, and Gayle, now 67, was a production assistant. Despite working in different departments, both were around the same age and single young Black women. The two struck up an immediate bond. In the August 2006 issue of O, The Oprah Magazine, the two recounted their friendship origin story. Lady O invited Gayle to stay with her for the night after Gayle couldn’t make it home during a snowstorm. And as they say, the rest is history. “We became friends that first night because for the first time, I met somebody who I felt was like me,” Gayle said. “I’d never met anybody like that. Certainly not another Black girl. I grew up in an all-white community.” The two explained that both of them could relate to the fact that even their musical tastes put them at odds with peers. Gayle loved Barry Manilow, and Oprah was a fan of Neil Diamond. “It’s that whole being-the-odd-girl-out thing—we didn’t fit in to everybody else’s perception of what it’s like to be a Black girl,” Oprah said. Gayle added: “But we still had a very strong sense of being Black and were very proud of being Black. So to meet another Black girl like that was, wow!” 1986: Gayle makes her first appearance on The Oprah Winfrey Show. During the debut season of the iconic The Oprah Winfrey Show, Gayle made her first of many guest cameos over the years. Apparently, the episode’s topic was about celebrities and their best friends (fitting, huh?), and the duo spent the show entertaining each other by “recounting stories about ill-fitting dresses and disastrous hairdos.” 1994: Gayle surprises Oprah for her 40th birthday. In one of our favorite moments from The Oprah Winfrey Show archives, Gayle pulled off the ultimate surprise by unexpectedly popping in on Oprah in the middle of an episode. For an on-air party for her milestone birthday, celebrity guests like Gladys Knight, Phylicia Rashad, Aretha Franklin, and Patti LaBelle were all in attendance, talking about how they lived their best lives in their 40s. But just as Knight was providing some wisdom, a clearly shocked Oprah interrupted to make a special announcement: “Gayle is here!” she exclaimed. The two embraced, and through tears, she explained why exactly her bestie’s appearance was so welcome. “This is so touching to me, because Patti was here and Aretha came, and then everyone was coming, I thought, Gee, I wish Gayle could be here to see this,” she said. Gayle was equally grateful to be in attendance, offering the most humble response. “I have no song to sing,” she said. “I have no words of wisdom. I just wanted to be here with you today.” The. Best. 2004: Gayle and Oprah throw it back to colonial times on The Oprah Winfrey Show. For the ultimate exercise in stepping out of their comfort zones, the duo visited a family in Maine for the PBS series Colonial House, where people live like it’s 1628. (Yes, voluntarily). It would become one of the show’s most unforgettable segments. With no technology, running water, or electricity, Oprah and Gayle set out to spend a weekend as the colonials did—traditional garb and all. The two made a valiant attempt to survive the experience, participating in a bonfire dance in lieu of more modern entertainment. Oprah even recalled Gayle’s hilarious moves, bursting into laughter as she told the story. “Her partner threw her down, and she falls to the ground,” Oprah said through giggles. “She forgets to make the turn—flung her a little too far there, fella.” Later on, the friends bonded with their host family as the group all worked together to cook dinner and bake a cake. It was an experience Oprah called “one of the most special meals” she’d ever had, as it reminded her of her childhood. However, it wasn’t quite enough to convince them to live the colonial life. “The whole idea of this experience was that we were going to spend the weekend with all of these lovely people,” Oprah said. “After Gayle got thrown down in the square-dancing episode the night before—the guy went do-si-do, and she went down—we decided to leave a little early.” Well, at least they tried. 2006: Our resident besties set out on a grand cross-country road trip. In a fan-favorite Oprah Winfrey Show episode, Oprah and Gayle escaped on the ultimate road trip. Dubbed “See the U.S.A. in a Chevrolet,” the two set out on an 11-day, 3,600-mile adventure from Santa Barbara to New York City. In one exceptional clip from day two, they had been driving for hours in Arizona, and the close quarters were getting to them. “All you had to do today was listen to my singing, which should have been very pleasurable,” Gayle said as Oprah complained about the trip. “That’s why I’m so damn cranky,” Oprah countered. That’s when the CBS This Morning host shot back with a little sass. “I’ve been driving for six hours. All she’s had to do was sit here and relax, and she’s bitching.” See? Even Oprah and Gayle have fights. The mood lightened considerably hours later when the two women found themselves rooms at a motel with 55-year-old teepees. During the trip they also played bingo, met some cowboys, and even crashed a wedding. To sum it all up in one word: epic. 2018: Oprah and Gayle support each other at career-defining moments. Both media legends in their own right—Oprah is a billionaire business mogul, and Gayle is an Emmy-winning journalist and member of the Broadcasting and Cable Hall of Fame—each of these BFFs had a banner year in 2018. First up was Lady O in January. With words heard around the world, she accepted her Cecile B. DeMille Award at the Golden Globes with a roaring speech that sparked #Oprah2020 presidential race rumors. Along with Oprah’s partner, Stedman, Gayle was also Oprah’s date that night. Oprah even took to Instagram to show us a glimpse of their glam session, in which she poked fun at her friend’s lack of moisturizer. “Get your elbows,” she told Gayle. “Hey, a little Ash Wednesday on the elbows, there.” In June, for a segment on CBS This Morning, Gayle joined Oprah for a first peek at Lady O’s new exhibit at the National Museum of African American History and Culture, which showcased Oprah’s monumental life and career. And four months later, the tables were turned when Gayle took the spotlight as she was officially inducted into the Broadcasting & Cable (B&C) Hall of Fame. Oprah presented her friend the award at the ceremony with a heartfelt toast. “She deserves to be celebrated, not just for her news acumen, but for being her consistently joyful, vibrant, best-outlook-on-life, best-outlook-on-everybody self,” Oprah said. “We are here tonight to celebrate you for continuing to build a legacy in the space of nice. We are here to honor your curiosity, we are here to honor your inquisitive interest in all of humankind. We’re here to honor your desire to know the truth.” January 2019: The OG Chronicles is born. In a move that was long overdue for the dynamic duo, a joint video series was officially launched, called The OG Chronicles, starring Oprah and Gayle. (See what we did there?) For the show, the two share the small screen as they dish out advice for their fans. As they comment on love lives and friendships, we’re also treated to some super-fun personal stories from the BFFs. In the first episode, we learned that Gayle once donned Saran wrap and a trench coat to spice up a relationship, while Oprah cooks soul food to keep it romantic with Stedman. “I made some cornbread yesterday, and you would have thought I stripped myself butt naked,” she revealed. One thing that’s obvious? We’ll never get tired of these women and their long-lasting friendship. It’s clear that they have a bond like nothing else, and it’s beautiful to see. So what’s their secret? “When we first met, Gayle was always very happy with her life,” Oprah said. “And, therefore, happiest for my life... You cannot have a friend that’s unhappy with their life be happy with your life. You’ve gotta have happiness to give happiness to other people.” March 2019: Oprah praises Gayle for her contentious R. Kelly interview. Following Lifetime’s explosive Surviving R. Kelly documentary, the disgraced artist sat down with Gayle in his first interview since he was arrested in Chicago on 10 counts of aggravated criminal sexual abuse. The explosive segment garnered Gayle widespread praise as she kept her cool while Kelly proceeded to lose his. And one person who was in her corner during her glowing show of professionalism? Her bestie, Oprah, of course. “Bravo @GayleKing for calm and steady focus during #RKelly interview. Outstanding job! Tell @CBSThis Morning we want to see the whole thing,” Winfrey tweeted. April 2019: Oprah recognizes Gayle’s big Time magazine honor. Just over a month later, Gayle’s hard work was put on display again when she was named one Time’s 100 Most Influential People of 2019. “It feels surreal & WONDERFUL to not only be included #time100 list but to make one of the covers,” the honoree wrote on Instagram. “Wow! thank YOU @ava for a tribute that moved me tears .. to @cbsthismorning team who cheers me on ..to @eneida821 & @laz2020 who killed it on hair & make up, & photographer @paridukovic who said he had the perfect photo. Thinkin’ I’ll get extra copies of @ @TIME this week .. thanx time editors!!!” And it should come as no surprise that Lady O was right there to support her again—just as they have always done in the past 45 years. “So proud of you @GayleKing! And you @ava for capturing the spirit of her in your words. #Time100.” So simple, but oh-so-sweet. March 2020: Oprah interviews Gayle for the first time. In Denver, during the last leg of Oprah’s WW 2020 Vision Tour, Gayle was interviewed by Oprah for the first time ever in their decades-long friendship. The two covered a lot of ground during their conversation, including the story of how they first met (which we detail above), Gayle’s divorce, and internet trolls. But they ended on a sentimental note about their friendship. “The secret to me is trust. I trust you totally, even if I disagree with you, I still trust you,” Gayle said. “I have this joke with Oprah where people say, I found my best friend with my husband...I say to Oprah, ‘If you ever walked in and caught me with Stedman, you should not be mad, you should take me to the mental institution. Don’t be mad, I need help!’ But I mean, we’re honest with each other and trust each other and actually are very like-minded.” June 2020: Oprah and Gayle reunite after quarantining separately. After months of living on opposite coasts—Gayle in New York and Oprah in California—Gayle joined Oprah at her Santa Barbara home for a socially distanced lunch. In the days following, Oprah proved to be an excellent host, delivering ice cream to Gayle’s doorstep, who was staying in her guest house. But after quarantining for 13 days, Oprah and Gayle finally reunited with a hug after the latter tested negative for Covid-19. September 2021: Gayle becomes a grandmother—and Oprah becomes a grand-godparent. Gayle’s daughter, Kirby Bumpus, and Kirby’s husband, Virgil Miller, welcomed their first child, Luca Lynn Miller, in 2021. Gayle announced the arrival on CBS Mornings, saying, “I’ve wanted to be a grandmother for a long time, and it’s really something when you see your own child become a parent.” Gayle also later revealed her special nickname for Luca on The Late Show with Stephen Colbert. “I have a little song,” Gayle said, clearing her throat. “Luca-uke-lele, what a pretty baby!” Since Oprah is such an important part of Gayle’s life, it’s only natural that she has a role in Kirby and Luca’s lives, too. During Christmas 2021, Oprah finally met the newest addition to the family. “That is a beautiful baby,” she told her goddaughter, Kirby. April 2022: People magazine honors Gayle and Oprah’s decades-long friendship. Nearly 50 years after they first met, the dynamic duo’s friendship was celebrated in People’s Beautiful Issue 2022. Along with pairs like Octavia Spencer and Allison Janney, Sarah Paulson and Amanda Peet, and Mandy Moore and Minka Kelly, Oprah and Gayle got glammed up for shoot with a photographer they know and love, Joe Pugliese, who also captured Kirby’s wedding. This was only the second time Oprah and Gayle had done a professional shoot together—the first was for the cover of O, The Oprah Magazine, in September 2019. At the People photo shoot, the pair joked around while working with a movement coordinator, Steven Galloway. Gayle even suggested Oprah should slide down into the splits—but they opted for some classic power poses instead. Check out all the behind-the-scenes moments here. December 2022: Gayle reveals the sweetest gift Oprah has ever given her. During an appearance on Watch What Happens Live, Gayle explained the story behind the heart-shaped diamond necklace she wears almost all the time. Turns out, the charm came from a pair of earrings Oprah had. “One day your heart will sing, from your heart to mine,” Oprah told Gayle when she gave her the gift. It was even more significant because Gayle was going through a particularly difficult time—she was on the heels of her divorce—and Oprah’s support meant the world. March 2024: Gayle celebrates their friendship in interview with Newsweek. Oprah Daily’s editor at large recently sat down with Newsweek to chat about CBS Mornings, King Charles, and more. While most of the interview focused on Gayle’s prolific career in journalism, her and Oprah’s friendship is so iconic that it’d be hard not to bring it up—and the interviewer even noted that Gayle “must get asked about her all the time.” He clarified, “Do you, and is there something you’re sick of being asked about?” Gayle replied, “I never get sick of being asked about Oprah because I so love that she is loved the way she is. I so love that she is embraced the way she is. And it only makes me proud.” She continued, “I feel about Oprah the way I feel about [my] favorite son, Will, and [my] favorite daughter, Kirby, that I can’t wait for people to meet them because they never disappoint me. So anytime someone gets to meet her or wants to ask me something about her, I don’t have the hang-up, Oh, God, I wish they’d stop asking me about Oprah. Because I don’t. You would only feel that way if—and I’ve said this before—I don’t see myself in her shadow. I see myself in her light. So anytime somebody says something about her to me, I am never offended by that ever.” McKenzie Jean-Philippe is the editorial assistant at OprahMag.com covering pop culture, TV, movies, celebrity, and lifestyle. She loves a great Oprah viral moment and all things Netflix—but come summertime, Big Brother has her heart. On a day off you'll find her curled up with a new juicy romance novel.


--- [Oprah Winfrey - PureHistory] ---
Oprah Winfrey Monica & Oprah 1986 Winfrey at her 50th birthday party at Hotel Bel-Air, Los Angeles, in 2004 Oprah Gail Winfrey (born January 29, 1954) is an American media proprietor,talk show host, actress, producer, and philanthropist. Winfrey is best known for her multi-award-winning talk show The Oprah Winfrey Show which was the highest-rated program of its kind in history and was nationally syndicated from 1986 to 2011. She has been ranked the richest African-American of the 20th century, the greatest black philanthropist in American history, and was for a time the world’s only black billionaire. She is also, according to some assessments, the most influential woman in the world. Winfrey was born into poverty in rural Mississippi to a teenage single mother and later raised in an inner-city Milwaukee neighborhood. She experienced considerable hardship during her childhood, saying she was raped at age nine and became pregnant at 14; her son died in infancy. Sent to live with the man she calls her father, a barber in Tennessee, Winfrey landed a job in radio while still in high school and began co-anchoring the local evening news at the age of 19. Her emotional ad-lib delivery eventually got her transferred to the daytime-talk-show arena, and after boosting a third-rated local Chicago talk show to first place, she launched her own production company and became internationally syndicated. Credited with creating a more intimate confessional form of media communication, she is thought to have popularized and revolutionized the tabloid talk show genre pioneered by Phil Donahue, which a Yale study says broke 20th-century taboos and allowed LGBT people to enter the mainstream. By the mid-1990s, she had reinvented her show with a focus on literature, self-improvement, and spirituality. Though criticized for unleashing confession culture, promoting controversial self-help ideas, and an emotion-centered approach she is often praised for overcoming adversity to become a benefactor to others. From 2006 to 2008, her support of Barack Obama, by one estimate, delivered over a million votes in the close 2008 Democratic primary race. Early life Winfrey was named “Orpah” after the biblical character in the Book of Ruth on her birth certificate, but people mispronounced it regularly and Oprah stuck. Winfrey was born in Kosciusko, Mississippi, to an unmarried teenage mother. She later said that her conception was due to a single sexual encounter and the couple broke up not long after. Her mother, Vernita Lee (born c. 1935), was a housemaid. Winfrey had believed that her biological father was Vernon Winfrey (born 1933), a coal miner turned barber turned city councilman who had been in the Armed Forces when she was born. Decades later, Mississippi farmer and World War II veteran Noah Robinson, Sr. (born c. 1925) claimed to be her biological father. A genetic test in 2006 determined that her maternal line originated among the Kpelle ethnic group, in the area that today is Liberia. Her genetic makeup was determined to be 89% Sub-Saharan African, 8% Native American, and 3% East Asian; however, the East Asian may, given the imprecisions of genetic testing, actually be Native American markers. After Winfrey’s birth, her mother traveled north and Winfrey spent her first six years living in rural poverty with her grandmother, Hattie Mae Lee (April 15, 1900 – February 27, 1963), who was so poor that Winfrey often wore dresses made of potato sacks, for which the local children made fun of her. Her grandmother taught her to read before the age of three and took her to the local church, where she was nicknamed “The Preacher” for her ability to recite Bible verses. When Winfrey was a child, her grandmother would hit her with a stick when she did not do chores or if she misbehaved in any way. At age six, Winfrey moved to an inner-city neighborhood in Milwaukee, Wisconsin with her mother Vernita Lee, who was less supportive and encouraging than her grandmother had been, largely as a result of the long hours she worked as a maid. Around this time, Lee had given birth to another daughter, Winfrey’s younger half-sister, Patricia who later (in February 2003, at age 43) died of causes related to cocaine addiction. By 1962, Lee was having difficulty raising both daughters so Winfrey was temporarily sent to live with Vernon in Nashville, Tennessee. While Winfrey was in Nashville, Lee gave birth to a third daughter who was put up for adoption (in the hope of easing the financial straits that had led to Lee’s being on welfare) and later also named Patricia. Winfrey did not learn she had a second half-sister until 2010. By the time Winfrey moved back in with Lee, Lee had also given birth to a boy named Jeffrey, Winfrey’s half-brother, who died of AIDS-related causes in 1989. Winfrey has stated she was molested by her cousin, uncle, and a family friend, starting when she was nine years old, something she first announced to her viewers on a 1986 episode of her TV show regarding sexual abuse. When Winfrey discussed the alleged abuse with family members at age 24, they refused to accept what she said. Winfrey once commented that she had chosen not to be a mother because she had not been mothered well. At 13, after suffering years of abuse, Winfrey ran away from home. When she was 14, she became pregnant but her son died shortly after birth. She later stated she felt betrayed by the family member who had sold the story to the National Enquirer in 1990. She began going to Lincoln High School; but after early success in the Upward Bound program, was transferred to the affluent suburban Nicolet High School, where she says her poverty was constantly rubbed in her face as she rode the bus to school with fellow African-Americans, some of whom were servants of her classmates’ families. She began to steal money from her mother in an effort to keep up with her free-spending peers, to lie to and argue with her mother, and to go out with older boys. Her frustrated mother once again sent her to live with Vernon in Nashville, Tennessee, though this time she did not take her back. Vernon was strict, but encouraging, and made her education a priority. Winfrey became an honors student, was voted Most Popular Girl, and joined her high school speech team at East Nashville High School, placing second in the nation in dramatic interpretation. She won an oratory contest, which secured her a full scholarship to Tennessee State University, a historically black institution, where she studied communication. Her first job as a teenager was working at a local grocery store. At age 17, Winfrey won the Miss Black Tennessee beauty pageant. She also attracted the attention of the local black radio station, WVOL, which hired her to do the news part-time. She worked there during her senior year of high school, and again while in her first two years of college. Winfrey’s career choice in media would not have surprised her grandmother, who once said that ever since Winfrey could talk, she was on stage. As a child, she played games interviewing her corncob doll and the crows on the fence of her family’s property. Winfrey later acknowledged her grandmother’s influence, saying it was Hattie Mae who had encouraged her to speak in public and “gave me a positive sense of myself.” Working in local media, she was both the youngest news anchor and the first black female news anchor at Nashville‘s WLAC-TV. She moved to Baltimore‘s WJZ-TV in 1976 to co-anchor the six o’clock news. She was then recruited to join Richard Sher as co-host of WJZ’s local talk show People Are Talking, which premiered on August 14, 1978. She also hosted the local version of Dialing for Dollars there as well. Television – The Oprah Winfrey Show Winfrey on the first national broadcast ofThe Oprah Winfrey Show in 1986 In 1983, Winfrey relocated to Chicago to host WLS-TV‘s low-rated half-hour morning talk show, AM Chicago. The first episode aired on January 2, 1984. Within months after Winfrey took over, the show went from last place in the ratings to overtaking Donahue as the highest rated talk show in Chicago. The movie critic Roger Ebert persuaded her to sign a syndication deal with King World. Ebert predicted that she would generate 40 times as much revenue as his television show, At the Movies. It was renamed The Oprah Winfrey Show, expanded to a full hour, and broadcast nationally beginning September 8, 1986. Winfrey’s syndicated show brought in double Donahue’s national audience, displacing Donahue as the number-one daytime talk show in America. Their much publicized contest was the subject of enormous scrutiny. TV columnist Howard Rosenberg said, “She’s a roundhouse, a full course meal, big, brassy, loud, aggressive, hyper, laughable, lovable, soulful, tender, low-down, earthy and hungry. And she may know the way to Phil Donahue’s jugular.” Newsday‘s Les Payne observed, “Oprah Winfrey is sharper than Donahue, wittier, more genuine, and far better attuned to her audience, if not the world” and Martha Bayles of The Wall Street Journal wrote, “It’s a relief to see a gab-monger with a fond but realistic assessment of her own cultural and religious roots.” In the early years of The Oprah Winfrey Show, the program was classified as a tabloid talk show. In the mid-1990s, Winfrey adopted a less tabloid-oriented format, hosting shows on broader topics such as heart disease, geopolitics, spirituality and meditation, interviewing celebrities on social issues they were directly involved with, such as cancer, charity work, or substance abuse, and hosting televised giveaways including shows where every audience member received a new car (donated by General Motors) or a trip to Australia (donated by Australian tourism bodies). In addition to her talk show, Winfrey also produced and co-starred in the 1989 drama miniseries The Women of Brewster Place, as well as a short-lived spin-off, Brewster Place. As well as hosting and appearing on television shows, Winfrey co-founded the women’s cable television network Oxygen. She is also the president of Harpo Productions (Oprah spelled backwards). On January 15, 2008, Winfrey and Discovery Communications announced plans to change Discovery Health Channel into a new channel called OWN: Oprah Winfrey Network. It was scheduled to launch in 2009, but was delayed, and actually launched on January 1, 2011. The series finale of The Oprah Winfrey Show aired on May 25, 2011. Celebrity interviews In 1993, Winfrey hosted a rare prime-time interview with Michael Jackson, which became the fourth most watched event in American television history as well as the most watched interview ever, with an audience of 36.5 million. On December 1, 2005, Winfrey appeared on the Late Show with David Letterman to promote the new Broadway musical The Color Purple, of which she was a producer, joining the host for the first time in 16 years. The episode was hailed by some as the “television event of the decade” and helped Letterman attract his largest audience in more than 11 years: 13.45 million viewers. Although a much-rumored feud was said to have been the cause of the rift, both Winfrey and Letterman balked at such talk. “I want you to know, it’s really over, whatever you thought was happening”, said Winfrey. On September 10, 2007, Letterman made his first appearance on The Oprah Winfrey Show, as its season premiere was filmed in New York City. In 2006, rappers Ludacris, 50 Cent and Ice Cube criticized Winfrey for what they perceived as an anti-hip hop bias. In an interview with GQ magazine, Ludacris said that Winfrey gave him a “hard time” about his lyrics, and edited comments he made during an appearance on her show with the cast of the film Crash. He also said that he wasn’t initially invited on the show with the rest of the cast. Winfrey responded by saying that she is opposed to rap lyrics that “marginalize women”, but enjoys some artists, including Kanye West, who appeared on her show. She said she spoke with Ludacris backstage after his appearance to explain her position and said she understood that his music was for entertainment purposes, but that some of his listeners might take it literally. In September 2008, Winfrey received criticism after Matt Drudge of the Drudge Report reported that Winfrey refused to have Sarah Palin on her show, allegedly because of Winfrey’s support for Barack Obama. Winfrey denied the report, maintaining that there never was a discussion regarding Palin’s appearing on her show. She said that after she made public her support for Obama, she decided that she would not let her show be used as a platform for any of the candidates. Although Obama appeared twice on her show, those appearances were prior to his declaring himself a candidate. Winfrey added that Palin would make a fantastic guest and that she would love to have her on the show after the election, which she did on November 18, 2009. In 2009, Winfrey was criticized for allowing actress Suzanne Somers to appear on her show to discuss hormone treatments that are not accepted by mainstream medicine. Critics have also suggested that Winfrey is not tough enough when questioning celebrity guests or politicians whom she appears to like. Lisa de Moraes, a media columnist for The Washington Post, stated, “Oprah doesn’t do followup questions unless you’re an author who’s embarrassed her by fabricating portions of a supposed memoir she’s plugged for her book club.” Other media – Film Winfrey as Sofia in The Color Purple. In 1985, Winfrey co-starred in Steven Spielberg‘s The Color Purple as distraught housewife, Sofia. She was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress for her performance. The film went on to become a Broadway musical which opened in late 2005, with Winfrey credited as a producer. In October 1998, Winfrey produced and starred in the film Beloved, based on Toni Morrison‘s Pulitzer Prizewinning novel of the same name. To prepare for her role as Sethe, the protagonist and former slave, Winfrey experienced a 24-hour simulation of the experience of slavery, which included being tied up and blindfolded and left alone in the woods. Despite major advertising, including two episodes of her talk show dedicated solely to the film, and moderate to good critical reviews, Beloved opened to poor box-office results, losing approximately $30 million. While promoting the movie, co-star Thandie Newton described Winfrey as “a very strong technical actress and it’s because she’s so smart. She’s acute. She’s got a mind like a razor blade.” In 2005, Harpo Productionsreleased a film adaptation of Zora Neale Hurston‘s 1937 novel Their Eyes Were Watching God. The made-for-television film was based upon a teleplay by Suzan-Lori Parks, and starred Halle Berry in the lead female role. In late 2008, Winfrey’s company Harpo Films signed an exclusive output pact to develop and produce scripted series, documentaries and movies for HBO. Oprah voiced Gussie the goose for Charlotte’s Web (2006) and the voice of Judge Bumbleden in Bee Movie (2007) co-starring the voices of Jerry Seinfeld and Renée Zellweger. In 2009, Winfrey provided the voice for the character of Eudora, the mother of Princess Tiana, in Disney’s The Princess and the Frog and in 2010, narrated the US version of the BBC nature program Life for Discovery. Publishing and writing Winfrey on the cover of Live Your Best Life, a collection of features from O, The Oprah Magazine. Winfrey has co-authored five books. At the announcement of a weight loss book in 2005, co-authored with her personal trainer Bob Greene, it was said that her undisclosed advance fee had broken the record for the world’s highest book advance fee, previously held by the autobiography of former U.S. President Bill Clinton. Winfrey publishes magazines: O, The Oprah Magazine; from 2004 to 2008, Oprah also published a magazine called O at Home. In 2002, Fortune called O, the Oprah Magazine the most successful start-up ever in the industry. Although its circulation had declined by more than 10 percent (to 2.4 million) from 2005 to 2008, the January 2009 issue was the best selling issue since 2006. The audience for her magazine is considerably more upscale than for her TV show, the average reader earning well above the median for U.S. women. Online Winfrey’s company created the Oprah.com website to provide resources and interactive content relating to her shows, magazines, book club, and public charity. Oprah.com averages more than 70 million page views and more than six million users per month, and receives approximately 20,000 e-mails each week. Winfrey initiated “Oprah’s Child Predator Watch List”, through her show and website, to help track down accused child molesters. Within the first 48 hours, two of the featured men were captured. Radio On February 9, 2006, it was announced that Winfrey had signed a three-year, $55 million contract with XM Satellite Radio to establish a new radio channel. The channel, Oprah Radio, features popular contributors to The Oprah Winfrey Show and O, The Oprah Magazine including Nate Berkus, Dr. Mehmet Oz, Bob Greene, Dr. Robin Smith and Marianne Williamson. Oprah & Friends began broadcasting at 11:00 am ET, September 25, 2006, from a new studio at Winfrey’s Chicago headquarters. The channel broadcasts 24 hours a day, seven days a week on XM Radio Channel 156. Winfrey’s contract requires her to be on the air 30 minutes a week, 39 weeks a year. The 30-minute weekly show features Winfrey with friend Gayle King. Personal life – Homes Aerial view of Oprah’s Montecito estate Winfrey currently lives on “The Promised Land”, her 42-acre (170,000 m2) estate with ocean and mountain views in Montecito, California. Winfrey also owns a house in Lavallette, New Jersey; an apartment in Chicago, an estate on Fisher Island, Florida, a house in Douglasville, Georgia; a ski house in Telluride, Colorado; and property on Maui, Hawaii and Antigua. Her base during filming of Winfrey’s show is Chicago, so she spends time in the neighborhood of Streeterville. Romantic history A self-described promiscuous teen who was a victim of sexual abuse, Winfrey gave birth at the age of 14 to a boy who died shortly after. Winfrey’s high school sweetheart Anthony Otey recalled an innocent courtship that began in Winfrey’s senior year of high school, from which he saved hundreds of love notes; Winfrey conducted herself with dignity and as a model student. The two spoke of getting married, but Otey claimed to have always secretly known that Winfrey was destined for a far greater life than he could ever provide. She broke up with him on Valentine’s Day of her senior year. In 1971, several months after breaking up with Otey, Winfrey met William “Bubba” Taylor at Tennessee State University. According to CBS journalist George Mair, Taylor was Winfrey’s “first intense, to die for love affair”. Winfrey helped get Taylor a job at WVOL, and according to Mair, “did everything to keep him, including literally begging him on her knees to stay with her.” Taylor, however, was unwilling to leave Nashville with Winfrey when she moved to Baltimore to work at WJZ-TV in June 1976. “We really did care for each other”, Winfrey would later recall. “We shared a deep love. A love I will never forget.” In the 1970s, Winfrey had a romantic relationship with John Tesh. Biographer Kitty Kelley claims that Tesh split with Winfrey over the pressure of having an interracial relationship. When WJZ-TV management criticized Winfrey for crying on the air while reporting tragedies and were unhappy with her physical appearance (especially when her hair fell out as the result of a bad perm), Winfrey turned to reporter Lloyd Kramer for comfort. “Lloyd was just the best”, Winfrey would later recall. “That man loved me even when I was bald! He was wonderful. He stuck with me through the whole demoralizing experience. That man was the most fun romance I ever had.” According to Mair, when Kramer moved to NBC in New York, Winfrey had a love affair with a married man who had no intention of leaving his wife. Winfrey would later recall: “I’d had a relationship with a man for four years. I wasn’t living with him. I’d never lived with anyone—and I thought I was worthless without him. The more he rejected me, the more I wanted him. I felt depleted, powerless. At the end I was down on the floor on my knees groveling and pleading with him.” Winfrey became so depressed that on September 8, 1981, she wrote a suicide note to best friend Gayle King instructing King to water her plants. “That suicide note had been much overplayed” Winfrey told Ms. magazine. “I couldn’t kill myself. I would be afraid the minute I did it; something really good would happen and I’d miss it.” According to Winfrey, her emotional turmoil gradually led to a weight problem: “The reason I gained so much weight in the first place and the reason I had such a sorry history of abusive relationships with men was I just needed approval so much.In all three studies, during the first year, patients receiving both https://phenterminehealth.com and placebo were on a low-calorie diet. In order to maintain the achieved result, in the second year all patients were transferred to a special diet. I needed everyone to like me, because I didn’t like myself much. So I’d end up with these cruel self-absorbed guys who’d tell me how selfish I was, and I’d say ‘Oh thank you, you’re so right’ and be grateful to them. Because I had no sense that I deserved anything else. Which is also why I gained so much weight later on. It was the perfect way of cushioning myself against the world’s disapproval.” Winfrey later confessed to smoking crack cocaine with a man she was romantically involved with during the same era. She explained on her show: “I always felt that the drug itself is not the problem but that I was addicted to the man.” She added: “I can’t think of anything I wouldn’t have done for that man.” Winfrey was allegedly involved in a second drug-related love affair. Self-proclaimed former boyfriend Randoph Cook said they lived together for several months in 1985 and did drugs. In 1997, Cook tried to sue Winfrey for $20 million for allegedly blocking a tell-all book about their alleged relationship. Also, in the mid-1980’s, Winfrey briefly dated movie critic Roger Ebert, whom she credits with advising her to take her show into syndication. In 1985, before Winfrey’s Chicago talk show had gone national, Haitian filmmaker Reginald Chevalier claims he appeared as a guest on a look-alike segment and began a relationship with Winfrey involving romantic evenings at home, candlelit baths, and dinners with Michael Jordan and Danny Glover. Chevalier says Winfrey ended the relationship when she met Stedman Graham. Winfrey and her boyfriend Stedman Graham have been together since 1986. They were engaged to be married in November 1992, but the ceremony never took place. Close friends Winfrey’s best friend since their early twenties is Gayle King. King was formerly the host of The Gayle King Show and is currently an editor of O, the Oprah Magazine. Since 1997, when Winfrey played the therapist on an episode of the sitcom Ellen in which Ellen DeGeneres came out of the closet, Winfrey and King have been the target of persistent rumors that they were gay. “I understand why people think we’re gay”, Winfrey says in the August 2006 issue of O magazine. “There isn’t a definition in our culture for this kind of bond between women. So I get why people have to label it—how can you be this close without it being sexual?” “I’ve told nearly everything there is to tell. All my stuff is out there. People think I’d be so ashamed of being gay that I wouldn’t admit it? Oh, please.” Winfrey has also had a long friendship with Maria Shriver after they met in Baltimore.Winfrey considers Maya Angelou, author of I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings, her mentor and close friend; she calls Angelou her “mother-sister-friend” Winfrey hosted a week-long Caribbean cruise for Angelou and 150 guests for Angelou’s 70th birthday in 1998, and in 2008, threw her “an extravagant 80th birthday celebration” at Donald Trump‘s Mar-A-Lago club in Palm Beach, Florida.
