=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Sher Afgan Niazi - Wikipedia]
Niazi was famous for memorizing all the articles of the Constitution of Pakistan. His health deteriorated slowly after one of his sons died in car accident in Rawalpindi, and he was diagnosed with liver cancer in 2012.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sher_Afgan_Niazi

[Sher Afgan Niazi - Bharatpedia]
↑ "Former Minister Sher Afgan Niazi passes away". newspakistan.pk. 2010-10-11. Retrieved 2012-10-11. This article about a Pakistani politician is a . You can help Wikipedia by expanding it. Categories: 2012 deaths All Pakistan Muslim League politicians Pashtun people Year of birth missing Deaths from cancer in Pakistan Deaths from liver cancer
URL: https://en.bharatpedia.org/wiki/Sher_Afgan_Niazi

[Ex-minister Sher Afgan passes away - Newspaper - DAWN.COM]
Oct 12, 2012 · A diabetic and heart patient, Dr Niazi was diagnosed with liver cancer a couple of months ago. He retired from politics in July and nominated his son Amjad Ali Khan to contest the next election.
URL: https://www.dawn.com/news/756041/ex-minister-sher-afgan-passes-away

[Dr Sher Afgan dies at 62 - The Nation]
Oct 12, 2012 · MIANWALI - Former law minister and renowned politician Dr Sher Afgan Khan Niazi passed away after a prolonged illness here on Thursday. He was 62. The veteran politician had been diagnosed with liver cancer six months ago and was under treatment at a private hospital for past three months.
URL: https://www.nation.com.pk/12-Oct-2012/dr-sher-afgan-dies-at-62

[Sher Afgan Niazi - biography and personal life]
Dr. Sher Afgan Khan Niazi Died after 4 days of remaining in Coma due to liver cancer for last 6 months, on October 11, 2012. His health deteriorated slowly after one of his elder son died in car accident in Rawalpindi. Dr.Sher Afghan was diagnosed with liver cancer in 2012. He died at age of 66.
URL: https://profilepk.com/sher-afgan-niazi


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Sher Afgan Niazi - Wikipedia] ---
Dr. Sher Afgan Khan Niazi (Urdu: شیر افگن خان نیازی; died 11 October 2012) was a Pakistani politician.  He served as Minister of Parliamentary Affairs of Pakistan.
AK Niazi or General Niazi was his real uncle.He was elected for a fourth time to National Assembly in 2002 as a member of Pakistan Peoples Party (Parliamentarians), but later shifted his loyalty to become PPPP (Patriot) and then joined the Pakistan Muslim League (Q). Sher Afgan Niazi helped President of Pakistan Pervez Musharraf to oust, detain and then replace the judges of the Supreme Court in 2007 and also supported Musharraf regime's military operation at Lal Masjid, Islamabad. On 18 February 2008, he lost the general election to an independent candidate, Humair Hayat Khan Rokhri. On April 8, 2008 he was pelted with rotten eggs and attacked in Lahore, Punjab by the lawyers protesting against his support for dismissing of Supreme Court judges and Lal Masjid operation. That attack was strongly protested for days in his home town.
Niazi joined President Pervez Musharraf's newly formed political party, the All Pakistan Muslim League (APML). However, he later resigned from the party following differences with the leadership. He was expert in constitutional affairs and had strong command over constitution of Pakistan. He completed his M.B.B.S degree from Nishtar Medical College, Multan, Punjab.
Niazi was famous for memorizing all the articles of the Constitution of Pakistan.  His health deteriorated slowly after one of his sons died in car accident in Rawalpindi, and he was diagnosed with liver cancer in 2012.




--- [Sher Afgan Niazi - Bharatpedia] ---
No content


--- [Ex-minister Sher Afgan passes away - Newspaper - DAWN.COM] ---
MIANWALI, Oct 11: Former federal minister for parliamentary affairs Dr Sher Afgan Khan Niazi passed away here on Thursday afternoon. He was 67. Dr Niazi, who was suffering from liver cancer, went into coma when his health deteriorated two days ago. He has left behind his wife, a son and two daughters. The funeral prayer will be offered in the Govt High School ground on Friday morning. Dr Niazi, whose father was a police constable, was born on Jan 1, 1946, in Mianwali. He had five brothers. A brilliant student, he got an MBBS degree from Nishter Medical College in 1968 and joined govt service, but resigned in 1974 and started private practice in Mianwali. After general elections of 1977, he started taking part in local politics. He was elected a member of the district council in 1979 and joined the Tehrik-i-Istaqlal. At that time local politics was dominated by the Nawab of Kalabagh and the Rokris.Following in the footsteps of Maulana Abdus Sattar Khan Niazi, he formed a local Awami Mahaz against political heavyweights in the district.Dr Niazi quit Tehrik-i-Istaqlal in 1985 to take part in non-party elections and along with Maqbool Ahmed Khan defeated Aamir Hayat Rokri and Nawab of Kalabagh. In 1987, he was unseated by the Supreme Court on an election petition of Mr Rokri. Then he joined Maulana Niazi and was elected to the National Assembly in 1988 on a JUP ticket, but shifted his loyalty to the PPP and became a federal minister in the Benazir Bhutto government. In 1990, he contested on two seats, but was defeated by Maulana Niazi in NA-71 and by Gul Hameed Rokri in NA-72. In 1993, he was elected an MNA as an independent candidate and joined the PPP. In 1997, he was defeated by Inamullah Niazi of the PML-N. In 2002, Dr Niazi was elected on a PPPP ticket, but joined the Musharraf regime. In 2008, he contested on a PML-Q ticket, but was defeated by Humair Rokri. He made his mark as an accomplished parliamentarian well versed in constitutional niceties. Dr Niazi, who lived a simple life, was an ‘awami’ politician and his place was open to everyone. He was shaken by the death of his son Bairam Khan in an accident a few years ago. A diabetic and heart patient, Dr Niazi was diagnosed with liver cancer a couple of months ago. He retired from politics in July and nominated his son Amjad Ali Khan to contest the next election.


--- [Dr Sher Afgan dies at 62 - The Nation] ---
MIANWALI - Former law minister and renowned politician Dr Sher Afgan Khan Niazi passed away after a prolonged illness here on Thursday. He was 62. The veteran politician had been diagnosed with liver cancer six months ago and was under treatment at a private hospital for past three months. On last Thursday, his condition deteriorated and he went into a coma. He is survived by a son and two daughters. Born on January 1, 1946, in the famous Pashtun tribe of Niazi in Mianwali district, Dr Sher Afgan, a medical practitioner by profession, did his MBBS in 1968 from Nishtar Medical College, Multan. He served as the minister of parliamentary affairs, and remained a member of the Mianwali District Council from 1979 to 1986. Famous for memorising all the articles of the Constitution, Dr Niazi also remained federal minister for law, justice and parliamentary affairs; human rights; social welfare and special education from 1993 to 1996 after being elected as MNA from 1985 to 1987, 1988 to 1990. He was elected to the National Assembly in 2002 as a member of the Pakistan People’s Party (Parliamentarians), but later shifted his loyalty to become PPPP (Patriot), and then joined the Pakistan Muslim League-Quaid. Niazi also remained part of retired general Musharraf’s All-Pakistan Muslim League (APML), but resigned over differences with the leadership later on. In 2007, Dr Niazi helped the then president, Musharraf, to oust, detain and then replace the judges of the Supreme Court. He had also supported Musharraf regime’s military operation on Lal Masjid, Islamabad. President Asif Ali Zardari, Prime Minister Raja Pervaizz Ashraf, PML-N chief Nawaz Sharif, PML-Q chief Chaudhry Shujaat Hussain, PTI chairman Imran Khan, ANP President Asfandyar Wali, JUI-F leader Mualana Fazlur Rehman and MQM chief Altaf Hussain have expressed profound grief over the demise of the renowned politician. They lauded his services for national politics, praying that may Allah Almighty rest the departed soul in eternal peace. In his condolence message, the president lauded the late politician for his role in national politics, spanning over decades. He prayed to Allah Almighty to grant courage to the bereaved family members to bear this irreparable loss with equanimity. Prime Minister Ashraf, in a message, described Dr Niazi as a seasoned politician and offered condolences to the bereaved family over the sad demise.


--- [Sher Afgan Niazi - biography and personal life] ---
X – Minister of Parliamentary Affairs Dr. Sher Afgan Khan Niazi was from the famous pashtun tribe of Niazi. He was the Minister of Parliamentary Affairs of Pakistan. He was elected fourth time to National Assembly in 2002 as a member of Pakistan People Party(Parliamentarians) but later became a turncoat and shifted his loyalty to become PPPP (Patriot) and then joined Pakistan Muslim League (Q). Sher Afgan Niazi helped President of Pakistan Pervez Musharraf to oust, detain and then replace the judges of the Supreme Court in 2007 and also supported Musharraf regime’s military operation at Lal Masjid, Islamabad that resulted in the killing of more than a thousand seminary students including girls at Jamia Hafsa. On 18th February, 2008, he lost the general election to an independent candidate, Humair Hayat Khan Rokhri. On April 8th, 2008 he was pelted with rotten eggs and attacked in Lahore, Punjab by the lawyers protesting against his support for dismissing of Supreme Court judges and Lal Masjid operation. He is also famous for memorizing all the articles of the constitution of Pakistan. Niazi joined Former President Musharraf’s newly formed political party, the All Pakistan Muslim League (APML). However, he later resigned from the party following differences with the leadership. He was expert in constitutional affairs and had strong command over constitution of Pakistan. He completed his M.B.B.S degree from Nishtar Medical College , Multan, Punjab Dr. Sher Afgan Khan Niazi Died after 4 days of remaining in Coma due to liver cancer for last 6 months, on October 11, 2012. His health deteriorated slowly after one of his elder son died in car accident in Rawalpindi. Dr.Sher Afghan was diagnosed with liver cancer in 2012. He died at age of 66. Sher Afgan Niazi Pictures | | | … | | | | | former federal ministe … | | | | | … | | | | | Sher Afgan was died of … | | | | | | | Sher Afgan Niazi Videos
