=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Neeraj Chopra sets new national record at Stockholm Diamond League 2022]
Jun 30, 2022 · India’s Olympic champion Neeraj Chopra broke the national record with an 89.94m throw to finish second in the men's javelin throw at the Stockholm Diamond League 2022.
URL: https://www.olympics.com/en/news/stockholm-diamond-league-2022-athletics-neeraj-chopra-india-javelin-results

[Neeraj Chopra]
In the 2022 Diamond League, Chopra broke his own national record with a throw of 89.94 m (295.1 ft) during his second-place effort at the BAUHAUS-galan in ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Neeraj_Chopra

[Diamond League Stockholm: Neeraj Chopra sets national record, new ...]
Jul 1, 2022 · Indian athletics Diamond League Stockholm: Neeraj rewrites national record, Duplantis vaults all-time outdoor best India’s Olympic javelin champion Neeraj threw a national record of 89.94m, that ...
URL: https://scroll.in/field/1027348/diamond-league-stockholm-neeraj-rewrites-national-record-duplantis-vaults-all-time-outdoor-best

[Neeraj Chopra breaks his own national record with 89.94m throw at ...]
Jun 30, 2022 · Neeraj Chopra returned to Diamond League action for the first time in 4 years in style as he broke his own national record for the second time in a month. Neeraj finished 2nd at the Stockholm Diamond League on Thursday, June 30 with a massive throw of 89.94m.
URL: https://www.indiatoday.in/sports/other-sports/story/neeraj-chopra-breaks-his-own-national-record-with-89-94m-throw-at-stockholm-diamond-league-finishes-2nd-1968763-2022-06-30

[Chopra and Weber join 90-metre club]
Nov 25, 2025 — Chopra and Weber join 90-metre club · India's Neeraj Chopra and Germany's Julian Weber both reached a major career milestone in a historic ...
URL: https://www.diamondleague.com/chopra-and-weber-join-90-metre-club/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Neeraj Chopra sets new national record at Stockholm Diamond League 2022] ---
Stockholm Diamond League: Neeraj Chopra breaks national record, inches closer to 90m mark Neeraj Chopra broke the national record for the second time this month to finish second in Stockholm. All his six attempts were valid, with four throws measuring over 85m. Olympic champion Neeraj Chopra broke the national record again to finish second at the Stockholm Diamond League 2022 in Sweden on Thursday. Neeraj Chopra’s first throw of 89.94m helped him better his personal best of 89.30m, set earlier this month at the Paavo Nurmi Games in Finland. The Indian javelin ace fell just six centimetres short of the elusive 90m mark. "Today, I feel good and after the first throw, I thought I could throw even over the 90m today," Neeraj Chopra said. "But it is OK as I have more competitions coming this year. I am close to 90m now and I can throw it this year. "Despite the fact that I did not win tonight, I feel very good because I did my best," the Indian added. World champion Anderson Peters of Grenada broke the 16-year-old meet record with a huge 90.31m throw in his third attempt, which was enough to get him the top finish. "I am not really in a great shape - I have suffered a back injury," Peters said. "It is still getting better but I hope to be back in a really good shape soon. "Getting the 90m throw was really good, I was very much motivated by Neeraj to get a 90m throw because he started the competition with a personal best and a national record and that was pretty good for the start," Anderson Peters pointed out. World No. 4 Julian Weber of Germany finished third with an effort of 89.08m. Jakub Vadlejch, the 2016 Diamond League champion, was fourth after Julian pipped him with his penultimate throw. After the record-breaking first throw, Neeraj Chopra logged 84.37m, 87.46m, 84.77m and 86.67m in his subsequent attempts and was one of the top three athletes who made it to the sixth attempt. However, the 24-year-old Indian ace could only come up with 86.84m in his final attempt and finished behind Anderson Peters. This was Neeraj Chopra’s eighth appearance in the Diamond League and his first top-three finish at the meet. Neeraj Chopra pocketed seven points for the second-place finish in Stockholm and moved to fourth in the qualification standings of the Diamond League. The top six athletes at the end of all qualification meetings will compete at the Diamond League Final in Zurich this September. Neeraj Chopra had made an impressive return to competitive action after Tokyo 2020 earlier this month, breaking the national record with an 89.30m throw to clinch the silver at Paavo Nurmi Games before claiming gold at the Kuortane Games with an 86.69m throw. The Stockholm Diamond League was Neeraj Chopra’s last event before the World Athletics Championships and the Commonwealth Games in July.


--- [Neeraj Chopra] ---
Lieutenant Colonel Neeraj Chopra   (born 24 December 1997) is an Indian javelin thrower. He has won gold medals at the Olympic Games, World Championships and Asian Games. Chopra has won the Diamond League once. He won the Olympic gold medal in 2020 and became the first Asian javelin thrower to do so. He became the first Asian to win a gold medal in javelin throw at the 2023 World Championships. Chopra finished in the top two in 26 consecutive tournaments from June 2021 to September 2025, the second longest such streak in history behind that of javelin world record holder Jan Železný.
Chopra is the first athletics gold medalist for India. As of 2024, he is one of only two Indians to have won an individual Olympic gold medal, the youngest-ever Indian Olympic gold medalist in an individual event and the only individual to have won gold on his Olympic debut. After his silver at the 2024 Olympics, he became one of five individual multiple Olympic medalists for India. He is the first Indian to win a gold medal at the World U20 Championships, where he set the current world U20 record throw of 86.48 m in 2016, also becoming the first Indian athlete to set a world record in athletics.




--- [Diamond League Stockholm: Neeraj Chopra sets national record, new ...] ---
While Neeraj Chopra gave India fans a lot to cheer, the star of the night in Stockholm was none other than Mondo Duplantis who warmed up for next month’s world championships in perfect style at at his home Diamond League meet on Thursday, delighting Swedish fans by setting an outdoor pole vault record. India’s Olympic javelin champion Neeraj threw a national record of 89.94m, that earned him second place behind Anderson Peters of Grenada (90.31). Neeraj Chopra’s attempts were 89.94 (NR), 84.37, 87.46, 84.77, 86.77, 86.84. His first throw was a meet record but that was quickly eclipsed by reigning world champion Peters who threw a superb 90.31. “I thought I could throw even over 90m today,” said Chopra, whose gold in Tokyo was India’s first ever Olympic track and field triumph. “I am close to 90m now and I can throw it this year. Despite the fact that I did not win tonight, I feel very good because I did my best.” Chopra’s 2nd placed finish is best ever by an Indian at the Diamond League meets. Diamond League format: Athletes are awarded 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2 or 1 points for ranking 1st to 8th respectively in their discipline. The top 6 in the field events at the end of the season will qualify for the Final (scheduled in Zurich for the first week of September). In case of a tie, the best legal performance of the qualification phase wins. While Olympic champion Marcell Jacobs was a late withdrawal from track’s blue riband event, the men’s 100m, Duplantis ensured there was drama guaranteed to the end in the field. In yet another dominant pole vaulting display in the final major meet before the July 15-24 worlds in Eugene, Oregon, Duplantis had the competition wrapped up after his third effort at 5.83m. The US-born vaulter then nailed 5.93 and 6.03m before clearing 6.16 on his second attempt, the best-ever performance outdoors that bettered by 1cm his previous outdoor best set in Rome in September 2020. “I feel like I am definitely in shape to win my title and maybe to do something special in Eugene,” said the 22-year-old Olympic champion who holds the overall world record of 6.20m, set at the world indoor championships in Belgrade in March. The outdoor record, Stockholm-based Duplantis said, felt “quite amazing... but really wasn’t that much of a surprise for me”. “There’s better things that I can do. I felt really good jumping today but it wasn’t like I did everything so perfect that I don’t think I can do any better. “It’s extra special when you’re jumping on the track where you train. I live about 10 minutes away so you want to defend your home territory first and foremost!” With little time to fine-tune preparations ahead of the Eugene worlds, Jacobs – a shock gold winner at the Tokyo Olympics last year – pulled out of the 100m in another blow to his injury-hit season. His coach Paolo Camossi, however, played down the latest setback for his sprinter, who kicked off the season with world 60m indoor gold in Belgrade before a thigh injury in mid-May disrupted track plans. “The situation is under control,” Camossi said. “He has a little pain in his glute muscle. “It would have been too risky to run today, that’s why we decided to withdraw him from the 100m. The risk is just too high with the eye on the world championships in Eugene next month.” In the absence of Jacobs, South African Akani Simbine clocked a season’s best of 10.02sec to win the 100m ahead of the fastest European this year, Britain’s Reece Prescod (10.15). - ‘Not perfect’ - World champion Dina Asher-Smith of Britain edged Switzerland’s Mujinga Kambundji, the world indoor 60m champion, in a photo-finish in the women’s 200m, both sprinters credited with 22.37sec. Femke Bol ensured that, come Eugene, there will be anything but a smooth ride for American Sydney McLaughlin, who set a new world record of 51.41sec in winning the women’s 400m hurdles at the US trials last weekend. The Dutch hurdler won in Stockholm in a Diamond League record of 52.27sec and her clash with Olympic champion McLaughlin and US teammate and reigning world champion Dalilah Muhammad will undoubtedly be one of the track highlights of the world champs. “I am still hoping to do something very special also in Eugene,” Bol said. “It was a good race today but not perfect. In the end, I am very glad for this time. “I am so excited for Eugene. When you see the results from the Hayward Field stadium, I am so excited to go there and I have some great competitors out there.” Brazil’s Alison Dos Santos bested Karsten Warholm’s meet record as he set a world lead of 46.80sec in the men’s 400m hurdles. “I am so proud about this performance. My preparations went well and this result shows it,” said the Brazilian who won bronze at the Tokyo Olympics. “I think about the world record every day, every night, the Japanese capital. (With AFP inputs)


--- [Neeraj Chopra breaks his own national record with 89.94m throw at ...] ---
Neeraj Chopra breaks his own national record with 89.94m throw at Stockholm Diamond League, finishes 2nd On his return to Diamond League action, Neeraj Chopra broke his own national record, coming up with a best throw of 89.94m to finish second behind Anderson Peters on Thursday, June 30 Neeraj Chopra returned to Diamond League action for the first time in 4 years in style as he broke his own national record for the second time in a month. Neeraj finished 2nd at the Stockholm Diamond League on Thursday, June 30 with a massive throw of 89.94m. Tokyo Olympics champion Neeraj Chopra nearly achieved his mission of throwing 90m as he hurled the javelin to his personal best distance in his first attempt in the Diamond League on Friday. What a competition in the men's javelin. A meeting record of 90.31 sees @peters_oly claim his 2nd win of the season... ...but it's an Indian record of 89.94 for runner-up @Neeraj_chopra1!#StockholmDL #DiamondLeague @matthewquine pic.twitter.com/OD5VDeKOBi — Wanda Diamond League (@Diamond_League) June 30, 2022 Neeraj Chopra finished second behind reigning world champion Anderson Peters who won the event with a best throw of 90.31m. It was a fantastic series of 6 throws for Neeraj Chopra, who finished in the top 3 in a Diamond League meet for the first time - 89.94m, 84.37m, 87.46m, 84.77m, 86.67m, and 86.84m. Neeraj began the event with a new meet record, new national record and his personal best of 89.94m. However, world champion Peters bettered the mark in his third attempt. Julian Weber of Germany finished 3rd with a best throw of 89.08m while Tokyo Olympics silver medalist Jakub Valdjejch finished 4th with a best attempt of 88.59m. Neeraj had taken part in 3 Diamond League meets in 2017 and 4 in 2018 and had finished 4th twice. The meet in the Swedish capital was his biggest event ahead of the World Championships and the Commonwealth Games in july. Neeraj has been in spectacular form ever since he returned to competitive action earlier this month. The Tokyo Olympics champion had taken his time to work on his fitness and preparations before his comeback and the star javelin thrower is peaking before the World Championships, starting July 15 in Eugene, a couple of weeks before he takes part in the Commonwealth Games in Birmingham. Neeraj returned to action, setting a new national record at the Paavo Nurmi Games, a Continental Tour event in Turku Finland on June 14 with a throw of 89.30m. With that, he broke his previous best of 88.07m from 2021. 3 days later, he finished on the top step of the podium after surviving a nasty fall at the Kuortane Games with a best throw of 86.69m in slippery conditions. Also Read | Nelson Piquet apologises for 'ill thought out' comments on Lewis Hamilton


--- [Chopra and Weber join 90-metre club] ---
It was a night that neither Neeraj Chopra nor Julian Weber will ever forget: the night they joined the 90-metre club. For anyone who is anyone in the men’s javelin, 90 metres has long been the mark by which greatness is measured. Yet when they began their 2025 Diamond League seasons in Doha last May, both India’s Chopra and Germany’s Weber were still chasing the elusive milestone. Chopra had won Olympic gold in 2021, been crowned world champion in 2023 and had become the first Indian ever to win the Diamond League title in 2022. Weber, meanwhile, was the 2022 European champion and had only narrowly missed out on a medal at both the last two World Championships and Olympic Games. Neither man, however, had managed to add the 90-metre feather to their cap. Weber’s PB stood at 89.54m, while Chopra had come even closer with 89.94m. But the blot in their copybook remained: always an eighty, never a ninety. In Doha, they both had a date with destiny. All eyes were on Chopra in particular ahead of the season opener in the javelin, with the Indian hoping for some home support in a city with plenty of Indian fans. “I’m always overwhelmed by the support I get from Indian people in Qatar,” he said. The crowd at the Qatar Sports Club is always loud, and I think that brings out the best in all of us. I know the fans expect big things from me when I compete here – and with good conditions and a great atmosphere that’s definitely possible.” Doha, after all, has traditionally been one of the most javelin-friendly Diamond League meetings. As well as Thomas Röhler’s series record of 93.90m back in 2017, the Qatari capital had also seen 90-metre throws from Jakub Vadlejch and Anderson Peters in 2022. Buoyed by that history and a passionate Indian fanbase, Chopra knew he would rarely get a better to chance to break the barrier. And he took it. In the second round, the Indian landed an enormous 90.23m, shattering his own PB and with it the Indian record. It was a moment of elation and relief for Chopra. Had it not been for what happened next, it would have been the moment of the night. With victory seemingly certain for the Indian star, Weber suddenly also started firing on all cylinders. Having crept towards the lead with 89.94m in the fifth, the German then unleashed an astonishing 91.06m with his final throw, stealing Chopra’s thunder and completing one of the greatest competitions in javelin history. “I was really happy for Neeraj because he had been fighting for that 90-metre throw for some time and it was really special to achieve it tonight,” said Weber, after inviting his rival to join him for a photo at the OMEGA board after the competition. A few months later, Weber joined Chopra in the Diamond League hall of fame, snapping up a further victory in Brussels before clearing 90 metres at the Wanda Diamond League Final in Zurich. The German’s title-winning 91.51m was the furthest throw ever at a Diamond League Final, cementing his status as one of the greatest javelin throwers in the series’ history.
