=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Giulio Carlo Argan - Wikipedia]
In 1973 he founded the Rome ISIA, Italy's oldest institution in the field of industrial design. [citation needed] He was the first Communist mayor of Rome, between 1976 and 1979. He waselectedaForeignHonoraryMemberoftheAmericanAcademyofArts and Sciences in 1992. [1] He died in Rome.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Giulio_Carlo_Argan

[Giulio Carlo Argan | American Academy of Arts and Sciences]
Area Humanities and Arts Specialty Visual ArtsElected1992 InternationalHonoraryMember
URL: https://www.amacad.org/person/giulio-carlo-argan

[Giulio Carlo Argan Explained]
In 1973 he founded the Rome ISIA, Italy's oldest institution in the field of industrial design. He was the first Communist mayor of Rome, between 1976 and 1979. He waselectedaForeignHonoraryMemberoftheAmericanAcademyofArts and Sciences in 1992. [1] He died in Rome.
URL: https://everything.explained.today/Giulio_Carlo_Argan/

[Giulio Argan (March 17, 1909 — November 12, 1992), Italian mayor ...]
AmericanAcademyofArts and Sciences]Arganco-founded the publisher Il Saggiatore and he was amemberoftheSuperior Council of Antiquities and Fine Arts (predecessor of the Ministry of Culture), in which he remained until 1974.
URL: https://prabook.com/web/giulio.argan/1297859

[Fra Angelico: A Biographical and Critical Study by Giulio Carlo Argan ...]
In 1968 he published his most famous work, Storia dell'Arte Italiana. In 1973 he founded Rome ISIA, Italy's oldest institution in the field of industrial design. He was the first Communist mayor of Rome, between 1976 and 1979. He waselectedaForeignHonoraryMemberoftheAmericanAcademyofArts and Sciences in 1992. He died in Rome.
URL: https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/50566465-fra-angelico


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Giulio Carlo Argan - Wikipedia] ---
Giulio Carlo Argan (17 May 1909 – 12 November 1992) was an Italian art historian, critic and politician.




--- [Giulio Carlo Argan | American Academy of Arts and Sciences] ---
Giulio Carlo Argan ( – ) 1909 1992 University of Rome; Government of Italy ; Rome, Italy Historian (art); Educator; Museum administrator; Government official (elected and appointed) Area Humanities and Arts Specialty Visual Arts Elected 1992 International Honorary Member Last Updated


--- [Giulio Carlo Argan Explained] ---
No content


--- [Giulio Argan (March 17, 1909 — November 12, 1992), Italian mayor ...] ---
Background ARGAN, Giulio was born on May 17, 1909 in Turin. Son of Valerio and Libera Roncaroli. History is littered with hundreds of conflicts over the future of a community, group, location or business that were "resolved" when one of the parties stepped ahead and destroyed what was there. With the original point of contention destroyed, the debates would fall to the wayside. Archive Team believes that by duplicated condemned data, the conversation and debate can continue, as well as the richness and insight gained by keeping the materials. Our projects have ranged in size from a single volunteer downloading the data to a small-but-critical site, to over 100 volunteers stepping forward to acquire terabytes of user-created data to save for future generations. The main site for Archive Team is at archiveteam.org and contains up to the date information on various projects, manifestos, plans and walkthroughs. This collection contains the output of many Archive Team projects, both ongoing and completed. Thanks to the generous providing of disk space by the Internet Archive, multi-terabyte datasets can be made available, as well as in use by the Wayback Machine, providing a path back to lost websites and work. Our collection has grown to the point of having sub-collections for the type of data we acquire. If you are seeking to browse the contents of these collections, the Wayback Machine is the best first stop. Otherwise, you are free to dig into the stacks to see what you may find. The Archive Team Panic Downloads are full pulldowns of currently extant websites, meant to serve as emergency backups for needed sites that are in danger of closing, or which will be missed dearly if suddenly lost due to hard drive crashes or server failures. (Nesta brilhante coletânea de artigos, o autor de Arte mod...) Nesta brilhante coletânea de artigos, o autor de Arte moderna propõe uma análise extremamente original da arte renascentista. Sua abordagem pode ser resumida na rivalidade entre os artistas da época: os clássicos - que se inspiravam nos modelos da Antigüidade - e os anticlássicos - que pretendiam superar esses modelos. Em outros termos, clássico seria o moderno que procurava superar padrões herdados dos antigos, enquanto o anticlássico reinterpretaria os velhos cânones da representação. Argan analisa a obra de grandes mestres da pintura, da escultura e da arquitetura - como Botticelli, Michelangelo, Leonardo da Vinci e Brunelleschi -, e, numa linguagem precisa mas cheia de entusiasmo, mostra que nelas permanece viva a eloqüência de cada artista. http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/8571648336/?tag=2022091-20 mayor politician art historian teacher ARGAN, Giulio was born on May 17, 1909 in Turin. Son of Valerio and Libera Roncaroli. University of Turin. In 1928 he entered the National Fascist Party. In the 1930 he worked for the National Antiquity and Arts Directorate, first in Turin and then in Modena and Rome, where he collaborated to the creation of the Istituto Superiore per la Conservazione ed il Restauro and directed the magazine Le Arti. In 1938 he published a manual of art for high schools, while in the 1940s he collaborated to the magazine Primato, founded and directed by Giuseppe Bottai, another Fascist gerarca. After World World War II, he taught in universities Palermo and, from 1959, in Rome. In 1968 he published his most famous work, Storia dell"Arte Italiana. In 1973 he founded Rome ISIA, Italy"s oldest institution in the field of industrial design. He was the first Communist mayor of Rome, between 1976 and 1979. He died in Rome. (Nesta brilhante coletânea de artigos, o autor de Arte mod...) American Academy of Arts and Sciences] Argan co-founded the publisher Il Saggiatore and he was a member of the Superior Council of Antiquities and Fine Arts (predecessor of the Ministry of Culture), in which he remained until 1974. Married Anna Maria Mazzucchelli in 1939.


--- [Fra Angelico: A Biographical and Critical Study by Giulio Carlo Argan ...] ---
Giulio Carlo Argan was an Italian art historian and politician. He was born in Turin and studied in the University of Turin, graduating in 1931. In 1928 he entered the National Fascist Party. In the 1930 he worked for the National Antiquity and Arts Directorate, first in Turin and then in Modena and Rome, where he collaborated to the creation of the Istituto Centrale di Restauro and directed the magazine Le Arti. His career was boosted by the friendship of the Fascist leader Cesare Maria De Vecchi, then national Minister of Education. In 1938 he published a manual of art for high schools, while in the 1940s he collaborated to the magazine Primato, founded and directed by Giuseppe Bottai, another Fascist gerarca. After World War II, he taught in universities Palermo and, from 1959, in Rome. Argan co-founded the publisher Il Saggiatore and he was a member of the Superior Council of Antiquities and Fine Arts (predecessor of the Ministry of Culture), in which he remained until 1974. In 1968 he published his most famous work, Storia dell'Arte Italiana. In 1973 he founded Rome ISIA, Italy's oldest institution in the field of industrial design. He was the first Communist mayor of Rome, between 1976 and 1979. He was elected a Foreign Honorary Member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1992. He died in Rome.
