=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Stella Rimington - Wikipedia]
She was the first female Director General of MI5, and the first Director General whose name was publicised on appointment. In 1993, Rimington became the first Director General of MI5 to pose openly for photos at the launch of a brochure outlining the organisation's activities. [1][2]
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stella_Rimington

[Dame Stella Rimington | MI5 - The Security Service]
Dame Stella Rimington (born 1935) was the first woman to become Director General of the Security Service on her appointment to that position in 1992. The following year she became the Service's first publicly acknowledged DG. She joined the Service in 1969 and worked in a variety of roles, including counter-subversion and counter-terrorism.
URL: https://www.mi5.gov.uk/about-us/director-general/former-directors-general/dame-stella-rimington

[Dame Stella Rimington, former MI5 director general, dies at 90]
Aug 4, 2025 · Dame Stella was the first female director general of the service and the first to be publicly identified.
URL: https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/articles/cgkrm00y6rgo

[Stella Rimington, first female MI5 chief, dies aged 90]
Aug 4, 2025 · Stella Rimington, the first female director of MI5 and the first head of the domestic spy agency to be publicly named, has died aged 90.
URL: https://www.theguardian.com/uk-news/2025/aug/04/stella-rimington-first-female-director-of-mi5-dies-aged-90

[Stella Rimington]
Dame Stella Rimington DCB was an author and former Director General of MI5. ... first female DG, but the first whose name was publicised on appointment.
URL: https://thebookerprizes.com/the-booker-library/judges/stella-rimington


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Stella Rimington - Wikipedia] ---
Dame Stella Rimington (née Whitehouse; 13 May 1935 – 3 August 2025) was a British author and Director General of MI5, a position she held from 1992 to 1996. She was the first female Director General of MI5, and the first Director General whose name was publicised on appointment. In 1993, Rimington became the first Director General of MI5 to pose openly for photos at the launch of a brochure outlining the organisation's activities.


--- [Dame Stella Rimington | MI5 - The Security Service] ---
Dame Stella Rimington Director General 1992 - 96 Dame Stella Rimington Dame Stella Rimington (born 1935) was the first woman to become Director General of the Security Service on her appointment to that position in 1992. The following year she became the Service's first publicly acknowledged DG. She joined the Service in 1969 and worked in a variety of roles, including counter-subversion and counter-terrorism. She became the first woman to be promoted to the rank of Director of a Service branch. Under her management as Director General, the Service took on the lead role in the fight against Irish republican terrorism. Dame Stella also instituted a policy of greater public openness that included the beginning of an ongoing programme of releasing historical Service files to the National Archives. Dame Stella retired from the Service in 1996. She was appointed Dame Commander of the Order of the Bath in the same year and published her autobiography, Open Secret, in 2001. Since then she has published a number of novels set in the world of intelligence and counter-terrorism.


--- [Dame Stella Rimington, former MI5 director general, dies at 90] ---
Dame Stella Rimington, former MI5 director general, dies at 90 - Published Dame Stella Rimington, MI5's first female director general, has died at the age of 90, her family has said. Dame Stella, who headed the security service from 1992 to 1996, was widely credited as being the model for Dame Judi Dench's M in the James Bond films. She joined MI5 full time in 1969, and served as deputy director general in 1991 before being promoted to director general a year later. "She died surrounded by her beloved family and dogs and determinedly held on to the life she loved until her last breath," her family said in a statement. Paying tribute to Dame Stella, current MI5 director general Sir Ken McCallum said his predecessor, as the first publicly stated female head of any intelligence agency in the world, "broke through long-standing barriers and was a visible example of the importance of diversity in leadership". "Her leadership ushered in a new era of openness and transparency about the work MI5 does to keep this country safe, a legacy that continues to this day," he said. Sir Richard Moore, head of MI6, said Dame Stella was a "true trailblazer". In a statement on its website, MI5 said she had a varied career in the service "including roles in counter-subversion, counter-espionage and counter-terrorism". "MI5 underwent far-reaching transformation under Dame Stella's leadership," it said. "She oversaw MI5 taking lead responsibility for countering Irish republican terrorism in Great Britain, the move of MI5's headquarters to Thames House, and instituted a policy of greater public openness to demystify the work of MI5 including beginning a programme of releasing MI5 files to The National Archives." Born in 1935 in South Norwood, south London, Dame Stella got her first role at MI5 as a part-time clerk typist in India, where she had accompanied her husband on a diplomatic posting four years earlier. The Cold War and threats posed by the Soviet Union dominated much of her early career. She was the first director general to be publicly identified when appointed - and when a newspaper published a photo of her house, she and her family had to move to a covert location for their own protection. Speaking on BBC Radio 4's Woman's Hour in 1999, Dame Stella said she had "thoroughly approved" of the decision to make her name public when she became director general, but added that she hadn't "really guessed quite how much interest there was going to be and the great level of press attention" there was. She said "very rapidly" she and her family had had to move from their "ordinary London street" and "effectively go underground, which was a rather strange reverse when one had been trying to be more open". During her time as director general and following the end of the Cold War, threats from Russia continued to take up her time. Delivering the annual Richard Dimbleby lecture in 1994 at Whitehall, she spoke about how the number of Russian intelligence officers in the UK had "begun to creep up again", and warned that "we must therefore remain on our guard". She also argued for the establishment of "the same sort of professional liaison with the Russian services" that she said had been "successfully established elsewhere, including in the former Eastern bloc". She added, however, that there was "still a considerable way to go" to make that happen. She was head of the service in 1996, when the IRA bombed Canary Wharf, killing two people. She retired from the service the same year, and went on to publish her autobiography, Open Secret, in 2001. A number of spy novels followed. While guest editing the Today programme in 2007, she said spy writers had created "a totally glamorous world around the profession of spying" that "bears very little relation to reality". In 2014 she revealed on BBC Breakfast that her novels had to be submitted to the security service for clearance, and that she had occasionally been asked to change names and places by MI5. - Published30 June 2014


--- [Stella Rimington, first female MI5 chief, dies aged 90] ---
Stella Rimington, the first female director of MI5 and the first head of the domestic spy agency to be publicly named, has died aged 90. She died on Sunday night “surrounded by her beloved family and dogs and determinedly held on to the life she loved until her last breath”, her family said in a statement. MI5 paid tribute to Rimington. Ken McCallum, its current chief, said she was “the first avowed female head of any intelligence agency in the world” and praised her for breaking “through longstanding barriers”. She was, he added: “A visible example of the importance of diversity in leadership.” An accidental spy, recruited in the mid-1960s as a typist when her husband, John, was posted to India on diplomatic service, Rimington rose through the ranks to end up as chief of the Security Service between 1992 and 1996. After her appointment as director general, she was the first chief of the agency to be named, although no photograph was supplied at first and the only image available was a blurry picture of her in the street wearing a distinctive raincoat. “I’m proud that I was the first woman DG and that, during the time I was there, MI5 changed from being an old-fashioned closet organisation,” she said in an interview in 2011 as she reflected on her secret career. In her first interview after leaving the agency in 2001, with the Guardian, Rimington said she was drawn to the world of espionage despite the fact that when she started at the agency “there were all of these tweedy guys with pipes”. “I still thought the essence of the cold war and spies and stuff was fun. You know, going around listening to people’s telephones and opening their mail and stuff,” she added, though she also conceded MI5 was “overenthusiastic” during the cold war. Rimington held roles in MI5 units tackling counter-subversion, counter-espionage and counter-terrorism, and she acknowledged that MI5 was involved in assessing threats to national security posed by leaders of the miners’ strike in 1984-85. She was also involved in debriefing the star British agent Oleg Gordievsky after he was extracted from the Soviet Union by MI6 in the mid-1980s. Gordievsky said later he “liked her as a woman immensely”, though Rimington said in a documentary she was unaware of the romantic impression she had made on the defector. During her time as MI5’s director general she oversaw an agency making a wider transition from tackling the cold war threat to terrorism, and was the first agency chief to give a public lecture to the BBC. “I have set out in this lecture to show that a security service such as MI5 is compatible with personal liberty within our democracy,” she said. Such was her profile, she was considered a model for Judi Dench’s portrayal of M, the fictional chief of sister agency MI6, in a series of James Bond movies. After leaving MI5, Rimington principally became a writer. Her first book was a memoir, Open Secret, published in 2001, though there was a furious row about her decision to write an autobiography at the time. Particular objections came from the SAS, and she was ordered to remove all references to the elite special forces. A series of novels followed, eight with Liz Carlyle, an MI5 officer as the lead character, and two more with Manon Tyler, a CIA agent. In one of her books, Rip Tide, published in 2011, she sent up American officials who imagined that al-Qaida could be bombed into submission. “I’m tweaking the Americans’ tails,” she said, having previously argued in 2009 the US had “gone too far with Guantánamo and the tortures” in an interview with a Spanish newspaper. Born as Stella Whitehouse in 1935, she moved from London to Barrow-in-Furness aged four, and remembered the port town being repeatedly bombed during the war. She married John Rimington in 1963 and they had two daughters, but the couple separated in 1984. Rimington and her husband never divorced, however, and she and John became friends again later in life, living together during the Covid lockdown. “Yes, we argued, but we’ve mellowed. It’s a good recipe for marriage, I’d say: split up, live separately, and return to it later,” she said.


--- [Stella Rimington] ---
2011 Judge (Chair) Dame Stella Rimington DCB was an author and former Director General of MI5 She held the Director General position at MI5 from 1992-96 and was not only the domestic counter-intelligence and security agency’s first female DG, but the first whose name was publicised on appointment. Rimington retired from MI5 in 1996, and was then a non-executive director for companies such as Marks & Spencer and BG Group. She published her memoirs, Open Secret, in 2001. In July 2004, her first novel, At Risk, about a female intelligence officer, was published. Her other novels include Secret Asset (2006), Illegal Action (2007), Dead Line (2008), Present Danger (2009), The Geneva Trap (2012) and Close Call (2014). She was Chair of the judging panel for the Man Booker Prize in 2011, a year in which she and her fellow judges were widely criticised for focusing on ‘readability’ rather than literary quality. Rimington responded during her speech at the Booker ceremony by comparing British literary critics to the KGB. Dame Stella Rimington died on 3 August 2025, aged 90.
