=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Placebo Effect | Archer Wiki - Fandom]
"Placebo Effect" is the ninth episode of the second season and the nineteenth episode overall of Archer. It originally aired on March 24, 2011. After discovering his cancer medication is fake, Archer goes on a murderous rampage against the Irish mob with Lana in tow. Archer is going over his breast cancer treatment and ultra-expensive chemotherapy drugs with Doctor Krieger. Krieger, disturbed ...
URL: https://archer.fandom.com/wiki/Placebo_Effect

["Archer" Placebo Effect (TV Episode 2011)]
Archer and Lana go on a rampage where Archer hosts a game of Family Feud between members of the Irish mob and Honduran janitors to learn the name of the man in ...
URL: https://m.imdb.com/title/tt1883469/

["Archer" Placebo Effect (TV Episode 2011) - IMDb]
Placebo Effect: Directed by Adam Reed. With H. Jon Benjamin, George Coe, Darren Criss, Judy Greer. When Archer discovers the chemotherapy drugs he's been taking for his breast cancer are counterfeit, he sets out to destroy the criminals behind the scheme.
URL: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt1883469/

[Just Rewatched S2E9 Placebo Effect, and man, it has got to be my favorite ...]
Details about Archer's S2E9 Placebo Effect. Archer episode where Sterling goes on rampage. Do Archer and Lana end up together? Favorite Archer ...
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/ArcherFX/comments/zk8pj1/just_rewatched_s2e9_placebo_effect_and_man_it_has/

[Archer S 2 E 9 Placebo Effect Recap - TV Tropes]
A page for describing Recap: Archer S 2 E 9 Placebo Effect. When Archer discovers the chemotherapy drugs heâ€™s been taking for his cancer …
URL: https://tvtropes.org/pmwiki/pmwiki.php/Recap/ArcherS2E9PlaceboEffect


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Placebo Effect | Archer Wiki - Fandom] ---
"Placebo Effect" is the ninth episode of the second season and the nineteenth episode overall of Archer. It originally aired on March 24, 2011. Plot[] Synopsis[] After discovering his cancer medication is fake, Archer goes on a murderous rampage against the Irish mob with Lana in tow. Summary[] Archer is going over his breast cancer treatment and ultra-expensive chemotherapy drugs with Doctor Krieger. Krieger, disturbed by the lack of side effects related with chemo, does some tests and reveals that Archer's drug is counterfeit - consisting mainly of sucrose and (what Krieger guesses to be) Zima, with the only real thing being his medical cannabis. Angered over being tricked and the thought of other patients given fake drugs (mainly an elderly woman he befriended named Ruth), Archer goes on a rampage to kill the fake drug traffickers whilst Lana films it. After threatening a pharmacist, Archer and Lana are led to a warehouse used by the Irish Mob where Archer kills several armed guards before capturing three members of the Mob and three Honduran janitors. Archer tortures the mobsters by shooting them in the knee with a sawed-off shotgun for information and learns that the mastermind behind the fake drug scheme is Franny Delaney. After shooting the mobsters, Archer finds the real chemotherapy drugs and (against Lana's advice) takes them immediately, causing him to become ill. The next day Archer (now wearing a red bandana to cover his hair loss, wine bottle coolers on his feet because his toenails are popping off 'like pogs', and dragging an IV stand around) resumes his rampage, though he is vomiting constantly. In Lana's Car, Archer laments on his hair loss and is trying to keep from vomiting, leading to him to light a cannabis cigarette that causes him to have a flashback to memories of his time with Ruth in the hospital. Lana snaps him out of his flashback as they have reached their destination. Elsewhere Krieger, feeling bad for Archer, is making Portuguese language flash cards for him. Confused, Cyril asks how Krieger, a German, knows Portuguese. Krieger tries to avoid the subject, only for Cyril to push more, causing Krieger to shout a Nazi saying before quickly leaving the room, which leads Cyril to believe Krieger is a former Nazi scientist. Cyril later finds Krieger locked in the men's bathroom, burning papers in one of the toilets. Cyril tries to question him more on his Nazi connection to which Krieger only denies any connection, causing Cyril to leave to tell Malory. Archer and Lana barge their way into a back room poker game of more Irish mobsters where Archer handcuffs one of them to the poker table and shoves a grenade in the mobster's rectum and pull the pin, to get information on Delaney's location. After they get their information, Archer and Lana are about to leave when Archer says that the grenade is only a smoke grenade. The grenade then explodes (being a frag grenade) tossing Lana and Sterling out of the room and causing them some hearing loss. An aggravated Lana takes them to the hospital to have their hearing restored where Archer learns of Ruth's death from a hospital nurse. Archer then reawakens from another cannabis-induced flashback to find that they are at Delaney's compound, and Archer takes him in the woods to kill him while Lana holds the guards at gunpoint, who is also high from the hotboxing, which leaves her car smelling like "weed and rampage." Back at ISIS Headquarters, Malory is looking through photo albums of Sterling and realizes that she and Sterling have never taken a photo together. Cyril tries to tell her about Krieger's Nazi roots only for her to brush them off, as Nazi scientists led to things such as NASA rockets and microwave ovens. She then reveals that Krieger is possibly a genetic clone of Adolf Hitler, and she is responsible for his father's death when Krieger was 15. Archer is holding Delaney at gunpoint in the woods. Delaney mocks Archer and says that Archer won't kill him as Archer has too much honor to kill an old man in a wheelchair, and further mocks Archer by revealing that he slept with Malory at a single's resort in Thailand at some point. Delaney starts to wheel himself away when Archer stops him (Asking the same question Ruth ask him), turns slowly, and fires his gun and the video pauses is rewound and replayed at this point over and over again. Everyone is shown in Malory's office watching the video footage which Archer has turned into his own film, Terms of En-Rampagement (working title). Which he has them watch every week and has so for the past 3 months. Archer is overjoyed with his awesome movie and that his cancer is in remission. Cast[] - Starring : - Co-Starring : - George Coe as Woodhouse - Adam Reed as Ray Gillette / Franny Delaney - Lucky Yates as Dr. Krieger - Joan Van Ark as Ruth - Darren Criss as Mikey Hannity / Tommy - Lloyd Sherr as Paddy Cultural References[] - Julius Caesar by Shakespeare: Archer and Lana refer to the line “Cry 'Havoc!', and let slip the dogs of war”. - Archer incorrectly says "hogs" rather than dogs, for comic effect. It's also a potential reference to the video game "Hogs of War". - Boys from Brazil (1978): British-American science fiction thriller film directed by Franklin J. Schaffner. - Taxi Driver (1976): When tooling up Archer has a spring loaded gun identical to the one Travis Bickle uses in his rampage. - Operation Paperclip: Malory alludes to this secret program of the Joint Intelligence Objectives Agency (JIOA) largely carried out by Special Agents of Army CIC, in which more than 1,600 German scientists, engineers, and technicians, such as Wernher von Braun and his V-2 rocket team, were recruited, after the end of World War II, in Germany and taken to the U.S. for government employment, primarily between 1945 and 1959. Many were former members, and some were former leaders, of the Nazi Party. - Sean Hannity: One of the Irish mobsters is named Mikey Hannity. This is likely a reference to conservative talk show host Sean Hannity and is intended to set up Archer's one-liner: "Hey, relax Hannity. It wasn't all that long ago that everybody hated the Irish for swarming over here in their potato-boats and taking all the jobs." - Woodsy Owl / The Owl Drug Company - Archer calls Lana "Woodsy the drug owl" which seems to be a classic double reference to Woodsy Owl - a United States Forest icon who was designed to a mentor to children, providing them with information and advice to help them appreciate nature - and The Owl Drug Company, an American drugstore retailer which sold medicines and pills before venturing into cosmetics, perfumes, and other goods. It was headquartered in San Francisco. - Regis Philbin: "Regis" may be referring to Philbin who co-hosted A.M. Los Angeles, a local morning talk show on KABC-TV, from 1975 to 1981. - Magnum, P.I.:This episode parodies the third season premiere of this show, wherein Magnum kills Ivan, a ruthless murderer given political immunity from his crimes. Cyril even suggests Archer call his movie Magnum, Pee-ew. - Family Feud: The scene with the Irish Mob and Honduran Janitors is a direct reference to this game show, including the team names displaying in all caps, the "Fast Money" round, chance to steal, and Lana being in an "isolation booth". In contrast, a wrong answer on the game show resulted in a "strike", whereas Archer shot them in the kneecap with a shotgun. - Vincent Van Gogh: one of the mobsters names his boss as "Vincent Van Go-Fuck-Yourself". - The Sopranos: Slattery's Meat Market looks very much like Satriale's Pork Store, as featured in this show. - The scarf Archer wears when he loses his hair is similar to the one worn by Steven Van Zandt, both a cast member on The Sopranos and member of Bruce Springsteen's E Street Band (which is mockingly referred to by one of the mobsters). - Kenner Products: Delaney refers to Malory performing a trick with beads, which he describes as "just like an SSP Racer". This refers to a line of toys from Kenner dating to the early 1970s. An SSP Racer was powered by a plastic pull cord that was vigorously pulled out from a toy racer car with a characteristic "Zing" buzz. - Zima: which Krieger guessed was in Archer's IV bag actually stopped US production in 2008–though it is still produced in Japan. Also, the time period the series is actually set in is unclear. - Pogs: Archer says his toenails are popping off like Pogs, the name of a game originating from POG, a brand of juice made from passionfruit, orange, and guava; the use of POG bottle caps to play the game preceded the game's commercialization. - Citizen Kane: Cheryl suggests Archer rename "Terms of Enrampagement" to "Citizen Dick-Bag" a reference to the movie Citizen Kane. She also recommends "Casablumpkin" which is a reference to Casa Blanca. - Team Livestrong: Archer makes it his own by uttering “Team Live Bad-Ass” instead. Livestrong was a popular cancer awareness brand with yellow stretch bracelets, popular until Lance Armstrong admitted to doping. Running Gags / Callbacks[] - Lana's Hands - Several members of Franny Delaney's gang make comments about Lana's "monster hands" and in one case, believe she's a transvestite. - Duuuhhh! - Cheryl repeatedly uses this expression ironically, as she doesn't get the thing which is supposed to be so obvious. This is lampshaded when she says "I actually have no idea" and "I don't know why do that." - Medical Doobies - Archer chain smokes 'joints the size of tampons' at every available opportunity, especially with Ruth. - Ew / Ick - Lana's reaction to Archer threatening to insert a knife in the pharmacist's dickhole. - Idiot! - Archer keeps calling Lana one. - Tinnitus - Archer gives it to Lana, and they both end up with perforated eardrums after a grenade goes off. - Malory's Many Affairs - It is revealed that Malory had a brief affair with the villain Franny Delaney in Thailand. - Krieger's Containers - Containers in Krieger's lab have unusual items as usual. - You Say That... - Rampage - Archer is on a chemo-medicine and medical marijuana infused one, in revenge for all the cancer patients who were sold phoney medicines - and for his friend Ruth, who died. - Classic Him - Lana's car smelling of weed and rampage is classic Archer, according to Lana. Continuity[] - The events of this episode follow directly from the events in the previous episode in which Archer was diagnosed with breast cancer. - Archer gets Lana back for giving him tinnitus in a previous episode. Trivia[] - There is an “SCBA is required” danger sign on a door in Krieger's office. - The x-ray image of Archer's tumor from Stage Two (previous episode) is clearly reused, showing it unchanged and calling into question the nature of his surgery. Normally a tumor would be excised, and a biopsy would be run along with blood work. Which are used to determine if the removal was successful in putting the patient into remission. Thus this may be a continuity error. - Archer's weaponry in this episode is as follows: - Two Walther PPKs. One kept in an ankle holster, one kept in on a sliding holster on his forearm (A reference to the film Taxi Driver.) Neither are used. - A Colt M1911A1 tucked down the front of his pants. Used to kill Delany. - A sawn-off shotgun kept in a shoulder holster under his left arm. Used to kill three unnamed henchmen. This is one of Woodhouse's weapons in the Reggie's bar flashbacks in "The Double Deuce". - A Walther WA2000 Sniper rifle, attached to shoulder holster with a hook under his right arm. Used to kill three Irish Mob guards. - A Mk 2 Fragmentation Grenade. Used to threaten and kill a high ranking member of the Irish Mob - Two knives. A stiletto kept in a scabbard on his back. only used to threaten the Pharmacist. And a small push dagger concealed in his belt buckle, Unused. - Archer uses a Sky Air air sickness bag in Lana's car. - Both Delaney & Malory mispronounced Phuket as "Fu-kett", the correct pronunciation is "Poo-ket". - Krieger's origins begin to be established: - During Malory's flashback about how she acquired Krieger on his 15th birthday, the man standing next to the car that Malory is in looks like Gregory Peck, who was the villain in the movie Boys from Brazil. - In attempting to lie to Cyril, Krieger awkwardly asserts there are "a lot of Portuguese" in Rhode Island. This is actually somewhat true as Portuguese is the third most common language in Rhode Island after English and Spanish. Specifically, Krieger claims to be from Bristol County, RI, which is one of the few counties in the United States where a plurality of residents report Portuguese ancestry. - The Portuguese written on the card Dr. Krieger makes up for Archer says "Good morning, I have breast cancer." - On the papers burnt by Krieger in the toilet is written "Streng Geheim", which is German for "Top Secret". - A light is shone on Archer's relationship with Malory: it turns out that she wasn't at all the keystone events in his his life - including his Christening - and in the face of his cancer diagnosis can't bring herself to say how much he means to her. Locations[] Quotes[] - Krieger: "So there's your breast-cancer tumor and the portacath through which you take cyclophosphamate intravenously." - Archer: "Sim." (Yeah.) - Krieger: "And you're taking tetraphenol… orally, right?" - Archer: "E também Portuguese, em CD-Rom." (And also Portuguese, on CD-ROM.) - Krieger: "Ah, boa sorte!" (Ah, good luck!) - Archer: "Obrigado." (Thanks.) ───────────────────────── - Krieger: "Two weeks of chemo with no hair loss, and you're not experiencing any nausea?" - Archer: "Nao, gracas al 'doobie' medicinao." (No, thanks to this medicinal doobie.) ───────────────────────── - Archer: "And why couldn't it be the Brazilian mob? Estou aprendendo Portuguese, Lana." (I am learning Portuguese, Lana.) ───────────────────────── - Archer: "And I'm pretty sure — and guys, feel free to correct me — that "beaner" is a pejorative term for a Mexican. Esta correto ou nao?" (Is that correct or no?) ───────────────────────── - Cyril: "Warum hast Du Umzug nach Brasilien?" (Why did you move to Brazil?) - Krieger: "Weiter den Kampf der mein Führer! Scheiße!" (To continue the fight of my Leader! Shit…) ───────────────────────── - Malory: "Do you like powered orange breakfast drink?" - Cyril: "No, not really..." - Malory: "How about microwave ovens, Neil Armstrong, hook and loop fasteners?" - Cyril: "OK, you lost me." - Malory: "None of those things would've been possible without the Nazi scientists we brought back after World War II." [Operation Paperclip] - Cyril: "The Nazis invented Neil Armstrong?" - Malory: "Rockets! Which put him on the moon! After the war ended we were snatching up kraut scientists like hot cakes. You don't believe me? Walk into NASA sometime and yell "Heil Hitler!" - whoop - they all jump straight up!" - Cyril: "But... " - Malory: "Cyril: I know all about Dr. Krieger's...origins...and I also know that nobody likes a tattle-tale." - Krieger: "Yeah Cyril!" - And if there's one thing I've learned in all my years as a spymaster it's that you keep your friends close..." - Krieger: "YEAH! Cyril." - Malory: "...and possible genetic clones of Adolf Hitler closer." - Krieger: "Yeah Cy- wait, what?" - Cyril: "Yeah, what?" - Malory: "Hmmm?" ───────────────────────── Thanks to tv.com, MirrorForce, and Matt for the transcripts and translations. Gallery of Images[] There are 24 screenshots and images from "Placebo Effect" on this Wiki, visit the category page for a complete gallery. External Links[] - "Placebo Effect" on IMDB Reference List[] - ↑ Archer Season 2 Episode 9 Ratings on tvbythenumbers.com


--- ["Archer" Placebo Effect (TV Episode 2011)] ---
Formed in 2009, the Archive Team (not to be confused with the archive.org Archive-It Team) is a rogue archivist collective dedicated to saving copies of rapidly dying or deleted websites for the sake of history and digital heritage. The group is 100% composed of volunteers and interested parties, and has expanded into a large amount of related projects for saving online and digital history. History is littered with hundreds of conflicts over the future of a community, group, location or business that were "resolved" when one of the parties stepped ahead and destroyed what was there. With the original point of contention destroyed, the debates would fall to the wayside. Archive Team believes that by duplicated condemned data, the conversation and debate can continue, as well as the richness and insight gained by keeping the materials. Our projects have ranged in size from a single volunteer downloading the data to a small-but-critical site, to over 100 volunteers stepping forward to acquire terabytes of user-created data to save for future generations. The main site for Archive Team is at archiveteam.org and contains up to the date information on various projects, manifestos, plans and walkthroughs. This collection contains the output of many Archive Team projects, both ongoing and completed. Thanks to the generous providing of disk space by the Internet Archive, multi-terabyte datasets can be made available, as well as in use by the Wayback Machine, providing a path back to lost websites and work. Our collection has grown to the point of having sub-collections for the type of data we acquire. If you are seeking to browse the contents of these collections, the Wayback Machine is the best first stop. Otherwise, you are free to dig into the stacks to see what you may find. The Archive Team Panic Downloads are full pulldowns of currently extant websites, meant to serve as emergency backups for needed sites that are in danger of closing, or which will be missed dearly if suddenly lost due to hard drive crashes or server failures.


--- ["Archer" Placebo Effect (TV Episode 2011) - IMDb] ---
Placebo Effect - Episode aired Mar 24, 2011 - TV-MA - 21m IMDb RATING 8.9/10 2.6K YOUR RATING When Archer discovers the chemotherapy drugs he's been taking for his breast cancer are counterfeit, he sets out to destroy the criminals behind the scheme.When Archer discovers the chemotherapy drugs he's been taking for his breast cancer are counterfeit, he sets out to destroy the criminals behind the scheme.When Archer discovers the chemotherapy drugs he's been taking for his breast cancer are counterfeit, he sets out to destroy the criminals behind the scheme. George Coe - Woodhouse - (voice) Darren Criss - Mikey - (voice) - … Judy Greer - Cheryl Tunt - (voice) Amber Nash - Pam Poovey - (voice) Chris Parnell - Cyril Figgis - (voice) Adam Reed - Ray Gillette - (voice) - … Lloyd Sherr - Paddy - (voice) Aisha Tyler - Lana Kane - (voice) Joan Van Ark - Ruth - (voice) Jessica Walter - Malory Archer - (voice) Lucky Yates - Doctor Krieger - (voice) Featured reviews If this episode didn't come I would have a zero chance to imagine and see for even Archer actually would act kind once in his life time. Every little detail in that episode just like it's others always catching in unpredictable moments. That atmosphere, character's moments and crazy reactions all the time carrying that purely storyline. Yeah... It's obviously this episode is my favorite of this season. I mean, well... Second season has a lot of incredible episodes and crazy storyline but especially this episode... This episode was just like happened in some different parallel universe you know. For me these type of storylines would use and produce much more... 10dr.al Yes, this is an animated show, but everything in it is so well constructed - the characters, the weapons, the vehicles - the buildings, that you almost forget that once in a while. This is one of those episodes. Somebody who was involved in writing this ep. Must have experienced this horrific storyline at some point, either that or they did extensive reading about the whole subject. At any rate they managed to combine pathos, horror, over the top violence, sex, (fake) drugs and numerous references to so many other 80's/90's TV shows and movies that you need a scorecard to keep track - and it was all so gloriously presented, as usual. 10crtshghs BOOYAKASHAW! Archer's rampage MADE this series the best thing to watch on television. Archer has male breast cancer and his prognosis is not good. His doctor is incompetent and is in cahoots with a pharmacist. Apparently, placebos have replaced the real, expensive cancer drugs. An old lady dies and Archer gets emotional. He finds the guys responsible and threatens them. When they won't talk he simply kills them. They had their chance, didn't they. The fact that the title character is dying doesn't seem to phase anyone. They just go about their business. Archer is so arrogant that we could care less about him. Revenge is sought but the whole thing seems unsatisfying. It is good to see the human side of this guy for a change. Did you know - TriviaKrieger, in attempting to lie to Cyril, awkwardly asserts there are "a lot of Portuguese" in Rhode Island. This is somewhat true as Portuguese is the third most common language in Rhode Island after English and Spanish and the fifth most common ancestry group after Irish, Italian, English, and French (information all as of the 2020 US Census). - GoofsA portacath (usually referred to as a port) is placed under the surface of the skin. Archer's can be seen protruding out of his skin. Implantable catheters that stick out of the skin are called PICC (Peripherally inserted central catheter) lines. - Quotes Sterling Archer: What? Wait! So I've been treating my cancer with sugar pills? Dr. Krieger: Yeah, you didn't think it was weird that your chemo drugs were chewable? Sterling Archer: No! Little kids get cancer. Dr. Krieger: [sighs] They do. - ConnectionsFeatured in WatchMojo: Top 10 Funniest Archer Moments (2020) Details - Runtime - 21m - Color - Sound mix - Aspect ratio - 1.78 : 1 - 16:9 HD Contribute to this page Suggest an edit or add missing content


--- [Just Rewatched S2E9 Placebo Effect, and man, it has got to be my favorite ...] ---
You've been blocked by network security. To continue, log in to your Reddit account or use your developer token If you think you've been blocked by mistake, file a ticket below and we'll look into it. Log in File a ticket


--- [Archer S 2 E 9 Placebo Effect Recap - TV Tropes] ---
When Archer discovers the chemotherapy drugs he’s been taking for his cancer are counterfeit (mainly consisting of sucrose and Zima), he sets out to destroy the criminals behind the scheme. This episode provides examples of: - Ass Shove: Archer interrogates a mobster by shoving a grenade up his ass and releasing the pin. He ends up killing him despite getting the information because he had mistaken a frag grenade for a smoke one. - Asshole Victim: Even though he was a sick old man in a wheelchair, Delaney still sold fake medication to cancer patients. He got what was coming to him when Archer shot him. - Bullying a Dragon: - One of the Irish mobsters at Archer's mercy laughs at him having breast cancer... after Archer had already killed one of them. It ends with a shotgun blast to the mobster's face. - Delaney is so convinced Archer won't shoot him, he tells him a story about meeting his mother at a singles retreat, including an... interesting use of beads. Between this and his belief that Archer is really that "honorable", Delaney obviously doesn't know him well. (See Horrible Judge of Character). - Cool Old Lady: Ruth, the cancer patient who Archer strikes up an Odd Friendship with, is sweet enough to bring out the non-Jerkass side of Archer. - Did Not Think This Through: Archer ignores Lana's warning to not take his medicine mid-rampage, only to get sick a moment later in a nearby bathroom. - Double Take: Cyril and Krieger have this reaction when Malory says that the latter is a genetic clone of Hitler. - Even Evil Has Standards: Malory murdered the cleaning ladies in cold blood just because they unionized, but even she's appalled at the idea of someone making money off fake cancer medication. She is also upset when Archer tells her his cancer has been growing. - Mikey might be a member of the Irish mafia helping run a phony medicine scam, but he thought it was faking treatment for male pattern baldness. Once he hears they were selling fake cancer medication, he's stunned and spills the beans. - Dr. Krieger is willing to put his coworkers and innocent people in harm's way in order to advance his experiments (or to satisfy his dark sexual fetishes), but he also showed a genuine concern for Archer's health when he noticed his cancer medication wasn't showing any of the common side effects like hair loss or nausea, prompting him to test the medication and find out it was fake. He was also saddened when Archer reminded him that "little kids get cancer". - Freudian Threat: Archer threatens to slowly slide his knife up a pharmacist's urethra unless he gives him the information he wants. Needless to say, he spills the beans so fast that Archer can barely keep up.Lana: Well, you did threaten to shove a knife up his dickhole, which, again... ick. - Horrible Judge of Character: When Archer threatens to kill him, Delaney argues that he won't really do it because he's "honor-bound". More specifically, he figures that just because Archer happened to only killed armed men during his rampage means he wouldn't dare shoot a frail, unarmed old man in a wheelchair. He doesn't know Archer very well. - Kick the Dog: At the end of the episode, Malory says that she liked Sterling better when he had cancer. She meant in the context that he was nicer when he had cancer, but Sterling takes Malory's statement the wrong way and calls her out on it. - Knee-capping: The workers packing the drugs get knee-capped when they refuse to say who's running the operation. - Lock-and-Load Montage: Sterling does it in front of the pharmacist to get him to talk about the fake chemo drugs. - Meaningful Echo: Before he decides to kill off Delaney, Archer asks him "Did you see 'Regis' this morning?". If anything, it's a meaningful reminder to himself that he's going on this rampage for Ruth, who should've been alive to see it just one more day. - Misplaced Retribution: One of the mobsters at the poker game calls Lana a "bull dyke." Lana responds by shooting everyone but him. - Mistaken for Gay: Archer forces a mobster to apologise to Lana for calling her a homophobic slur. He claims he didn't realise she was gay. Archer explains she's not, just that she has big hands. - Not What I Signed Up For: One of the mooks Archer interrogates says he thought they were stealing cream for male pattern baldness, not cancer medication. He's upset when he finds out the truth. - Odd Friendship: Archer and Ruth, a woman most likely old enough to be his mom, bonded over their shared illnesses, and Archer's rampage is ignited not just for his sake, but because Ruth died thanks to the fake medication. - Reset Button: Despite Archer's deteriorating condition throughout the episode, the end reveals that he has made a miraculous recovery three months after his recorded rampage due to a complete cancer remission. - Rage Breaking Point: Archer finally located the head of the fake cancer medicine racket. His rampage started after he and the late Ruth became victims of it, but it was after the mastermind makes a comment about how his mother found an... interesting use of beads that he finishes him off. - Roaring Rampage of Revenge: Invoked, with Archer explicitly calling what he's doing a rampage. He and Lana record his actions into a movie he tentatively titles Terms of Rampagement. - Running Gag: "Still, though..." note - Shout-Out: - Archer reenacts Family Feud during his interrogation with the mobsters. - Archer's confrontation with Delaney is practically a shot-for-shot remake of the famous "Did you see the sunrise?" scene from the season 3 premier of Magnum, P.I.. Cyril even lampshades this, suggesting Archer should name his movie "Magnum P.U.". - The B-plot with Dr. Krieger possibly being a genetic clone of Adolf Hitler is based on The Boys from Brazil. Pam lampshades this. - Steel Eardrums: Averted. Lana suffers some temporary hearing loss after Archer fires his Sawn-Off Shotgun next to her head. Then a grenade goes off and renders both of them temporarily deaf. Cue a trip to the ENT doctor and both of them sport bandages over their ears, which are bleeding, for the rest of the episode.
