=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Norman Rockwell - Wikipedia]
Rockwell transferred from high school to the Chase Art School (later Parsons School of Design) at the age of 14. He then went on to the National Academy of Design and finally to the Art Students League of New York. [22]
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Norman_Rockwell

[Norman Rockwell - A brief biography - A career in illustration]
—Norman Rockwell Born in New York City in 1894, Norman Rockwell always wanted to be an artist. At age 14, Rockwell enrolled in art classes at The New York School of Art (formerly The Chase School of Art). Two years later, in 1910, he left high school to study art at The National Academy of Design.
URL: https://www.nrm.org/about/about-2/about-norman-rockwell/

[Norman Rockwell Biography - The Saturday Evening Post]
Born in New York City on February 3, 1894, Rockwell always wanted to be an illustrator. He transferred to the Chase Art School at the age of 14, and then went on to the National Academy of Design and the Art Students League. There, he was taught by famous artists such as Thomas Fogarty, George Bridgman, and Frank Vincent DuMond.
URL: https://www.saturdayeveningpost.com/norman-rockwell-biography/

[Norman Rockwell - Park West Gallery]
Aug 3, 2018 · Born on February 3, 1894 in New York City, Rockwell knew from the age of 14 that he wanted to become an artist. He attended the Chase Art School at age 14, and later the National Academy of Design. He finally settled at the Art Students League in New York, where one of his major artistic influences, Howard Pyle, had attended. Rockwell began his full-time career as an illustrator at the age of ...
URL: https://www.parkwestgallery.com/artist/norman-rockwell/

[Norman Rockwell - Illustration History]
Born in New York City, Norman Rockwell (1894-1978) always wanted to be an artist. At age 14, Rockwell enrolled in art classes at The New York School of Art (formerly The Chase School of Art).
URL: https://www.illustrationhistory.org/artists/norman-rockwell


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Norman Rockwell - Wikipedia] ---
Norman Percevel Rockwell (February 3, 1894 – November 8, 1978) was an American painter and illustrator. His works have a broad popular appeal in the United States for their reflection of the country's culture. Rockwell is most famous for the cover illustrations of everyday life he created for The Saturday Evening Post magazine over nearly five decades. Among the best-known of Rockwell's works are the Willie Gillis series, Rosie the Riveter, the Four Freedoms series, Saying Grace, and The Problem We All Live With. He is also noted for his 64-year relationship with the Boy Scouts of America (BSA), during which he produced covers for their publication Boys' Life (now Scout Life), calendars, and other illustrations. These works include popular images that reflect the Scout Oath and Scout Law such as The Scoutmaster, A Scout Is Reverent, and A Guiding Hand.
Rockwell was a prolific artist, producing more than 4,000 original works in his lifetime. Most of his surviving works are in public collections. Rockwell was also commissioned to illustrate more than 40 books, including Tom Sawyer and Huckleberry Finn and to paint portraits of presidents Eisenhower, Kennedy, Johnson, and Nixon, as well as those of foreign figures, including Gamal Abdel Nasser and Jawaharlal Nehru. His portrait subjects also included Judy Garland. One of his last portraits was of Colonel Sanders in 1973. His annual contributions for the Boy Scouts calendars between 1925 and 1976 were only slightly overshadowed by his most popular of calendar works: the "Four Seasons" illustrations for Brown & Bigelow that were published for 17 years beginning in 1947 and reproduced in various styles and sizes since 1964. He created artwork for advertisements for Coca-Cola, Jell-O, General Motors, Scott Tissue, and other companies. Illustrations for booklets, catalogs, posters (particularly movie promotions), sheet music, stamps, playing cards, and murals (including "Yankee Doodle Dandy" and "God Bless the Hills", which was completed in 1936 for the Nassau Inn in Princeton, New Jersey) rounded out Rockwell's oeuvre as an illustrator.
Rockwell's work was dismissed by serious art critics in his lifetime. Many of his works appear overly sweet in the opinion of modern critics, especially The Saturday Evening Post covers, which tend toward idealistic or sentimentalized portrayals of American life. This has led to the often deprecatory adjective "Rockwellesque". Consequently, Rockwell is not considered a "serious painter" by some contemporary artists, who regard his work as bourgeois and kitsch. Writer Vladimir Nabokov stated that Rockwell's brilliant technique was put to "banal" use, and wrote in his novel Pnin: "That Dalí is really Norman Rockwell's twin brother kidnapped by gypsies in babyhood." He is called an "illustrator" instead of an artist by some critics, a designation he did not mind, as that was what he called himself.
In his later years, Rockwell began receiving more attention as a painter when he chose more serious subjects such as the series on racism for Look magazine. One example of this more serious work is The Problem We All Live With, which dealt with the issue of school racial integration. The painting depicts Ruby Bridges, flanked by white federal marshals, walking to school past a wall defaced by racist graffiti. This 1964 painting was displayed in the White House when Bridges met with President Barack Obama in 2011.




--- [Norman Rockwell - A brief biography - A career in illustration] ---
NORMAN ROCKWELL: A BRIEF BIOGRAPHY Without thinking too much about it in specific terms, I was showing the America I knew and observed to others who might not have noticed. —Norman Rockwell Born in New York City in 1894, Norman Rockwell always wanted to be an artist. At age 14, Rockwell enrolled in art classes at The New York School of Art (formerly The Chase School of Art). Two years later, in 1910, he left high school to study art at The National Academy of Design. He soon transferred to The Art Students League, where he studied with Thomas Fogarty and George Bridgman. Fogarty’s instruction in illustration prepared Rockwell for his first commercial commissions. From Bridgman, Rockwell learned the technical skills on which he relied throughout his long career. Rockwell found success early. He painted his first commission of four Christmas cards before his sixteenth birthday. While still in his teens, he was hired as art director of Boys’ Life, the official publication of the Boy Scouts of America, and began a successful freelance career illustrating a variety of young people’s publications. At age 21, Rockwell’s family moved to New Rochelle, New York, a community whose residents included such famous illustrators as J.C. and Frank Leyendecker and Howard Chandler Christy. There, Rockwell set up a studio with the cartoonist Clyde Forsythe and produced work for such magazines as Life, Literary Digest, and Country Gentleman. In 1916, the 22-year-old Rockwell painted his first cover for The Saturday Evening Post, the magazine considered by Rockwell to be the “greatest show window in America.” Over the next 47 years, another 321 Rockwell covers would appear on the cover of the Post. Also in 1916, Rockwell married Irene O’Connor; they divorced in 1930. The 1930s and 1940s are generally considered to be the most fruitful decades of Rockwell’s career. In 1930 he married Mary Barstow, a schoolteacher, and the couple had three sons, Jarvis, Thomas, and Peter. The family moved to Arlington, Vermont, in 1939, and Rockwell’s work began to reflect small-town American life. In 1943, inspired by President Franklin Roosevelt’s address to Congress, Rockwell painted the Four Freedoms paintings. They were reproduced in four consecutive issues of The Saturday Evening Post with essays by contemporary writers. Rockwell’s interpretations of Freedom of Speech, Freedom to Worship, Freedom from Want, and Freedom from Fear proved to be enormously popular. The works toured the United States in an exhibition that was jointly sponsored by the Post and the U.S. Treasury Department and, through the sale of war bonds, raised more than $130 million for the war effort. Norman Rockwell (1894-1978), Freedom of Speech, 1943. Illustration for The Saturday Evening Post, February 20, 1943. From the collection of Norman Rockwell Museum. © 1943 SEPS: Licensed by Curtis Licensing, Indianapolis, IN. All rights reserved. Norman Rockwell (1894-1978), Freedom of Worship, 1943. Illustration for The Saturday Evening Post, February 27, 1943. From the collection of Norman Rockwell Museum. © 1943 SEPS: Licensed by Curtis Licensing, Indianapolis, IN. All rights reserved. Norman Rockwell (1894-1978), Freedom From Want, 1943. Illustration for The Saturday Evening Post, March, 6, 1943. From the collection of Norman Rockwell Museum. © 1943 SEPS: Licensed by Curtis Licensing, Indianapolis, IN. All rights reserved. Norman Rockwell (1894-1978), Freedom From Fear, 1943. Illustration for The Saturday Evening Post, March, 13, 1943. From the collection of Norman Rockwell Museum. © 1943 SEPS: Licensed by Curtis Licensing, Indianapolis, IN. All rights reserved. Although the Four Freedoms series was a great success, 1943 also brought Rockwell an enormous loss. A fire destroyed his Arlington studio as well as numerous paintings and his collection of historical costumes and props. In 1953, the Rockwell family moved from Arlington, Vermont, to Stockbridge, Massachusetts. Six years later, Mary Barstow Rockwell died unexpectedly. In collaboration with his son Thomas, Rockwell published his autobiography, My Adventures as an Illustrator, in 1960. The Saturday Evening Post carried excerpts from the best-selling book in eight consecutive issues, with Rockwell’s Triple Self-Portrait on the cover of the first. In 1961, Rockwell married Molly Punderson, a retired teacher. Two years later, he ended his 47-year association with The Saturday Evening Post and began to work for Look magazine. During his 10-year association with Look, Rockwell painted pictures illustrating some of his deepest concerns and interests, including civil rights, America’s war on poverty, and the exploration of space. Among the powerful paintings Rockwell produced in the 1960s, “The Problem We All Live With” stands as one of the most aggressively gentle assertions on moral decency, “Murder in Mississippi” as his most courageous, and “New Kids in the Neighborhood” was his most optimistic. As Rockwell observers, we evolve into a more compassionate culture, not only tolerating the artist’s departure from gently depicting our foibles but embracing his honest confrontations of some of the hard realities of our society. Who but someone who spent sixty-four years winning our hearts by reminding us of who we are could better advise us on treating others as we would like to be treated. In 1973, Rockwell established a trust to preserve his artistic legacy by placing his works in the custodianship of the Old Corner House Stockbridge Historical Society, later to become Norman Rockwell Museum at Stockbridge. The trust now forms the core of the Museum’s permanent collections. In 1976, in failing health, Rockwell became concerned about the future of his studio. He arranged to have his studio and its contents added to the trust. In 1977, Rockwell received the nation’s highest civilian honor, the Presidential Medal of Freedom. He died peacefully at his home in Stockbridge on November 8, 1978, at the age of 84. In 2008, Rockwell was named the official state artist of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, thanks to a dedicated effort from students in Berkshire County, where Rockwell lived for the last 25 years of his life. NORMAN ROCKWELL’S BIKE ROUTE Here is a map of one common route that Norman Rockwell would frequently ride. Start with the green marker and follow the blue trail to one of Rockwell’s favorite destinations, Lake Averic. Incidentally, Lake Averic is the water supply for the town of Stockbridge. Try the bike route yourself! Image Credits: Norman Rockwell (1894-1978), Before the Shot, 1958. Cover illustration for The Saturday Evening Post, March 15, 1958. From the collection of Norman Rockwell Museum. © 1958 SEPS: Curtis Licensing, Indianapolis, IN. All rights reserved. Norman Rockwell (1894-1978), Willie Gillis: USO, 1942. Cover illustration for The Saturday Evening Post, February 7, 1942. © 1942 SEPS: Curtis Licensing, Indianapolis, IN. All rights reserved. Norman Rockwell (1894-1978), Girl Reading the Post, 1941. Cover illustration for The Saturday Evening Post, March 1, 1941. From the collection of Norman Rockwell Museum. © 1941 SEPS: Curtis Licensing, Indianapolis, IN. All rights reserved. Norman Rockwell (1894-1978), Artist Facing Blank Canvas (Deadline), 1938. Cover illustration for The Saturday Evening Post, October 8, 1938. From the collection of Norman Rockwell Museum. © 1938 SEPS: Curtis Licensing, Indianapolis, IN. All rights reserved. Norman Rockwell (1894-1978), Pirate Dreaming of Home, 1924. Cover illustration for The Saturday Evening Post, August 30, 1924. From the collection of Norman Rockwell Museum. © 1924 SEPS: Curtis Licensing, Indianapolis, IN. All rights reserved.


--- [Norman Rockwell Biography - The Saturday Evening Post] ---
“I showed the America I knew and observed to others who might not have noticed.” – Norman Rockwell Norman Perceval Rockwell, The Saturday Evening Post’s most famous illustrator, is considered by many to be one of America’s greatest artists. He was a master storyteller via canvas and paint, and his works, capturing the triumphs and foibles of the common man, are as popular today as they were in decades past. Rockwell’s talent flourished during a period referred to as “The Golden Age of Illustration,” when the nation enjoyed the brilliance of such illustrators as Winslow Homer, J.C. Leyendecker, Maxfield Parrish, N.C. Wyeth, and Ellen Pyle. Born in New York City on February 3, 1894, Rockwell always wanted to be an illustrator. He transferred to the Chase Art School at the age of 14, and then went on to the National Academy of Design and the Art Students League. There, he was taught by famous artists such as Thomas Fogarty, George Bridgman, and Frank Vincent DuMond. Rockwell’s first major commission came in 1912, when he was just 18, with his first book illustration for Carl H. Claudy’s Tell Me Why: Stories about Mother Nature. Rockwell later produced works for St. Nicholas Magazine and the Boy Scouts of America’s publication Boys’ Life, of which he later became the art editor. During his three year tenure (1913–1916), he painted several covers, the first, Scout at Ship’s Wheel, appearing on the Boys’ Life September 1913 edition. Some of Rockwell’s fondest early memories were of summers spent in the country enjoying an adventuresome and carefree existence. His parents took in and cared for boarders, leaving young Rockwell the freedom to spend his days as he wished. Rockwell recalled in his autobiography, “I have no bad memories of my summers in the country,” and remarked that his recollection of this time “all together formed an image of sheer blissfulness.” Many of his experiences during this special time are reflected in his later paintings. Rockwell’s involvement with The Saturday Evening Post began in 1916. His family had moved to New Rochelle, New York, where a then 21-year-old Rockwell shared a studio with cartoonist Clyde Forsythe, who worked for the Post. Forsythe helped Rockwell submit his first successful cover painting, Mother’s Day Off, to the Post in 1916. Forty-seven years later, Rockwell’s work had appeared 322 times on the cover of The Saturday Evening Post — the last, a portrait of John F. Kennedy, appeared in 1963, a week after the president’s assassination. Rockwell spent the last 10 years of his career painting about civil rights, poverty, and space exploration for Look magazine. He received the Presidential Medal of Freedom, the United States of America’s highest civilian honor, in 1977 for “vivid and affectionate portraits of our country.”


--- [Norman Rockwell - Park West Gallery] ---
Whether you’ve seen his covers for the Saturday Evening Post, his “Four Freedoms” World War II paintings, or been to the Norman Rockwell Museum in Stockbridge, Massachusetts, one thing is certain: Rockwell is one of the most iconic American painters of the 20th century. Personal History Born on February 3, 1894 in New York City, Rockwell knew from the age of 14 that he wanted to become an artist. He attended the Chase Art School at age 14, and later the National Academy of Design. He finally settled at the Art Students League in New York, where one of his major artistic influences, Howard Pyle, had attended. Rockwell began his full-time career as an illustrator at the age of 17. Two years later, at the age of 19, he became the art director for Boy’s Life (the magazine for Boy Scouts of America) and had already illustrated his first book. At 22, he illustrated his first cover of the Saturday Evening Post. “The Music Lesson,” Norman Rockwell In 1916, he married Irene O’Connor, who served as a model for Rockwell. They divorced in 1930, which caused Rockwell to move briefly to California, where he met Mary Barstow, a schoolteacher. The couple married that same year and would have three sons. Rockwell attempted to enlist in the U.S. Navy during World War I, but was refused due to the weight requirements for someone of his height. Undeterred, Rockwell gorged on bananas and doughnuts in order to meet the weight requirement. He served as a military artist, but did not see any combat during his tour. “The American Way” (Original image 1944; 2012), Norman Rockwell Rockwell’s career with the Saturday Evening Post lasted for 47 years, totaling 322 original covers. With a captive audience of 3 million readers, the exposure Rockwell received was unprecedented, allowing for his illustrations to reach the hearts of the American people. Throughout his career alongside the Post, Rockwell covered a range of topics that playfully captured everything from heartwarming moments of the American family to inspirational scenes in American history. Due to the popularity and exposure he received from working at the Post, Rockwell began creating covers for other magazines, including Literary Digest, the Country Gentleman, and Life magazine. “Freedom Of Speech” (1943), Norman Rockwell. From “The Four Freedoms” In 1943, Rockwell painted his famous Four Freedoms suite, inspired by President Franklin D. Roosevelt’s 1941 speech of the same name. The four paintings, titled “Freedom of Speech,” “Freedom of Worship,” “Freedom from Want,” and “Freedom from Fear,” were so labor-intensive that Rockwell lost 10 pounds during the in seven months it took to create them. The images were published in the Saturday Evening Post in 1943. Inspired by the imagery, the U.S. Department of Treasury used the paintings as a promotion to sell war bonds and stamps, helping to raise more than $130 million in war bonds. Sadly, in the same year he completed the Four Freedoms, a fire destroyed his studio in Arlington, Vermont, which housed several paintings and his collection of historical costumes and props. The Rockwell family moved to Stockbridge, Massachusetts in 1953. Tragedy struck once again when his wife died suddenly in 1959. He married Molly Punderson, a retired teacher, in 1961. “The Problem We All Live With” (2012), Norman Rockwell In 1963, Rockwell left the Post and began illustrating at Look magazine. Over the next 10 years while at Look, he painted controversial subjects like civil rights and poverty that he was otherwise prohibited from painting by the Post, bringing about some of his most famous works. For instance, his painting, “The Problem We All Live With,” shows a young African-American girl (Ruby Bridges) being escorted to school on the first day of New Orleans’ integration. Rockwell began making lithographs with Circle Gallery, and by the third year, editions were selling out as quickly as they were published. Later he created works for other publishers and developed a large international market for his prints, paintings, drawings, and collectibles. In 1973, Rockwell established a trust for his artwork with the Old Corner House Stockbridge Historical Society, which later became the Norman Rockwell Museum at Stockbridge. He soon after had his studio along with its contents added to the trust. Rockwell died on November 8, 1978, at the age of 84 in his Stockbridge home. Style and Influences Rockwell created more than 4,000 original paintings during his career. Today, the phrase “like a Norman Rockwell painting” summarizes his far-reaching influence on portraying American culture. “Freedom From Want” (1943), Norman Rockwell. From “The Four Freedoms.” As a child, Rockwell’s father read the stories of Charles Dickens to him. He was enchanted by the descriptions Dickens gave, and often drew his characters as he imagined them. Rockwell’s more artistic influence stems from Howard Pyle, a respected American illustrator and artist. Rockwell’s teachers at the Art Students League often held up Pyle as a role model to emulate, furthering Rockwell’s reverence for the artist. Rockwell considered himself a visual storyteller. His characters, which included elements of caricature, are authentic. Expressive, charming, and relatable, his characters encouraged viewers to see the best of themselves in his accessible art. Early in his career, Rockwell dedicated himself to painting characters that were relatable. “Maybe as I grew up and found the world wasn’t the perfect place I had thought it to be, I unconsciously decided that if it wasn’t an ideal world, it should be, and so painted only the ideal aspects of it,” Rockwell once said. “Is He Coming?” Norman Rockwell Rockwell was known for carefully observing the behaviors of the people around him to find inspiration for his paintings. He even invited strangers into his studio to pose as models for paintings. He sketched and photographed them in various poses, ultimately combining his studies into one of his compositions. It’s with this balance of optimism and observation that Rockwell was able to portray both humorous and powerful messages in his art. Accomplishments - Notable collectors of Rockwell’s art include film directors Steven Spielberg and George Lucas. - 1943 – Rockwell’s Four Freedoms suite is exhibited in 16 U.S. cities by the Department of Treasury, helping raise $130 million in war bonds. - 1966 – Rockwell paints portraits of the stars in the film “Stagecoach,” and is even included as an extra in the film. - 1976 – The artist completes his final commission for the Boy Scouts, a calendar illustration. - 1977 – President Gerald Ford presents Rockwell with the Presidential Medal of Freedom, the highest honor a civilian can receive in the United States. - 2006 – The Rockwell painting “Breaking Home Ties” sells for $15 million, setting a new record for a Rockwell painting. - 2008 – Rockwell is posthumously named the official artist of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts. - 2013 – Rockwell’s “Saying Grace” sells for $46 million at auction (including a buyer’s premium), setting the new record.


--- [Norman Rockwell - Illustration History] ---
No content
