=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[LambdaIstanbul- Wikipedia]
LambdaIstanbulis a Turkish LGBTorganization. It was founded in 1993 as a cultural space for the LGBT community, andbecameanofficialorganizationin 2006.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lambda_Istanbul

[Ana sayfa - Lambdaistanbul]
Lambdaistanbul olarakLambdaKültür Merkezi‘ndeki etkinliklerimize bekliyoruz.İstanbulKent Konseyi. the International Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Trans and Intersex Association. Coalition for Sexual and Bodily Rights in Muslim Societies. lambdaistanbul.
URL: https://lambdaistanbul.org/

[WhatdidLambdaIstanbuldoin 2003?]
LambdaIstanbulis anorganizationthat was formed by a group of gays and lesbians right after theIstanbulcity government banned the Christopher Street Day Sexual Liberation Activities that were to take place in July 1993.
URL: https://kaosgl.org/en/single-news/what-did-lambda-istanbul-do-in-2003

[Turkey: Court Shows Bias, DissolvesLambdaIstanbul]
LambdaIstanbul’s lawyers told Human Rights Watch they will receive a fuller explanation when the court produces a full verdict in the coming weeks.Lambdaplans to appeal the decision and the case will be referred to the Court of Cassation.
URL: https://www.hrw.org/news/2008/06/01/turkey-court-shows-bias-dissolves-lambda-istanbul

[lambdaistanbul- ekşi sözlük]
2 temmuz pazar "piknik" mekan: emirgan korusu* (lambda'dan çikis: 10:00). *etkinlik mekanlarinin adresleri asagidadir.karakedi kültür merkezi istiklal caddesi, büyükparmakkapı sokak, no: 8, hayat apt. kat: 4 (pandora kitabevi'nin karşısı) beyoglu -istanbultel: 0212-251 62 73.
URL: https://eksisozluk.com/lambda-istanbul--115870


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [LambdaIstanbul- Wikipedia] ---
Lambda Istanbul is a Turkish LGBT organization. It was founded in 1993 as a cultural space for the LGBT community, and became an official organization in 2006. Clandestine Pride events were held in Turkey starting in 1993, and with Lambda Istanbul participation, they became public marches.
The organization was ordered dissolved in May 2008 following a court decision. The prosecutors claimed that Lambda Istanbul's objectives were "against the law and morality". The order has been criticized by Human Rights Watch and Amnesty International. The Supreme Court of Appeals overturned this order on November 25, 2008, and on April 30, 2009, a lower court granted Lambda Istanbul permission to continue operating.
The agenda of Lambda includes:

Reporting human rights violations.
Helping change the 10th article of the Constitution, pending its amendment. According to the Article No.10 of the Constitution of Turkey, discrimination based on language, race, skin color, gender, political opinion, religion, denomination and similar reasons is prohibited but it does not directly refer to sexual orientation or sexual identity.


--- [Ana sayfa - Lambdaistanbul] ---
Biz Lambdaistanbul gönüllüleri çalışmalarımızda, söylem ve politikalarımızda buradaki ilkeleri temel alıyoruz: - Her türlü ayrımcılığa karşı dayanışma ilkesi - Yatay örgütlenme ilkesi - Şiddetsizlik ilkesi - Otonomi ve bağımsızlık ilkesi - Gönüllülük esaslı çalışma ilkesi - Karar alma süreçlerinde katılımcılık ilkesi - Şeffaflık ilkesi - Sorumluluk ve emeğe saygı ilkesi - Alınan sorumluluklarda hesap verebilirlik ilkesi


--- [WhatdidLambdaIstanbuldoin 2003?] ---
11/03/2004 | Writer: KAOS GL Lambda Istanbul is an organization that was formed by a group of gays and lesbians right after the Istanbul city government banned the Christopher Street Day Sexual Liberation Activities that were to take place in July 1993. After this event, the group that used to gather under the name "Gokkusagi" (Rainbow) took the name Lambda Istanbul. Lambda Istanbul is a group that works for liberation of LGBT people in Turkey. They have been arranging Sunday meetings for LGBTQ people who need to find each other to share their experiences, realize they are not alone. By Cihan Huroglu Published in Kaos GL Magazine, March/April 2004 edition Although end of a year and beginning of a new one is not very important in the development of GLBT movement in Turkey, we wanted to inform the public about what we did in 2003 and encourage ourselves to do more. We started the year 2003 by moving to a new location and opening Lambda Istanbul Cultural Center. The center started to function by showing weekly gay or lesbian themed movies and holding discussions about them. There also had been symposiums about selected topics every Sunday. A few discussions were held about the movies shown during the If Istanbul Rainbow Movies Festival with participation of Tuna Erdem and Hami Cagdas. Then a discussion with Yildirim Turker was held about Tags: life


--- [Turkey: Court Shows Bias, DissolvesLambdaIstanbul] ---
A Turkish court’s decision to disband a human rights organization defending lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) people shows that official repression poses a serious threat to democratic rights and freedom of association, Human Rights Watch said today. On May 29, 2008, the Third Civil Court of First Instance in the Beyoðlu district of Istanbul ruled in favor of a complaint brought by the Istanbul Governor’s Office, and ordered the closing of Lambda Istanbul, a group advocating for LGBT people’s human rights. The complaint argued that Lambda Istanbul’s objectives are “against the law and morality.” The court failed to address these claims in its judgment and reached a decision that the association should be closed on purely procedural grounds. The ruling is the latest in a series of legal measures targeting organizations promoting the rights of LGBT people. “The judge’s arbitrary decision highlights the prejudiced proceedings,” said Emma Sinclair-Webb, Turkey researcher at Human Rights Watch, who attended the hearing in Istanbul. “If the authorities can close one organization on procedural pretexts, all of civil society is in danger.” The judgment referred to article 17 of the Law on Associations and article 60/2 of the Civil Code, which taken together provide for closure of associations if they do not “remedy errors and deficiencies” in their statutes. But the court’s judgment did not specify these “deficiencies.” The proceedings made no reference to these articles before this last hearing on May 29. Neither the Governor’s Office nor the judge or prosecutor raised any such deficiencies in the statutes during previous hearings. Lambda Istanbul’s lawyers told Human Rights Watch they will receive a fuller explanation when the court produces a full verdict in the coming weeks. Lambda plans to appeal the decision and the case will be referred to the Court of Cassation. The Office of the Governor of Istanbul demanded Lambda Istanbul’s closure in early 2007, claiming the name and objectives of the group were offensive to Turkish “moral values and its family structure.” In July 2007, the local Prosecutor’s Office rejected the complaint, but the Governor’s Office took the case to the courts. The court conducted six hearings before issuing the May 2008 verdict. In October 2007, Human Rights Watch researchers met with Istanbul Governor Muammer Guler about the case. Although a department under his authority had initiated the complaint, he stated that the case was out of his hands and a matter for the judiciary. Human Rights Watch researchers and members of Lambda Istanbul met again with Deputy Governor Mustafa Altintas on May 23, 2008. Paradoxically, in view of the ongoing attempt to close the organization, he affirmed the commitment of the Governorate and its affiliated Provincial Human Rights Board to cooperate with Lambda Istanbul in future projects to promote LGBT people’s rights. “The Turkish authorities must decide whether nongovernmental organizations are fair game for harassment, or full partners in a free society,” said Sinclair-Webb. “Promotion of tolerance and respect for civil society by the Turkish government is key.” In another recent incident, on April 7, 2008, police raided the offices of Lambda Istanbul. The police justified the incursion by claiming the organization “encourages” and “facilitates” prostitution. Turkish authorities have targeted other LGBT organizations as well. In September 2005, the Ankara Governor’s Office accused the Ankara-based group KAOS-GL of “establishing an organization that is against the laws and principles of morality.” Similarly, the Ankara Governor’s Office attempted in July 2006 to close the human rights group Pembe Hayat (Pink Life), which works with transgender people, claiming to prosecutors that the association opposed “morality and family structure.” In both cases, prosecutors dropped the charges. Article 11 of the European Convention on Human Rights, to which Turkey is a party, requires the Turkish authorities, including the judiciary, to protect freedom of association. Any restriction on this right requires convincing and compelling justification. On May 21, 2008, Human Rights Watch presented the 123-page report, “‘We Need a Law for Liberation’: Gender, Sexuality, and Human Rights in a Changing Turkey”. The report documents a long and continuing history of violence and abuse based on sexual orientation and gender identity. The report calls on the EU to monitor respect for LGBT people’s basic rights as a barometer of Turkey’s human rights progress.


--- [lambdaistanbul- ekşi sözlük] ---
lambda istanbul - - (bkz: escinsel danisma hatti) - sloganlari; sen yoksan bir eksigiz , ne yanlis ne yalnizsin - web adresi aşağıdaki gibi olan girişim. http://www.lambdaistanbul.org/ (bkz: ne yanlis ne de yalnizsiniz) (bkz: escinsel sehir rehberi) - kendisini seven arkada$lari tarafindan areels'in de dahil edildigi, geli$melerin kendisinden ogrenilebilecegi olu$um. - (bkz: kaos gl) - (bkz: ne yanlis ne de yalniziz) - lambda'nın 2006 "hormonlu domates" aday listesinde homofobik sözleri/tavırları nedeniyle duman, inanır, alişan gibi adların yanı sıra, şişli emniyet müdürlüğü, ankara ve bursa valiliği, rtük, tsk gibi kurumlar da var. oylama 30 haziran'da sona erecek. (bkz: hormonlu domates onur odulleri) - escinsel onur haftasi etkinlik programi 23 haziran - 2 temmuz 2006 23 haziran cuma 19:30 acilis + yemek mekan: rehberler odası lokali* 24 haziran cumartesi 15:00 sunum: "hinterland" taner ceylan mekan: karakedi kültür merkezi* 25 haziran pazar 15:00 söylesi + film gösterimleri: "travesti ve transseksüellerin yasam hakki" mekan: karakedi kültür merkezi* 26 haziran pazartesi 19:30 sunum: "cinselligin dayanilmaz hafifligi" zeynep günsur mekan: rumeli han - nnaco* 27 haziran sali 20:00 tiyatro: "öteki" (öteki hayatlar tiyatro grubu) mekan: rumeli han - oyuncular kahvesi* 28 haziran çarsamba 19:30 sunum: "rakamlarla yaşadığımız sorunlar" (lambdaistanbul anket sunumu) mekan: t.m.m.o.b.* 29 haziran persembe 20:00 tiyatro: "öteki" (öteki hayatlar tiyatro grubu) mekan: rumeli han - oyuncular kahvesi* 30 haziran cuma 15:00 "lgbtt egitim çalisanlari bulusmasi" mekan: lambdaistanbul kültür merkezi* 19:00 film gösterimi: "yossi ve jagger" mekan: lambdaistanbul kültür merkezi* 22:00 parti mekan: klub karaoke - fetis salonu* 1 temmuz cumartesi 15:00 onur yürüyüsü + "hormonlu domates" ödül töreni** mekan: taksim meydani 18:00 eylem degerlendirmesi ve sohbet mekan: karakedi kültür merkezi 19:00 film gösterimi: stonewall mekan: karakedi kültür merkezi 2 temmuz pazar "piknik" mekan: emirgan korusu* (lambda'dan çikis: 10:00) *etkinlik mekanlarinin adresleri asagidadir. t.m.m.o.b. telefon: 0212 245 03 63-64 fax: 0212 249 86 74 web:www.mmo.org.tr/ e-mail: istanbul@mmo.org.tr adres:katip mustafa çelebi mah. ipek sok. no:13 beyoglu nnaco istiklal cad. rumeli han (aga camii yani) blok:1 kat:5 daire:9 pasaj kapisindan iceri girince merdivenlerden yukari 5 kat cikin (mona lisa cafe ve oyuncular cafe'nin de koldugu blok). daire 9 (kapisinda nnaco yazar) karakedi kültür merkezi istiklal caddesi, büyükparmakkapı sokak, no: 8, hayat apt. kat: 4 (pandora kitabevi'nin karşısı) beyoglu - istanbul tel: 0212-251 62 73 oyuncular kahvesi – cem safran sahnesi adres : istiklal caddesi rumeli han 88/4 kat:2 beyoglu (rebul eczanesi üstü) telefon : 0212 245 13 14 bilet fiyatlari: tam 10 ytl, ögrenci 5 ytl r.o.l. - rehberler odası lokali siraselviler cad. soganci sok. no:7 kat:4 (eski bilsak binası) beyoglu istanbul klub karaoke "fetis salonu" zambak sok. no:15 beyoglu (eski godet, istiklal'e girince ilk sag) http://www.klub-karaoke.com/ not1: yemek, parti ve tiyatro oyunu disindaki etkinlikler ücretsizdir. not2: onur yürüyüsü ve hormonlu domates ödülleri disindaki tüm etkinlikler basina kapalidir. http://www.lambdaistanbul.org/ - yeni mevsime merhaba! lambdaistanbul kültür merkezi sonbahar mevsimine merhaba diyor. yazın rehavetini, sıcağını ve yılgınlığını üzerimizden atmak ve kültür merkezimizde gerçekleşecek yeni etkinliklerin ilk adımını atmak için biraraya geliyoruz. heyecanımızı paylaşmak için sizleri de 8 eylül cuma akşamı lambdaistanbul kültür merkezine bekliyoruz. program: 20.00 film gösterimi "yürüyoruz ..." yönetmen:aykut atasay yapım:boysan yakar / aykut atasay kamera/kurgu/ses: aykut atasay süre 26' 20.30 kokteyl ve eğlence lambdaistanbul lgbtt dayanışma derneği kültür merkezi tel: +90 (0) 212 245 70 68 istiklal caddesi, büyükparmakkapı sokak, halas apt. 20/4 beyoğlu - istanbul http://www.lambdaistanbul.org/ lambda@lambdaistanbul.org ekşi sözlük kullanıcılarıyla mesajlaşmak ve yazdıkları entry'leri takip etmek için giriş yapmalısın. hesabın var mı? giriş yap
