=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[George Avakian - Wikipedia]
Promotional photo of George Avakian for Hot Jazz Classics Series, 1946 George Mesrop Avakian (Armenian: Ջորջ (Գևորգ) Ավագյան; Russian: Геворк Авакян; March 15, 1919 - November 22, 2017) was an American record producer, artist manager, writer, educator and executive. Best known for his work from 1939 to the early 1960s at Decca Records, Columbia Records, World ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/George_Avakian

[Avakian, George, 1919-2017 - Social Networks and Archival Context]
Nov 22, 2017 · In 1948, he was appointed head of the International department, overseeing the production of new foreign recordings, as well as the domestic issue of recordings by foreign subsidiaries. It was through this job that he met and produced Edith Piaf and Charles Aznavour.
URL: https://snaccooperative.org/view/8484742

[Jazz Great George Avakian Honored by Lincoln Center's Performing Arts ...]
By Florence Avakian Special to the Mirror-Spectator NEW YORK — World famous jazz impresario George Avakian was honored at the New York Public Library for the Performing Arts at Lincoln Center in a special tribute on February 18. During his more than 60-year stellar career as a music recording producer, artist manager, writer and educator, Avakian (no relation to this writer), is best known ...
URL: https://mirrorspectator.com/2016/03/10/jazz-great-george-avakian-honored-by-lincoln-centers-performing-arts-library/

[Avakian, George, 1919-2017 - History - Social Networks and ...]
In 1948, he was appointed head of the International department, overseeing the production of new foreign recordings, as well as the domestic issue of recordings by foreign subsidiaries.
URL: https://snaccooperative.org/history/8484742/11595718

[THANKS, MR. AVAKIAN | Simanaitis Says]
THANKS, MR. AVAKIAN ANOTHER THING for which I can be thankful is the life so richly lived by George Avakian, who died November 22, 2017, at age 98 in New York City. Over his long career of recording impresario, Avakian introduced me to the music of Dave Brubeck, Paul Desmond, Erroll Garner, Miles Davis, and even Edith Piaf.
URL: https://simanaitissays.com/2017/11/24/thanks-mr-avakian/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [George Avakian - Wikipedia] ---
George Mesrop Avakian (Armenian: Ջորջ (Գևորգ) Ավագյան; Russian: Геворк Авакян; March 15, 1919 – November 22, 2017) was an American record producer, artist manager, writer, educator and executive. Best known for his work from 1939 to the early 1960s at Decca Records, Columbia Records, World Pacific Records, Warner Bros. Records, and RCA Records, he was a major force in the expansion and development of the U.S. recording industry. Avakian functioned as an independent producer and manager from the 1960s to the early 2000s and worked with artists such as Louis Armstrong, Miles Davis, Duke Ellington, Benny Goodman, Dave Brubeck, Eddie Condon, Keith Jarrett, Erroll Garner, Buck Clayton, Sonny Rollins, Paul Desmond, Edith Piaf, Bob Newhart, Johnny Mathis, John Cage, Alan Hovhaness, Ravi Shankar, and many other notable jazz musicians and composers.


--- [Avakian, George, 1919-2017 - Social Networks and Archival Context] ---
Social Networks and Archival Context Verifying that you are not a bot... please wait. (JavaScript and cookies are required).


--- [Jazz Great George Avakian Honored by Lincoln Center's Performing Arts ...] ---
By Florence Avakian Special to the Mirror-Spectator NEW YORK — World famous jazz impresario George Avakian was honored at the New York Public Library for the Performing Arts at Lincoln Center in a special tribute on February 18. During his more than 60-year stellar career as a music recording producer, artist manager, writer and educator, Avakian (no relation to this writer), is best known for his work with such luminaries as Louis Armstrong, Miles Davis, Duke Ellington, Keith Jarrett, Sonny Rollins, Dave Brubeck, John Cage, Alan Hovhaness, among many other musicians and composers. He was also instrumental in working with acclaimed concert artists violinist Anahid Ajemian (his wife), her sister pianist Maro Ajemian, and the Composers String Quartet. From June 21 to September 24, the Lincoln Center’s Performing Arts Library will present a special exhibition titled, “Music for Moderns – The Partnership of George Avakian and Anahid Ajemian.” The exhibition will highlight their papers (1908-2012), and document their careers and lives through personal and professional correspondence, published and unpublished writings and speeches, scores, clippings, photographs, awards, posters and visual art. On February 18, the legendary producer, now 97, sitting in a wheel chair, with a smiling and virtually wrinkle-free face, was interviewed by special guests Ricky Riccardi and David Ostwald in the Bruno Walter Auditorium, packed with his friends and admirers. Reminiscing with charming anecdotes, Avakian revealed that for his written work on the back of his first album featuring Louis Armstrong, he was paid $10. He recalled that the legendary jazz artist told him “communication is very important,” a piece of wisdom Avakian never forgot. In the 1950s, he produced the artistry of another great, W.C. Handy, the “Father of the Blues,” and shortly after he met an unemployed Fats Waller who soon became lionized.


--- [Avakian, George, 1919-2017 - History - Social Networks and ...] ---
Social Networks and Archival Context Verifying that you are not a bot... please wait. (JavaScript and cookies are required).


--- [THANKS, MR. AVAKIAN | Simanaitis Says] ---
On cars, old, new and future; science & technology; vintage airplanes, computer flight simulation of them; Sherlockiana; our English language; travel; and other stuff ANOTHER THING for which I can be thankful is the life so richly lived by George Avakian, who died November 22, 2017, at age 98 in New York City. Over his long career of recording impresario, Avakian introduced me to the music of Dave Brubeck, Paul Desmond, Erroll Garner, Miles Davis, and even Edith Piaf. George was Russia-born to Armenian parents. The family came to America not long after his birth. During his college days at Yale, George became a published jazz critic with a goal: persuading record companies to reissue music of Louis Armstrong, Duke Ellington, Fletcher Henderson, Benny Goodman, Fats Waller, and others. Indeed, his senior year, George got to interview Goodman for an article in the Horace Mann School Record. While still at Yale, George was hired by Decca Records to produce Chicago Jazz, 1940, which highlighted this city’s jazz scene featuring Eddie Condon and Jimmy McPartland (destined to be the husband of jazz pianist Marion McPartland). In its obituary of Avakian, The New York Times quotes his reminiscence in Down Beat, 2000: “When I saw how much alcohol Eddie Condon and his guys drank and abused his health, I was very alarmed and became convinced they couldn’t possibly live much longer…. They were only in their mid-30s. But I was 20. What did I know about drinking?” Columbia Records, at the time part of CBS, hired Avakian in 1940 to assemble and annotate its jazz reissue series, a first among major record companies. The job was part-time, one day a week for $25, but got him supporting the likes of Louis Armstrong, Bessie Smith, and others. After five years in the U.S. Army, Avakian was hired full-time at Columbia. The New York Times notes that “He was in charge of pop albums and served as a one-man international department, releasing Piaf’s ‘La Vie en Rose’ and other important European records in the United States.” Avakian also played a role in the transition of the record industry from 78-rpm format to 33 1/3 long-play vinyl. The 33 1/3 era dominated until the advent of the CD, another medium in which Avakian was involved during the late 1990s. Avakian taught one of the country’s first academic history courses on jazz, at New York University, in 1948. By bringing Dave Brubeck to Columbia in 1954, he gave California cool a broader audience (leading to Brubeck’s November, 1954, Time magazine cover). Kurt Weill wrote the music for the 1928 Die Driegroschenoper, including the song Die Moritat von Mackie Messer. (There’s a marvelous YouTube of lyricist Bertolt Bretcht singing it in the sinister manner he envisioned.) In 1956, Avakian persuaded Louis Armstrong to cover this classic in English. Armstrong’s “Mack the Knife” became one of his greatest hits. The careers of comic Bob Newhart, the Everly Brothers, and Bill Haley & His Comets were furthered by Avakian-produced recordings. So were careers of American classical composers Alan Hovhaness and John Cage. Avakian’s wife was concert violinist Anahid Ajemian, who predeceased him earlier this year at age 92, after a marriage of 68 years. Thank you, Mr. Avakian, for a life well-lived in bringing the pleasures of music to so many of us. ds © Dennis Simanaitis, SimanaitisSays.com, 2017 My thanks as well. I first encountered Mr. Avakian’s name when I heard the CD reissue of “Louis Armstrong Plays W.C. Handy”, recorded in 1954 when Handy was still alive – I presume that the photo shows them with a tape from the sessions. There’s a 3± minute cut on it of Avakian interviewing Handy, whose voice is one of the most musical things on the record – just marvellous. That CD made me pay attention to Avakian’s name in liner notes and it is amazing how integral he was to the presentation and preservation of music. It also amazed me how I could have missed someone so important for so long. I’d like to thank you for posting this article so that I knew of his passing. Also – 68 years of marriage – that’s impressive. We’re 22 years behind that but, you know, I have my hopes.
