=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Chrome OS Providing Remote Access Via Chromoting - Geeky Gadgets]
Gary Kačmarčík, a software engineer at Google, has confirmed that the Chromoting system does exist but was very scarce with additional details, saying, "With this functionality (unofficially ...
URL: https://www.geeky-gadgets.com/chrome-os-providing-remote-access-via-chromoting-11-06-2010/

[ChromeOS - Wikipedia]
In June 2010, Google's software engineer Gary Kačmarčík wrote that ChromeOS would access remote applications through a technology unofficially called " Chromoting ", which would resemble Microsoft's Remote Desktop Connection. [136]
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ChromeOS

[Google morphs Chrome OS into netbook thin client - The Register]
Exclusive Google's Chrome OS — the operating system that moves all apps and data into a web browser — will provide remote access to "legacy PC applications" through a mystery process the company calls Chromoting, according to an email from a Google employee. In a message posted by a third party to a public mailing list dedicated to the as-yet-unreleased Chrome OS, Google software engineer ...
URL: https://www.theregister.com/2010/06/09/google_to_include_remote_access_in_chrome_os/

[Chromoting - Google Groups]
With this functionality (unofficially named "chromoting"), Chrome OS will not only be great platform for running modern web apps, but will also enable you to access legacy PC applications right within the browser.
URL: https://groups.google.com/a/chromium.org/g/chromium-discuss/c/ZzrUQdDLZK4

[Chrome OS to support "legacy PC apps" via remote access]
The technique is being unofficially called "chromoting" - a mix of the words "Chrome" and "Remoting". Google engineer Gary Kačmarčík confirmed the remote access bit although he wouldn't share ...
URL: https://www.techspot.com/news/39291-chrome-os-to-support-legacy-pc-apps-via-remote-access.html


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Chrome OS Providing Remote Access Via Chromoting - Geeky Gadgets] ---
The highly anticipated Chrome operating system is expected to be launched at the end of the year. It may be able to provide you with remote access to “legacy PC applications” through a new process called Chromoting, according to a Google employee. Gary Kačmarčík, a software engineer at Google, has confirmed that the Chromoting system does exist but was very scarce with additional details, saying, “With this functionality (unofficially named ‘chromoting’), Chrome OS will not only be [a] great platform for running modern web apps, but will also enable you to access legacy PC applications right within the browser.” What is Chromoting? From the details provided, Chromoting is similar to a remote desktop connection, which will probably allow you to access applications running on other computers. This is similar to currently available applications like LogMeIn and GoToMyPC. These services enable users to remotely control another computer over the internet, providing access to files, applications, and network resources as if they were physically present at the remote location. Chromoting aims to integrate this functionality directly into the Chrome OS, making it a seamless experience for users. This could be particularly beneficial for businesses and educational institutions that rely on legacy software that may not have web-based alternatives. By using Chromoting, they can continue to use their essential applications without needing to maintain separate hardware or operating systems. Potential Benefits and Use Cases The integration of Chromoting into Chrome OS could offer several significant benefits: 1. Cost Savings: Organizations can save on hardware costs by using Chromebooks instead of more expensive PCs. Chromebooks are generally more affordable and easier to maintain. 2. Simplified IT Management: With Chromoting, IT departments can manage fewer devices and operating systems. This can lead to reduced complexity and lower support costs. 3. Enhanced Security: Chrome OS is known for its robust security features, including automatic updates and sandboxing. By accessing legacy applications through Chromoting, users can benefit from these security measures while still using their essential software. 4. Flexibility and Mobility: Users can access their legacy applications from anywhere with an internet connection. This is particularly useful for remote work and telecommuting, which have become increasingly common. For example, a graphic designer who relies on a specific version of Adobe Photoshop that is not available as a web app could use Chromoting to access the software on a remote PC. Similarly, a financial analyst who needs to use a specialized accounting program could do so through Chromoting, without needing to install the software on their Chromebook. In addition to these benefits, Chromoting could also pave the way for more innovative uses of Chrome OS. Developers might create new web apps that leverage the remote access capabilities, offering hybrid solutions that combine the best of both web-based and legacy software. Via The Register Disclosure: Some of our articles include affiliate links. If you buy something through one of these links, Geeky Gadgets may earn an affiliate commission. Learn about our Disclosure Policy.


--- [ChromeOS - Wikipedia] ---
ChromeOS (sometimes styled as chromeOS and formerly styled as Chrome OS) is a proprietary operating system designed and developed by Google. It is derived from the open-source ChromiumOS operating system (which itself is derived from Gentoo Linux), and uses the Google Chrome web browser as its principal user interface. 
Google announced the project in July 2009, initially describing it as an operating system where applications and user data would reside in the cloud. ChromeOS was used primarily to run web applications. The operating system first shipped with Chromebooks in 2011. It is also offered since 2020 as an installable Linux distribution as ChromeOS Flex.
ChromeOS supports progressive web applications, Android apps from Google Play and Linux applications.
In 2025, Google announced that ChromeOS will be merged into Android as part of a project called AluminiumOS, with the new project using the Android kernel rather than the older "vanilla" Linux kernel based on Gentoo.




--- [Google morphs Chrome OS into netbook thin client - The Register] ---
This article is more than 1 year old Google morphs Chrome OS into netbook thin client 'Chromotes' legacy PC apps inside browser Exclusive Google's Chrome OS — the operating system that moves all apps and data into a web browser — will provide remote access to "legacy PC applications" through a mystery process the company calls Chromoting, according to an email from a Google employee. In a message posted by a third party to a public mailing list dedicated to the as-yet-unreleased Chrome OS, Google software engineer Gary Kačmarčík confirms the existence of Chromoting but gives few details. "We're adding new capabilities all the time," the email reads. "With this functionality (unofficially named 'chromoting'), Chrome OS will not only be [a] great platform for running modern web apps, but will also enable you to access legacy PC applications right within the browser." Kačmarčík calls this an "official" statement. Neither Google nor Gary Kačmarčík has responded to requests for comment. According to his LinkedIn profile, Kačmarčík is a former Microsoft software design engineer. He's been at Google since 2006, and he works in the greater Seattle, Washington area, near Microsoft headquarters. In the email, Kačmarčík says that Chromoting is "something like" Remote Desktop Connection, the Microsoft Windows service that gives you real-time access to distant PCs. Presumably, this means that Chrome OS will let you access applications running on your existing Windows, Linux, or Mac desktop. But in his email, Kačmarčík declined to elaborate. Chrome OS is essentially Google's Chrome web browser running atop a Goobuntu flavor of Linux. It will not run local applications other than the browser itself. All other apps will be accessed inside the browser, and this would now seem to include applications running on remote machines. The OS is not due for official release until the end of the year, when it will debut on netbooks. Last fall, however, Google released a snapshot of code under the aegis of the Chromium OS project, and Kačmarčík's email was posted to the Chromium discussion list by a non-Google developer. Chromium OS source code includes references to a "chromoting plug-in," and Kačmarčík mentions chromoting code during recent Chromimum IRC discussions. Accessing remote applications via a web browser is nothing new. Applications like LogMeIn and GoToMyPC have offered this sort of thing for a decade. With these services, you install a small client on your desktop PC or Mac, and once you do, you can drive that machine's operating system — including applications — from a web browser running on a separate system. In order to access your remote desktop, you must also download a small client alongside your browser. But this is a tiny piece of code. Typically, it can be downloaded in a matter of seconds. Presumably, Google will include this sort of mini-client with Chrome OS as a plug-in, and you'll then download a larger client on your existing desktop PC in order to access its applications. Yes, this is a roundabout way of running desktop apps. But with Chrome OS, Google is intent on keeping everything inside the browser. According to Google, this is partly an effort to improve system security, but the company also has a financial interest in moving more activity and more data onto the net: more web activity means more web ads, and more web data stored on Google servers means more targeted ads. Last month, the company announced that would allow printing from the OS by routing jobs through its servers and back down to desktop PCs that, unlike Chrome OS, run print drivers. Some might call this progress. Others might call it forcing the issue. But we know where Google stands. Notice that Kačmarčík dubbed them "legacy PC applications". ®


--- [Chromoting - Google Groups] ---
Our "official" statement at the moment is:"We're adding new capabilities all the time. With this functionality (unofficially named "chromoting"), Chrome OS will not only be great platform for running modern web apps, but will also enable you to access legacy PC applications right within the browser. We'll have more details to share on chromoting in the coming months." On Tue, Jun 8, 2010 at 2:02 AM, PhistucK <phis...@gmail.com> wrote:Since you are being quiet about it, I just want to understand - is Chromoting something like Remote Desktop Connection? Yes. "something like..." Can you spare some more details regarding this component? use cases, platform support? Sadly, not right now. We'll have more info later.-Gary -- Chromium Discussion mailing list: chromium...@chromium.org View archives, change email options, or unsubscribe: http://groups.google.com/a/chromium.org/group/chromium-discuss Virtual machines run pretty quickly on my computer, and I just have an AMD Athlon 64 X2 3600+ 2GHz processor, and an old GeForce 7100 graphics card. Even without video acceleration (in the VM) it runs reasonably fast, but with it it's almost as if it's native (if I had more memory, it would probably be the same as native. Only have 1.5GB, atm). Since they're coming out with processors that have more cores now, and since almost all AMD am2 and later processors have hardware virtualization (I hear it's iffy on Intel's side, though... which ones have it, that is), it shouldn't be a problem even if you have a laptop (in the future, at least). That said, you're still free to choose whether you want to leave your laptop running or not. I probably wouldn't, either.


--- [Chrome OS to support "legacy PC apps" via remote access] ---
Google's upcoming operating system is designed around the cloud, powered by web-based applications running on the browser rather than traditional software installed locally on your computer. While this is an interesting and forward-thinking approach to computing, it's also very restrictive and could very well prevent Chrome OS' from gaining any real traction. According to a message posted in the Chromium discussion group, however, a workaround might be in the works. It's still unclear exactly how it will work, but basically it appears as if Google is developing a feature which would allow you to control "legacy PC applications" running on other computers from within the browser itself. The technique is being unofficially called "chromoting" – a mix of the words "Chrome" and "Remoting". Google engineer Gary Kačmarčík confirmed the remote access bit although he wouldn't share any firm details until "the coming months." So far two possibilities for how 'chromoting' might work have been suggested on numerous sites. The most likely scenario is that it offers a web-based remote desktop client, allowing users to log in to their home PC and access applications there. Alternatively, Google could offer a more elaborate service, letting users run software directly on its servers for a fee. Obviously, such remote access tools are nothing new – Citrix and others have been offering similar functionality for years. But it's still interesting to see Google building this into Chrome OS and we're curious to know just how easy to use and well-integrated with the browser it will be.
