=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[UC 67 - German and Austrian U-boats of World War One - Kaiserliche ...]
The U-boat War in World War Two (Kriegsmarine, 1939-1945) and World War One (Kaiserliche Marine, 1914-1918) and the Allied efforts to counter the threat. Over 40.000 pages on the officers, the boats, technology and the Allied efforts to counter the U-boat threat.
URL: https://uboat.net/wwi/boats/index.html?boat=UC+67

[SM UC-67 - Wikipedia]
SM UC-67 was a German Type UC II minelaying submarine or U-boat in the German Imperial Navy (German: Kaiserliche Marine) during World War I. The U-boat was ordered on 12 January 1916 and was launched on 6 August 1916.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SM_UC-67

[Martin Niemöller (1892-1984) - Find a Grave Memorial]
He was assigned to the submarine service, where in August 1917 he became executive officer of U-151, which set a record of 55,000 tons of ships sunk in 151 days. He then became commanding officer of UC-67, where he served until war's end. He received the Iron Cross First Class for his service.
URL: https://www.findagrave.com/memorial/95024185/martin-niem%C3%B6ller

[SM UC-67 | Military Wiki | Fandom]
SM UC-67 was a German Type UC II minelaying submarine or U-boat in the German Imperial Navy (German language: Kaiserliche Marine) during World War I. The U-boat was ordered on 12 January 1916 and was launched on 6 August 1916.
URL: https://military-history.fandom.com/wiki/SM_UC-67

[Karl Dönitz]
Karl Dönitz was a German naval officer and politician who, following the suicide of Adolf Hitler during the Second World War in April 1945, succeeded him as ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Karl_D%C3%B6nitz


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [UC 67 - German and Austrian U-boats of World War One - Kaiserliche ...] ---
WWI U-boats UC 67 | Type | UC II | |||||| | Shipyard | Blohm & Voss, Hamburg (Werk 283) | |||||| | Ordered | 12 Jan 1916 | |||||| | Launched | 6 Aug 1916 | |||||| | Commissioned | 10 Dec 1916 | |||||| | Commanders | | |||||| | Career | 11 patrols | |||||| | ||||||| | Successes | 52 ships sunk with a total of 93,286 tons. 3 ships damaged with a total of 8,249 tons. 1 ship sunk with a total of 0 tons. 1 warship sunk with a total of 834 tons. (View ships hit by UC 67) | |||||| | Fate | 16 Jan 1919 - Surrendered. Broken up at Briton Ferry in 1919-20.. | Media links | As an Amazon Associate uboat.net earns a commission from qualifying purchases.


--- [SM UC-67 - Wikipedia] ---
SM UC-67 was a German Type UC II minelaying submarine or U-boat in the German Imperial Navy (German: Kaiserliche Marine) during World War I. The U-boat was ordered on 12 January 1916 and was launched on 6 August 1916. She was commissioned into the German Imperial Navy on 10 December 1916 as SM UC-67. In eleven patrols UC-67 was credited with sinking 54 ships, either by torpedo or by mines laid. UC-67 was surrendered on 16 January 1919 and broken up at Briton Ferry in 1919 – 20.


--- [Martin Niemöller (1892-1984) - Find a Grave Memorial] ---
Christian Pastor and Resistance Figure. Born a pastor's son in a conservative family, he first joined the Navy after passing his school leaving exams (Abitur). He was assigned to the submarine service, where in August 1917 he became executive officer of U-151, which set a record of 55,000 tons of ships sunk in 151 days. He then became commanding officer of UC-67, where he served until war's end. He received the Iron Cross First Class for his service. Due to his conservative opposition to the Weimar Republic, he left the navy in 1919 and decided to become a pastor rather than become a farmer. He studied Lutheran theology from 1919 to 1923 at the University of Münster. During this time he served as a Freikorps commander during a revolt in that city. He was ordained in 1924 and became pastor of the Church of the Redeemer in Münster. In 1932 he was given the pastorate of the Lutheran church in Dahlem, a Berlin suburb, where he became friends with future German Field Marshal Model. When the Nazis took power he was at first in favor, as he thought they would bring a return to conservatism. But he stood directly opposed to the "Aryan Paragraph" (1933) as inimical to Christianity. He did at first try to form a compromise with the so-called "German Christians", but then formed with Barth and Bonhoeffer the Confessing Church in 1934 in opposition to the Nazi-controlled "German Church". He was arrested in 1937 and was released after his trial as he had already served more time than the sentence given him. But, likely on order of Rudolf Hess, he was rearrested almost immediately and spent the war interned in Sachsenhausen and Dachau concentration camps until war's end in 1945. The time in prison changed him. He had been anti-Semitic, but his experiences gave him a great compassion for people of all walks and beliefs. He was one of the leaders of the group that wrote the Stuttgart Declaration of Guilt in October 1945, where the Church confessed that they had not done enough to resist the Nazis. From 1947 to 1961, he was head of the Protestant Church of Hesse and Nassau. After a meeting with Otto Hahn in 1954, he became a strong pacifist and anti-nuclear activist. He opposed the Vietnam war, visited with Ho Che Minh. He was elected president of the World Council of Churches in 1961. Among his many awards were the Order of Merit of the Federal Republic of Germany, the 1966 Lenin Peace Prize, the East German Peace Medal, and the Albert Schweitzer Peace Medal and a number of honorary doctorates from world universities. He has had many streets, schools, and places named after him, and the German Post Office issued a stamp on his 100th birthday in 1992. His most famous quote is "First they came for the Socialists, and I did not speak out...because I was not a Socialist. Then they came for the Trade Unionists, and I did not speak out...because I was not a Trade Unionist. Then they came for the Jews, and I did not speak out..because I was not a Jew. Then they came for me—and there was no one left to speak for me." Christian Pastor and Resistance Figure. Born a pastor's son in a conservative family, he first joined the Navy after passing his school leaving exams (Abitur). He was assigned to the submarine service, where in August 1917 he became executive officer of U-151, which set a record of 55,000 tons of ships sunk in 151 days. He then became commanding officer of UC-67, where he served until war's end. He received the Iron Cross First Class for his service. Due to his conservative opposition to the Weimar Republic, he left the navy in 1919 and decided to become a pastor rather than become a farmer. He studied Lutheran theology from 1919 to 1923 at the University of Münster. During this time he served as a Freikorps commander during a revolt in that city. He was ordained in 1924 and became pastor of the Church of the Redeemer in Münster. In 1932 he was given the pastorate of the Lutheran church in Dahlem, a Berlin suburb, where he became friends with future German Field Marshal Model. When the Nazis took power he was at first in favor, as he thought they would bring a return to conservatism. But he stood directly opposed to the "Aryan Paragraph" (1933) as inimical to Christianity. He did at first try to form a compromise with the so-called "German Christians", but then formed with Barth and Bonhoeffer the Confessing Church in 1934 in opposition to the Nazi-controlled "German Church". He was arrested in 1937 and was released after his trial as he had already served more time than the sentence given him. But, likely on order of Rudolf Hess, he was rearrested almost immediately and spent the war interned in Sachsenhausen and Dachau concentration camps until war's end in 1945. The time in prison changed him. He had been anti-Semitic, but his experiences gave him a great compassion for people of all walks and beliefs. He was one of the leaders of the group that wrote the Stuttgart Declaration of Guilt in October 1945, where the Church confessed that they had not done enough to resist the Nazis. From 1947 to 1961, he was head of the Protestant Church of Hesse and Nassau. After a meeting with Otto Hahn in 1954, he became a strong pacifist and anti-nuclear activist. He opposed the Vietnam war, visited with Ho Che Minh. He was elected president of the World Council of Churches in 1961. Among his many awards were the Order of Merit of the Federal Republic of Germany, the 1966 Lenin Peace Prize, the East German Peace Medal, and the Albert Schweitzer Peace Medal and a number of honorary doctorates from world universities. He has had many streets, schools, and places named after him, and the German Post Office issued a stamp on his 100th birthday in 1992. His most famous quote is "First they came for the Socialists, and I did not speak out...because I was not a Socialist. Then they came for the Trade Unionists, and I did not speak out...because I was not a Trade Unionist. Then they came for the Jews, and I did not speak out..because I was not a Jew. Then they came for me—and there was no one left to speak for me." Find a Grave, database and images (https://www.findagrave.com/memorial/95024185/martin-niem%C3%B6ller: accessed ), memorial page for Martin Niemöller (14 Jan 1892–6 Mar 1984), Find a Grave Memorial ID 95024185, citing Alter Evangelischer Friedhof Wersen, Wersen, Kreis Steinfurt, Nordrhein-Westfalen, Germany; Maintained by Find a Grave. Add Photos for Martin Niemöller Fulfill Photo Request for Martin Niemöller Photo Request Fulfilled Thank you for fulfilling this photo request. An email has been sent to the person who requested the photo informing them that you have fulfilled their request There is an open photo request for this memorial Are you adding a grave photo that will fulfill this request? Oops, some error occurred while uploading your photo(s). Oops, something didn't work. Close this window, and upload the photo(s) again. Make sure that the file is a photo. Photos larger than 8 MB will be reduced. Photos larger than 20 MB will not be accepted. All photos uploaded successfully, click on the <b>Done button</b> to see the photos in the gallery. General photo guidelines: Photos larger than 8.0 MB will be optimized and reduced. Photos larger than 20 MB will not be accepted. Each contributor can upload a maximum of 5 photos for a memorial. A memorial can have a maximum of 20 photos from all contributors. The sponsor of a memorial may add an additional 10 photos (for a total of 30 on the memorial). Include gps location with grave photos where possible. No animated GIFs, photos with additional graphics (borders, embellishments.) This memorial already has a grave photo. Please indicate why you think it needs another. There is no plot information for this memorial. Your photo request is more likely to be fulfilled if you contact the cemetery to get the plot information and include it with your request. You are only allowed to leave one flower per day for any given memorial. Memorial Photos This is a carousel with slides. Use Next and Previous buttons to navigate, or jump to a slide with the slide dots. Use Escape keyboard button or the Close button to close the carousel. Quickly see who the memorial is for and when they lived and died and where they are buried. Show Map If the memorial includes GPS coordinates, simply click 'Show Map' to view the gravesite location within the cemetery. If no GPS coordinates are available, you can contribute by adding them if you know the precise location. Photos For memorials with more than one photo, additional photos will appear here or on the photos tab. Photos Tab All photos appear on this tab and here you can update the sort order of photos on memorials you manage. To view a photo in more detail or edit captions for photos you added, click the photo to open the photo viewer. Flowers Flowers added to the memorial appear on the bottom of the memorial or here on the Flowers tab. To add a flower, click the Leave a Flower button. Family Members Family members linked to this person will appear here. Related searches Use the links under See more… to quickly search for other people with the same last name in the same cemetery, city, county, etc. Sponsor This Memorial Remove advertising from a memorial by sponsoring it for <strong>just $10</strong>. Previously sponsored memorials or famous memorials will not have this option. Share Share this memorial using social media sites or email. Save to Save to an Ancestry Tree, a virtual cemetery, your clipboard for pasting or Print. Edit or Suggest Edit Edit a memorial you manage or suggest changes to the memorial manager. Have Feedback Thanks for using Find a Grave, if you have any feedback we would love to hear from you. This photo is larger than 20 MB. Please resize to less than 20 MB and try again. You may not upload any more photos to this memorial There was a problem uploading this image "Unsupported file type" Uploading... Waiting... Success Failed Duplicate photo Not image owner Photo status will not allow linking This photo has already been added to this memorial This photo was not uploaded because this memorial already has photos This photo was not uploaded because you have already uploaded photos to this memorial This photo was not uploaded because this memorial already has photos This photo was not uploaded because you have already uploaded photos to this memorial Invalid File Type Uploading 1 Photo Uploading 2 Photos 1 Photo Uploaded 2 Photos Uploaded Added by GREAT NEWS! There is 1 volunteer for this cemetery. Sorry! There are no volunteers for this cemetery. Continuing with this request will add an alert to the cemetery page and any new volunteers will have the opportunity to fulfill your request. Enter numeric value Enter memorial Id Year should not be greater than current year Invalid memorial Duplicate entry for memorial You have chosen this person to be their own family member. Reported! This relationship is not possible based on lifespan dates. 0% Complete Saved Sign in or Register Sign in to Find a Grave Sign-in to link to existing account There is a problem with your email/password. There is a problem with your email/password. There is a problem with your email/password. We encountered an unknown problem. Please wait a few minutes and try again. If the problem persists contact Find a Grave. We’ve updated the security on the site. Please reset your password. Your account has been locked for 30 minutes due to too many failed sign in attempts. Please contact Find a Grave at [email protected] if you need help resetting your password. This account has been disabled. If you have questions, please contact [email protected] This account has been disabled. If you have questions, please contact [email protected] Email not found Please complete the captcha to let us know you are a real person. Sign in to your existing Find a Grave account. You’ll only have to do this once—after your accounts are connected, you can sign in using your Ancestry sign in or your Find a Grave sign in. We found an existing Find a Grave account associated with your email address. Sign in below with your Find a Grave credentials to link your Ancestry account. After your accounts are connected you can sign in using either account. Please enter your email to sign in. Please enter your password to sign in. Please enter your email and password to sign in. There is a problem with your email/password. A system error has occurred. Please try again later. A password reset email has been sent to EmailID. If you don't see an email, please check your spam folder. We encountered an unknown problem. Please wait a few minutes and try again. If the problem persists contact Find a Grave. Password Reset Please enter your email address and we will send you an email with a reset password code. or Registration Options Welcome to Find a Grave Create your free account by choosing an option below. or Ancestry account link To create your account, Ancestry will share your name and email address with Find a Grave. To continue choose an option below. or If you already have a Find a Grave account, please sign in to link to Ancestry®. New Member Registration Email is mandatory Email and Password are mandatory This account already exists, but the email address still needs to be confirmed. Resend Activation Email Your password is not strong enough Invalid Email You must agree to Terms and Conditions Account already exists Please check the I'm not a robot checkbox Internal Server error occurred If you want to be a Photo Volunteer you must enter a ZIP Code or select your location on the map You must select an email preference We have sent you an activation email Your new password must contain one or more uppercase and lowercase letters, and one or more numbers or special characters. We just emailed an activation code to Please check your email and click on the link to activate your account. cemeteries found in will be saved to your photo volunteer list. cemeteries found within miles of your location will be saved to your photo volunteer list. cemeteries found within kilometers of your location will be saved to your photo volunteer list. Within 5 miles of your location. Within 5 kilometers of your location. 0 cemeteries found in . 0 cemeteries found. Add a cemetery to fulfill photo requests You can customize the cemeteries you volunteer for by selecting or deselecting below. Search above to list available cemeteries. Getting location… Loading... Loading... No cemeteries found Find a Grave Video Tutorials Default Language Translation on Find a Grave is an ongoing project. If you notice a problem with the translation, please send a message to [email protected] and include a link to the page and details about the problem. Thanks for your help! Preferred Language We have set your language to English based on information from your browser. You can choose another language below: Welcome Back! Thanks for signing in. Your account will not be marked as inactive. To make any adjustments to your photo volunteering settings, notification settings, and more, visit your Account Settings. Learn more about your account and how you can help and contribute at Find a Grave. Your account has been reactivated. To make any adjustments to your photo volunteering settings, notification settings, and more, visit your Account Settings. Learn more about your account and how you can help and contribute at Find a Grave here . To make any adjustments to your photo volunteering settings, notification settings, and more, visit your Account Settings. Learn more about your account and how you can help and contribute at Find a Grave here . Sign out successful Return to the email you received and click on the link to contact us.


--- [SM UC-67 | Military Wiki | Fandom] ---
No content


--- [Karl Dönitz] ---
Karl Dönitz (German: [ˈdøːnɪts] ; 16 September 1891 – 24 December 1980) was a German naval officer and politician who, following the suicide of Adolf Hitler during the Second World War in April 1945, succeeded him as head of state of Germany during the Nazi era. He held the position until the dissolution of the Flensburg Government following Germany's unconditional surrender to the Allies weeks later. As Supreme Commander of the Navy beginning in 1943, he played a major role in the naval history of the war.
He began his career in the Imperial German Navy before the First World War. In 1918 he was commanding UB-68, and was captured as a prisoner of war by British forces. As commander of UB-68, he attacked a convoy in the Mediterranean while on patrol near Malta. Sinking one ship before the rest of the convoy outran his U-boat, Dönitz began to formulate the concept of U-boats operating in attack groups Rudeltaktik (German for "pack tactic", commonly called a "wolfpack") for greater efficiency, rather than operating independently.
By the start of the Second World War, Dönitz was supreme commander of the Kriegsmarine's U-boat arm (Befehlshaber der U-Boote [BdU]). In January 1943 he achieved the rank of Großadmiral (grand admiral) and replaced Grand Admiral Erich Raeder as Commander-in-Chief of the Navy. He was the main enemy of Allied naval forces in the Battle of the Atlantic. From 1939 to 1943 the U-boats fought effectively but lost the initiative from May 1943. He ordered his submarines into battle until 1945 to relieve the pressure on other branches of the Wehrmacht (armed forces). 648 U-boats were lost—429 with no survivors. Furthermore, of these, 215 were lost on their first patrol. Around 30,000 of the 40,000 men who served in U-boats perished.
On 30 April 1945, following the suicide of Adolf Hitler and in accordance with his last will and testament, Dönitz was named Hitler's successor as head of state in what became known as the Goebbels cabinet after his second-in-command, Joseph Goebbels, until Goebbels's suicide led to Dönitz's cabinet being reformed into the Flensburg Government instead. On 7 May 1945, he ordered Alfred Jodl, Chief of Operations Staff of the Armed Forces High Command (German: Oberkommando der Wehrmacht (OKW)), to sign the German Instrument of Surrender in Reims, France, formally ending the War in Europe. Dönitz remained as head of state with the titles of President of Germany and Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces until his cabinet was dissolved by the Allied powers on 23 May de facto and on 5 June de jure.
By his own admission, Dönitz was a dedicated Nazi and supporter of Hitler. Following the war, he was indicted as a major war criminal at the Nuremberg trials on three counts: conspiracy to commit crimes against peace, war crimes, and crimes against humanity; planning, initiating, and waging wars of aggression; and crimes against the laws of war. He was found not guilty of committing crimes against humanity, but guilty of committing crimes against peace and war crimes against the laws of war. He was sentenced to ten years' imprisonment; following his release, he lived in a village near Hamburg until his death in late December 1980.
