=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Welcome to Jumbo Circus / Legacy]
In 1882 Barnum approached the Secretary and bought the elephant for $ 10,000 He was given a month's time to take away the elephant. The sale of the elephant was big news and the British media came out against this.
URL: https://jumbocircus.co.in/Legacy.htm

[The circus is in town - The New Indian Express]
Jan 11, 2018 · The Great Indian Circus The first circus tent was pitched in the country 138 years ago, in 1880 at Maharashtra. It was called Vishnupant Chatre’s Great Indian Circus.
URL: https://www.newindianexpress.com/cities/chennai/2018/jan/10/the-circus-is-in-town-1750271.html

[Odyssey on a pen: Circus: Behind the glitter]
Feb 7, 2010 · The entire delegation was given diplomatic visas by the Govt. of India. Shankaran was also a partner in Apollo, Vahini and Grand Jumbo Circus. He started the Jumbo Circus on Oct. 2, 1977. During the year 1953, T.K. Kunhikkanan and K.S. Menon joined the Gemini circus as partners. After two years, K.S. Menon left and started his own circus.
URL: https://odysseyonapen.blogspot.com/2010/02/circus-behind-glitter.html

[Gemini and Jumbo circus founder MV Shankaran passes away]
Apr 24, 2023 · Gemini was founded on Independence Day in 1951 by Shankaran and K Sahadevan. The circus troupe became so successful that Shankaran led a team that represented India at the World Circus Festival in ...
URL: https://www.thenewsminute.com/kerala/gemini-and-jumbo-circus-founder-mv-shankaran-passes-away-176312

[Circus brings thrilling novelty acts to Tiruchi - The Hindu]
Dec 26, 2025 · Discover thrilling acts and family fun at Jumbo Circus in Tiruchi, entertaining visitors with unique performances this winter.
URL: https://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Tiruchirapalli/circus-brings-thrilling-novelty-acts-to-tiruchi/article70440023.ece


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Welcome to Jumbo Circus / Legacy] ---
Mayhem! uncontrollable crowds! Everyone wanted to see the Gemini Circus, at Park Circ us in Calcutta.Tickets were booked three weeks in advance. Badnasheel, a businessman based in Calcutta, was inspired on seeing the massive crowd and huge collections this circus was enjoying during their Dussehra shows. He commenced the Rayon circus in 1976 with a huge investment. He couldn’t run the circus for more than six months. It faced closure and still he continued to feed the employees and animals. He approached M.V.Shankaran and beseeched him to helphim in this crisis. M.V.S was moved on seeing the pitiable situation of the employees and animals. They were on the fringes of life, with death staring in their faces. During that critical period M.V.Shankaran bought this circus. He was inspired by the Jumbo Jet which was newly introduced during that period. Thus was born the Jumbo Circus. The first show was inaugurated by Brigadier Pathania, at Dhanapur in Bihar on October 2nd 1977. The original Jumbo was a very large African elephant born in 1861. He was captured and later imported by a Paris Zoo. He was transferred to the London Zoo in 1865. He was kept at the Royal Zoological Society. Because of its extraordinary size it became the pride of England. P.T.Barnum wanted to own this elephant. He adopted a cunning method to fulfil this objective. The Director of the London Zoological Society was influenced by Barnum. The Director warned the Zoological Society Secretary that the elephant was likely to have rut, and it would be difficult to control. The pleasure rides on the elephant were cancelled and he was confined to a well-guarded place for better security. In 1882 Barnum approached the Secretary and bought the elephant for $ 10,000 He was given a month’s time to take away the elephant. The sale of the elephant was big news and the British media came out against this. They felt that the elephant was as much a treasure as the house of William Shakespeare. One lakh school children wrote to Queen Victoria not to allow Jumbo to be taken away to USA. But the final verdict in the Court was in favour of Barnum and thus Jumbo became a part of Barnum and Bailey Circus. Jumbo was eleven feet tall and weighed about seven ton. His enormous size alone was enough and so he didn’t do any tricks. He just walked around the ring in front of the audience. He alone was rested as an exclusive parade animal. He was given royal treatment as he travelled around North America in a special red and gold train car. Barnum made huge profits by exhibiting this elephant. Jumbo’s image was used to advertise products like threads, baking powder and laxatives. Jumbo even became the name of a colour that was known as Elephant grey. In 1885 Jumbo was accidentally struck by a freight train. Barnum claimed that he had lost his life trying to save a tiny elephant. A story which brought tears to millions of Jumbo lovers. A media hype was created and so eventually the skeleton was given to the American Museum in NewYork city. Meanwhile the word Jumbo lives on, used to describe anything larger than average size. |


--- [The circus is in town - The New Indian Express] ---
CHENNAI: If you are still hung-over from watching the flashy musical, The Greatest Showman (of course PT Barnum isn't the hero the movie wants you to think), and would kill to watch a good show of flying trapeze, aerial and motorcycle acts in the city, head to the SIAA ground in Periyampet, where the famous Jumbo Circus has pitched its multi-coloured tent. Talk a walk across the vibrant flex banners of artistes on the carpeted path, a grille gate entrance will lead you to a massive tent where rings, a huge globe, ropes, cycles and other props are stationed with a banner ‘Jumbo Circus’. As the artistes rehearse, stretch and gear up for their shows for the day, we take a peek into their lives — from early morning rehearsals, glitzy clothes, gravity defying acts, and stories of stardom to what happens behind the show tent. History Inspired by the Jumbo Jet which was newly introduced during the 70s, MV Shankaran (founder of Gemini Circus) founded the Jumbo Circus. The first show was inaugurated by Brigadier Pathania at Dhanapur in Bihar on October 2, 1977. The Great Indian Circus The first circus tent was pitched in the country 138 years ago, in 1880 at Maharashtra. It was called Vishnupant Chatre’s Great Indian Circus. Since then, the country has showed a strong presence in the showbiz industry until the ban of wild animals from circuses. “There has been a decline in the number of people who visit circuses because of the absence of animals. This is one of the reasons we had to rope in international artistes for our shows,” says Shivanand, manager, Jumbo Circus. Cradle Of Indian Circus — Thalassery Thalassery, a coastal town in North Kerala, used to be the training ground for circus artistes. The circus artistes who are active and practicing now started training at a very young age — as young as three and four. “The government has ordered that no one below the age of 18 should be trained. How can new artistes come up? At this rate, the future of circus looks very bleak,” rues Shivanand. From Circus To Reality Tanya and Mukesh were one of top contenders of the reality show, India’s Got Talent season 4. But, they trace their roots back to circus. “I am from Jharkhand and Tanya is from Kolkatha. I was part of Gemini Circus for a while before I joined Jumbo,” shares Mukesh, the star performer at the circus. Tanya climbs the silk rope with ease, swirls and slides down, making her one of the best aerial artistes in the country. “I have been in the circus since I was four or five years old. Though the facilities are much better when we do reality shows, we come back to circus when the owner calls us. This is where we learnt the art. We will always come back,” smiles Tanya as she heads to her tent. “She has also done acts along with elephants and parrots when she was a child. She has told me stories of that! While reality shows have given us recognition, circus is our playground. We love to be here. Where else do you get such a massive space to perform?” asks Mukesh. Home Away From Home A striped blue compound separates the tents of the female artistes from the rest. As they begin to enter the show tent to rehearse, we talk to Ajeesha, an artiste from Kannur, who has been part of Jumbo Circus for 15 years. “My brother was also into it. Now he works at Kannur,” says the trapeze artiste as Urmila and Soni, pull her away for rehearsals. They share a special camaraderie and that makes the circus a home for most of them. “We meet our family only after a year or two. We stay there for a month before we head to the next destination. Yes, we miss them, but, we have each other. We push and motivate each other,” smiles Urmila, an artiste from Bengal, looking at her ‘gal pals’. ‘Women Are Treated Well’ While there’s a common notion that women artistes aren’t treated well in circuses, the women here dismiss that. “It’s the society outside of this circus that does not respect us. When I say that ‘I am a circus artiste’, people frown and disapprove. There is a lack of awareness about the life of a circus artiste. No one wants to know,” rues Urmila. Concurring, Mukesh says, “I have travelled to other countries for shows as well. Circus artistes are given the status of movie stars there while here, no one knows you exist! The artistes and the circus company need support from the government.” Art Beyond Borders Artistes from countries like Kenya, Ethiopia and Mongolia, Tanzania and Russia have become the central attraction of many companies today. Anthoni (Tanzania), Zakaria Hagos and Ashenfi (Ethiopia) are ‘partners in crime’ in the troupe. “Ashenfi and I have known each other for three years. We used to work and perform together as part of the same group back in our place. We met Anthoni here four months back. I love rehearsing with him, he’s a fitness enthusiast!” laughs 26-year-old Zakaria. Nodding his head, Anthoni says, “I have to be fit...otherwise how will I lift the 60 kg kettle-bells with my hand and mouth,” he grins. With nine years of experience, Anthoni used to be part of different circuses along with a bigger group from Tanzania and now he travels alone. “I learnt gymnastics and dance in college in Tanzania. They teach everything there. I have been working in India for four years and have been everywhere. I can even speak Hindi!” he says enthusiastically, asks Khanna Khaya? and breaks into laughter. Adapting to different cultures and a long contract period is a part of the life of these artistes. “We know the festivals that are celebrated in India. There are too many! But those are the days when there’s a huge crowd. Some days there are hardly any audience but, we still perform,” he says. Ask him about their pay and he quickly replies, “We manage with what we get paid. We do what we love and it’s our job,” he says with an indifferent shrug. A Day In Their Life Their everyday routine starts at 5 am. After intense rehearsals and practice, they start getting ready for their first show at 1 pm, followed by two more shows — at 4 pm and 7 pm. After three back-to-back shows, their day ends by 10 pm. “In Indian circuses, there are too many shows unlike in other countries. It’s extremely demanding and gruelling. But, we are used to the drill,” says Anthoni and begins to lift the kettle-bells. Future With a crew of over 80 (including artistes, masons, carpenters, electricians, cooks, tailors and managers), the daily expenses skyrocket. “For the industry to survive, we need subsidies and support from both, the government and public,” adds Shivanand. Special Acts Double side acrobat and double ring act by Mukesh and Tanya, stick balance, eye spring net, vertical swinging acrobat, rope balance, flying trapeze, globe of death, and foot acrobats by Ethiopian artistes. Tickets are priced at `100, `180 and `249. For details, call: 7907281761 or 9447621819


--- [Odyssey on a pen: Circus: Behind the glitter] ---
Sunday, February 7, 2010 Circus: Behind the glitter Are you eager to see the risky escapades and stunts of artistes and get exhilarated? Gemini Circus is back in city after a long gap of six years with its colourful artistes, animals and a seemingly glittering life; you would love to be in their shoes. This Weekend Star Supplement peeps into the lives of the performers behind the stage who put their lives in danger and risk at every point to entertain and thrill us. -- ‘Circus is our home’ The Gemini International Circus was founded by Moorkoth Vengakandy Shankaran, popularly known as Gemini Shankarettan, along with K. Sahadevan on Aug 15, 1951. The maiden performance of Gemini Circus was held on Aug 15, 1951 in Billimoria town, Gujarat. He led our country’s delegation to the World Circus festival held in 1964, in Moscow and Yalta. The entire delegation was given diplomatic visas by the Govt. of India. Shankaran was also a partner in Apollo, Vahini and Grand Jumbo Circus. He started the Jumbo Circus on Oct. 2, 1977. During the year 1953, T.K. Kunhikkanan and K.S. Menon joined the Gemini circus as partners. After two years, K.S. Menon left and started his own circus. Shankaran’s eldest son Ajay Shankar is the Managing Partner of Jumbo, Gemini and The Great Royal Circus. His younger son Ashok Shankar is also a partner of Jumbo, Gemini and The Great Royal Circus. Famous Raj Kapoor movie Mera Naam Joker was picturised in Gemini Circus. A circus is a traveling company of performers. It includes acrobats, clowns, animals, trapeze acts, hoopers, tightrope walkers, jugglers, unicyclists and other stunt-oriented artistes. The word also describes the performance that they give, which is usually a series of acts that are choreographed to music. A circus is held in an oval or circular arena called a ring with tiered seating around its edge; in the case of traveling circuses this location is most often a large tent called the big top. Artistes, animals like elephants, dogs, horses, camels and even birds are the lifeline of a circus. Artistes perform strange antics and acrobatics such as the stunts inside the cage of death, where three motorcycle riders race inside a closed cage, and also a cricket in which four elephants display their batting art. Craving for the admiration and applause, many youngsters run away from homes or coax their parents and join circus. It is only when they enter the different world of circus, do they understand that behind the glitter there exist a hard-working, perspiring life. When SOM spoke to a few artistes of Gemini Circus, they shared their hopes and experiences gladly with us. Shobha Rani, a native of Kerala, has been in circus for the past 30 years and circus is her family. Her husband Babludas from West Bengal has been working in circus from 35 years. She says she met her husband in the circus itself, fell in love & married. They have a daughter who is studying in Kerala. Recalling her first entry to circus, Shobha says, “I was in school when I first saw the circus and immediately wanted to join it. My father was scared to send me to the circus and tried to scare me saying elephants might trample me but it didn't help. And once I joined, the training was so hard that I wanted to go back home. But in time I got used to it and began to enjoy it." Shobha and Babludas do many stunts solo and together. Shobha performs 'Skywalk', where she climbs a shaky ladder to the top which is kept on the table 40-50 feet above the ground level, without any safety net. She stands straight and holds a stick on top of which is balanced four glasses of water with eggs. With a swift move-ment, she breaks the eggs which fall inside the glasses, without losing the balance or toppling the glasses or eggs. Babludas rides a tiny cycle carrying Shobha on his shoulders. They both say in unison that any artiste will get inspiration to do better only with the claps and appreciation of the audience. They live in the family quarters of the circus camp. Shobha's ambition after the circus life is to experience the life of a housewife which she had never gotten till now. “After my life in circus, I want to stay in home & look after my daughter just like a normal mother,” she added. Of special interest in the circus are a group of Tanzanians (picture above) who have arrived in the city on a contract for a period of six months with the Gemini Circus. The 8-member troupe dance, perform gymnastics and play with fire. They swallow the fire, juggle it like a plaything and even snuff it inside their trousers without any apprehension. They even light up a rod and bend beneath it, just 2 ft. from the ground, emerging from other side. They welcomed us with glee and happily set forth telling about themselves, laughing and joking in their language in the midst of eating food. They say this is the first time they are working for Gemini Circus. Sada, who said she was happy to be in Mysore which is cool, says she has worked in circus for three years. They all say they joined circus because they fell in love with it when they saw the perfor-mances of the artistes in their home country. Antony, Frankie, Rosie, Omoganga, Siwema and Omari say they loved the res-ponse of the Indian audience which makes them feel encouraged to do better. Sarita, who is from Nepal, climbs the single swinging rope and climbs to the top with a hand and a leg, all the time swinging. She balances beautifully at a great height. She is married to an performing artiste and is living with her husband and baby at the circus. When asked how she feels when she is at such a great height, she replied laughingly, "At first I would be terrified. But now I feel free and thrilled. I feel light and happy.” “There is a good response to the circus here. People are coming in good numbers not only from urban areas, but also from rural areas. More-over children enjoy a lot. The applause of the children make us feel happy and proud,” she said smiling. Many children from Nepal, Assam, Bengal etc. like Ajith and Suraj join circus leaving their studies, opposing their parents. They say they are more interested in earning a living than studying, because they have poor families at home and have to look after their needs. It is easier to train children who join early because they are very flexible and can perform difficult stunts. Suman, another cycling artiste who has been presented an award from the circus company for her cycling feat, performs with burning sticks while riding the cycle. Recalling the lyrics “Jeena yaha marna yaha iske siva jaana kaha..” she said she enjoyed working there. “Circus is life for me and the people working here. I am happy with this life,” she added. Circus is a dying art with diminishing public interest and absolutely no government support except in Kerala where the government offers a pension for retired circus performers. Yet, according to some, there seems to be a lot of takers, especially youngsters. Call it escapism, lure of livelihood, or just plain fascination, but whatever the reason, they seem to enjoy every bit of this art/profession. A typical day: The day begins at 6.30 am with vigorous practice session upto 11 am. Then it's time for a small nap for those who want it but, for the rest, it's time to get ready for the first show at 1 pm, followed by 4 pm and 7 pm shows. Shared living: The accommodation is divided into the bachelor's pad, the girls' lodgings and another for those living with the family, with an in-charge for each. The access to the girls' areas is highly restricted. They even dine separately while the boys do so with the family residents at the circus mess. Apart from the artistes, six elephants, six horses, three camels, 20 dogs, two ostriches, ten Macaw and African bird Kakatoes and three cats also perform along with eight jokers. Circus Manager Rajendra says the company spends about Rs. 80 thousand a day for food, Rs. 70,000 for artistes and Rs. 20,000 for animals. After having forced to shut down some of its popular acts, including the ones featuring the wild cats, circuses have become less profitable. The average salaries for artistes range from Rs. 4000 to Rs. 8000. Most circus artistes do not know any other vocation and hesitate to go out searching for other jobs. Circus is all they know. [oct. 3, 2009] 2 comments: There is an error inadvertent in this write up. For all I know, as one associated with the Circus industry, Moorkoth Vengakandi Shankaran was never at all a partner of the Apollo Circus. In fact it was Gemini Sahadevan who was a partner with his younger brother K. Sreedharan to form the Apollo Circus. Having written at length about Bollywood Movie Magnate Raj Kapore's involvement with Gemini Circus, irrespective of the fact another Hindi film Shikari, and Kamala Hasan's Apoorva Sahodarargal were also shot entirely from Gemini Circus, there is not even a whisper on maritial alliance brought about between Gemini Circus Partner Sahadevan's son Jagdeesh and Raj Kapore's neice Pushpa Kapore anywhere in the article. Also the reason for Sahadevan's winding up his association from Gemini and joining his brother Sreedharan's Apollo Circus is nowhere found mentioned. Thats all for now. ReplyDelete


--- [Gemini and Jumbo circus founder MV Shankaran passes away] ---
No content


--- [Circus brings thrilling novelty acts to Tiruchi - The Hindu] ---
Residents in Tiruchi have yet another source of entertainment to enjoy the winter break: the Jumbo Circus that set up its Big Top in mid-December on Airport Road and has been attracting a steady stream of visitors ever since. “Circuses are popular among the people of Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, and Kerala. They appreciate our artistry and daredevil acts, and perhaps sympathise with us because we are facing stiff competition from films, television, and web-based shows. We have been seeing footfall of up to 300 in the 1 p.m. and 4 p.m. shows since we came to Tiruchi; the 7 p.m. show is usually packed with over 500 visitors. Some of them come from neighbouring towns and villages just to watch us,” V. Sethumohanan, Jumbo Circus manager, told The Hindu. Published - December 26, 2025 07:34 pm IST
