=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Vaughan Jones (1952 - 2020) - Biography - MacTutor History of ...]
Sep 6, 2020 · In 1993 he was awarded a second honorary D.Sc. this time from the University of Wales. Also in 1993 he was elected to the American Academy of Arts and Science. He was elected to the United States National Academy of Sciences (1999), and the Norwegian Royal Society of Letters and Sciences (2001).
URL: https://mathshistory.st-andrews.ac.uk/Biographies//Jones_Vaughan/

[Vaughan Jones, Fields Medal winner in 1990, dies. - IMPA ...]
Sep 30, 2020 · The new mathematical expression discovered by the researcher, now known as the Jones polynomial, went unnoticed by topologists for 60 years and was essential for him to be awarded the Fields Medal. In 1993, Jones was elected to the United States Academy of Arts and Sciences and, in 1999, became a member of the National Academy of Sciences.
URL: https://impa.br/notices/vaughan-jones-fields-medal-winner-in-1990-dies/?lang=en

[Colleagues and friends remember distinguished Vanderbilt mathematician ...]
Oct 13, 2020 · Jones was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society in 1990. Additionally, he was elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1993 and the National Academy of Sciences in 1999. Jones became vice president of the American Mathematical Society in 2004 and vice president of the International Mathematics Union in 2014.
URL: https://vanderbilthustler.com/2020/10/13/colleagues-and-friends-remember-distinguished-vanderbilt-mathematician-vaughan-jones/

[University of California, Berkeley]
1992 Corresponding Member, Australian Academy of Sciences 1993 Elected to American Academy of Arts & Sciences 1993 Honorary D.Sc. University of Wales. 1999 Elected to US National Academy of Sciences 2000 Onsager medal of Trondheim University 2001 Elected as a foreign member to the Norwegian Royal Society of Letters and Sciences. 2002 DCNZM
URL: https://math.berkeley.edu/~vfr/vita

[Vaughan Frederick Randal Jones | American Academy of Arts and Sciences]
Vaughan Frederick Randal Jones University of California, Berkeley Mathematician; Educator Elected 1993
URL: https://www.amacad.org/person/vaughan-frederick-randal-jones


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Vaughan Jones (1952 - 2020) - Biography - MacTutor History of ...] ---
Vaughan Frederick Randal Jones Quick Info Gisborne, New Zealand Nashville, Tennessee, USA Biography Vaughan Jones attended St Peter's School in Cambridge, New Zealand from the age of eight years until he was 12. In 1966 he began his secondary schooling at Auckland Grammar School in Auckland. He left school having been awarded a University Entrance Scholarship and a Gilles Scholarship to assist him to study at the University of Auckland. He also received a Phillips Industries Bursary.In 1970 Jones entered the University of Auckland graduating with a B.Sc. in 1972 and an M.Sc. with First Class Honours in 1973. He was awarded a Swiss Government Scholarship in 1973 to enable him to undertake research in Switzerland. He also won a F W W Rhodes Memorial Scholarship. After teaching for a while as an assistant lecturer at Auckland, he entered the École de Physique in Geneva in 1974, moving in 1976 to the Écoles Mathématiques. In Geneva his research was supervised by A Haefliger and he also taught as an assistant. In 1979 Jones was awarded his Docteur es Sciences (Mathématiques), and the following year he was awarded the Vacheron Constantin Prize for his doctoral thesis. In 1980 Jones moved to the United States spending the academic year 1980-81 as E R Hedrick Assistant Professor of Mathematics at the University of California at Los Angeles. In 1981 he moved to the University of Pennsylvania where he was assistant professor until 1984 when he was promoted to associate professor. In 1985 he was appointed as Professor of Mathematics at the University of California at Berkeley. Jones worked on the Index Theorem for von Neumann algebras, continuing work begun by Connes and others. His most remarkable contribution, however, was that in the course of this work he discovered a new polynomial invariant for knots which led to surprising connections between apparently quite different areas of mathematics. Jones was awarded a Fields Medal at the 1990 International Congress in Kyoto, Japan for his remarkable and beautiful mathematical achievements. Jones gave a lecture to the 1990 Congress dressed in a rather unusual way for a mathematics lecture. He was wearing the "All Blacks" rugby strip! Joan Birman lectured on Jones's work at the ICM-90 and introduced his work as follows [4]:- In 1984 Jones discovered an astonishing relationship between von Neumann algebras and geometric topology. As a result, he found a new polynomial invariant for knots and links in 3-space. His invariant had been missed completely by topologists, in spite of intense activity in closely related areas during the preceding 60 years, and it was a complete surprise. As time went on, it became clear that his discovery had to do in a bewildering variety of ways with widely separated areas of mathematics and physics .... These included (in addition to knots and links) that part of statistical mechanics having to do with exactly solvable models, the very new area of quantum groups, and also Dynkin diagrams and the representation theory of simple Lie algebras. The central connecting link in all this mathematics was a tower of nested algebras which Jones had discovered some years earlier in the course of proving a theorem which is known as the "Index Theorem".Birman also talked of the way Jones freely exchanged his ideas with other mathematicians [4]:- His style of working is informal, and one which encourages the free and open interchange of ideas. During the past few years Jones wrote letters to various people which described his important new discoveries at an early stage, when he did not yet feel ready to submit them for journal publication because he had much more work to do. He nevertheless asked that his letters be shared, and so they were widely circulated. It was not surprising that they then served as a rich source of ideas for the work of others. As it turned out, there has been more than enough credit to go round. His openness and generosity in this regard have been in the best tradition and spirit of mathematics.Jones has received many honours for his work in addition to the Fields Medal. He was awarded a Guggenheim Fellowship in 1986 and elected a Fellow of the Royal Society in 1990. In 1991 he was awarded the New Zealand Government Science Medal and given an honorary D.Sc. from the University of Auckland in 1992. In 1993 he was awarded a second honorary D.Sc. this time from the University of Wales. Also in 1993 he was elected to the American Academy of Arts and Science. He was elected to the United States National Academy of Sciences (1999), and the Norwegian Royal Society of Letters and Sciences (2001). In 2000 he was presented with the Onsager medal of Trondheim University and in 2002 he was awarded Distinguished Companionship of the New Zealand Order of Merit. Also in 2002 he was elected as an honorary Member of the London Mathematical Society and awarded an honorary degree by the Universite du Littoral, Cote d'Opale. He was further honoured by being elected Vice-President of the American Mathematical Society in 2004 and awarded the Prix Mondial Nessim Habif in 2007. Jones has made many other contributions to the mathematical community, particularly in his editorial work as editor or associate editor for many journals: the Transactions of the American Mathematical Society, the Pacific Mathematics Journal, the Annals of Mathematics, the New Zealand Journal of Mathematics, Advances in Mathematics, the Journal of Operator Theory, Reviews in Mathematical Physics, the Russian Journal of Mathematical Physics, the Journal of Mathematical Chemistry, Geometry and Topology, and L'Enseignement Mathematique. He has served on the Scientific Advisory Boards of the Fields Institute of Mathematics, the Erwin Schrödinger Institute, the Mathematical Sciences Research Institute at Berkeley, the Center for Communications Research (United States), the Institut Henri Poincaré, and the Miller Institute for Basic Research in Sciences. He served on the Nominating committee and the Steele Prize committee of the American Mathematical Society, and on the Programme Committee for the International Congress of Mathematicians held at Madrid in 2006. References (show) - Biography in Encyclopaedia Britannica. http://www.britannica.com/biography/Vaughan-Jones - F Araki and S Iitaka, Profiles of the ICM-90 Fields Medal prizewinner (Japanese), Sugaku 42 (4) (1990), 361-366. - J S Birman, On the work of Vaughan F R Jones, Addresses on the works of Fields medalists and Rolf Nevanlinna Prize winner (Tokyo, 1990). - J S Birman, The work of Vaughan F R Jones, Proceedings of the International Congress of Mathematicians, Kyoto, 1990 I (Tokyo, 1991), 9-18. - Eulogy of Vaughan Jones, New Zealand Math. Soc. Newslett. No. 55 (1992), 9-10. - ICM-90 Kyoto, Japan, Notices Amer. Math. Soc. 37 (9) (1990), 1209-1216. - Y Kawahigashi, Vaughan F R Jones' achievements I (Japanese), Sugaku 43 (1) (1991), 29-34. - C C King, Vaughan Jones and knot theory : a New Zealand mathematician unravels a new invariant which links diverse sciences in an unforeseen thread, New Zealand Math. Soc. Newslett. No. 37 (1986), 28-32. - J Murakami, V F R Jones' achievements II (Japanese), Sugaku 43 (1) (1991), 35-40. - G Skandalis, Médaille Fields de Vaughan Jones, Gaz. Math. No. 47 (1991), 17-19. - R Schmid, Strings, knots, and quantum groups: a glimpse at three 1990 Fields medalists, SIAM Rev. 34 (3) (1992), 406-425. Additional Resources (show) Other websites about Vaughan Jones: Honours (show) Cross-references (show) Written by J J O'Connor and E F Robertson Last Update September 2009 Last Update September 2009


--- [Vaughan Jones, Fields Medal winner in 1990, dies. - IMPA ...] ---
Vaughan Jones, Fields Medal winner in 1990, dies. Mathematician Vaughan F.R. Jones, professor at the Faculty of Arts and Sciences at Vanderbilt University and Fields Medal recipient in 1990, died suddenly on September 6th at the age of 67. The New Zealander worked primarily in the areas of von Neumann algebra theory, subfactors and plane algebras, mathematical physics, and low-dimensional topology. One of his most important discoveries was in the area of knot theory, with the creation of the "Jones polynomial". “Vaughan Jones was a brilliant mathematician and a wonderful person, deeply caring about his students, colleagues, friends, and family. His research was a fundamental game-changer for the field of mathematics. When he joined our faculty, his presence and strength of personality transformed the mathematics department and the college. He will be missed,” said John Geer, Dean of the College of Arts and Sciences at Vanderbilt University, to the institution's website . Read more: Award recognizes innovative projects by teachers. Artificial intelligence can save lives in healthcare. Brazil achieves best result ever at the IMO. Born in 1952, Jones grew up in Auckland, New Zealand. At the University of Auckland, he earned a bachelor's and master's degree in science with honors. Awarded a scholarship from the Swiss government, Jones enrolled at the École de Physique in Geneva, and later transferred to the École des Mathématiques, where he earned his doctorate in 1979. After spending a year at the University of California, Berkeley (UCLA), the mathematician went to the University of Pennsylvania, where he was a faculty member between 1981 and 1985. In 2011, he went to Vanderbilt University at the invitation of Nicholas S. Zeppos, a professor of Law and Political Science at the institution. The mathematician was at IMPA in 2014 for the keynote lecture “Subfactors, loop groups and conformal field theory” . During the 1980s, Jones worked on a problem in von Neumann algebra theory linked to the foundations of quantum mechanics and discovered an unexpected connection between this theory and knot theory. The new mathematical expression discovered by the researcher, now known as the Jones polynomial, went unnoticed by topologists for 60 years and was essential for him to be awarded the Fields Medal. In 1993, Jones was elected to the United States Academy of Arts and Sciences and, in 1999, became a member of the National Academy of Sciences. He was a Fellow of the Royal Society in the United Kingdom and New Zealand, and a Knight Companion of the Order of Merit of New Zealand. He also served as vice-president of the American Mathematical Society and the International Mathematical Union (IMU). Jones is survived by his wife, Martha Jones, an economist and associate professor in the Department of Medicine, Health, and Society at Vanderbilt, and three children.


--- [Colleagues and friends remember distinguished Vanderbilt mathematician ...] ---
Sir Vaughan F. R. Jones, Stevenson Chair and distinguished professor of mathematics in Vanderbilt’s College of Arts and Science, passed away suddenly on Sept. 6 at the age of 67. Jones is survived by his wife and three children. His wife, Dr. Martha Jones, is an economist and associate professor in Vanderbilt’s Department of Medicine, Health and Society. Professor of Mathematics and Chair of the Mathematics Department Mike Neamtu spoke about Jones’s legacy at Vanderbilt. “All of us in the Math Department have been very saddened by the tragic loss of our distinguished colleague Vaughan Jones,” Neamtu said. “He was a wonderful person and an incredibly talented mathematician, with many accomplishments and accolades. The hiring of Vaughan Jones in 2011 has significantly increased the reputation and visibility of the Math Department among our peers.” One of the world’s leading mathematicians, Jones received the Fields Medal in 1990. Widely considered the “Nobel Prize of mathematics,” the Fields Medal is awarded every four years to mathematicians under 40 years of age by the International Congress of the International Mathematical Union (IMU). Jones was awarded the medal for his work in von Neumann algebras and his discovery of his eponymous Jones polynomial, which distinguishes different kinds of knots and links in three-dimensional space. Jones grew up in Auckland, New Zealand and earned a B.Sc. and a M.Sc. with first class honors from the University of Auckland. He received a scholarship from the Swiss government in 1974 to study physics in Geneva at the École de Physique, transferring a year and a half later to the École des Mathématiques where he earned his doctorate in mathematics in 1979. It was also in Geneva where Jones met his future wife, Martha Myers, an American Fulbright scholar, at a ski camp for foreign students. Jones began his career in teaching at the University of California, Los Angeles in 1980, where he taught for a year before joining the University of Pennsylvania’s faculty from 1981 to 1985. Jones eventually went on to earn full professorship at the University of California, Berkeley while participating in a special research year at the Mathematical Sciences Research Institute (MSRI) in Oakland, CA. In 2011, Chancellor Emeritus Nicholas S. Zeppos recruited Jones to Vanderbilt. Professor of Mathematics and Director of the Center of Noncommutative Geometry & Operator Algebras Dietmar Bisch remembered Jones’s arrival at Vanderbilt. “When an opportunity to bring Vaughan from Berkeley to Vanderbilt presented itself, I seized it and, in my function as department chair at the time, worked with then-chancellor Nick Zeppos to convince him to join us,” Bisch said. According to Bisch, he and Jones had been collaborating since the mid-1990s. At the time, Bisch was a postdoctoral fellow at Berkeley, where Jones served as his faculty advisor. The two would often jot their ideas down on napkins during their coffee shop conversations, and the hard work would always come later when they returned to the office, Bisch said. “We discovered some fundamental mathematical structures in our joint work, now sometimes called the Bisch-Jones algebras, that play a fundamental role in our area of mathematics,” Bisch said. “Vaughan always worked on very exciting problems and collaborated with many students and postdoctoral fellows throughout his career. His discoveries were groundbreaking, and I will miss our mathematical discussions and having him around as a friend.” Jones was also known for his informal attire. He famously wore the jersey of the New Zealand All Blacks rugby team when delivering his Fields Medal lecture at the 1990 International Congress of Mathematicians (ICM), the largest conference for mathematics in the world. Jones was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society in 1990. Additionally, he was elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1993 and the National Academy of Sciences in 1999. Jones became vice president of the American Mathematical Society in 2004 and vice president of the International Mathematics Union in 2014. Beyond all of his academic accomplishments, Jones was a cherished member of the Vanderbilt community, and his passing is a great loss to students and faculty alike. “We were proud and honored to have him as a colleague and friend,” Neamtu said. “He was very generous, good-humored and always willing to offer a helping hand to our students and faculty. We will cherish his memory with great fondness and gratitude.”


--- [University of California, Berkeley] ---
Curriculum Vitae: Vaughan F. R. Jones Date & Place of Birth: 31 December 1952, Gisborne, New Zealand. Married (Martha Weare Jones [nee Myers], April 7, 1979 in New Jersey); 3 children (Bethany Martha Jones; Ian Randal Jones; Alice Collins Jones). Schooling: Preparatory School (1961-65), St.Peter's School, Cambridge, NZ. Secondary School (1966-69), Auckland Grammar School, Auckland, NZ. Undergrad studies (1970-73), Univ. of Auckland, Auckland, NZ. Graduate studies (1974-76), Ecole de Physique, Geneva, Switzerland. (1976-80), Ecole de Mathematiques, Geneva, Switz. Degrees: B.Sc, 1972, Auckland Univ. M.Sc., 1973, Auckland Univ. (First Class Honors) Docteur es Sciences [Math], 1979, Geneva. (Supervisor: A.Haefliger) Employment: 1974 Junior Lecturer, Univ. of Auckland 1975-80 Assistant, Univ. de Geneve, Switzerland 1980-81 E.R.Hedrick Asst. Prof., UCLA, Los Angeles, California 1981-82 Visiting Lecturer, Univ. of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia 1981-84 Assistant Professor, Univ. of Pennsylvania 1984-85 Associate Professor, Univ. of Pennsylvania 1985-- Professor of Mathematics, Univ. of California, Berkeley. Special Awards: 1969 Universites Entrance Scholarship 1969 Gillies Scholarship (for study at Auckland Univ.) 1969 Phillips Industries Bursary 1973 Swiss Government Scholarship (for study in Switzerland) 1973 F.W.W. Rhodes Memorial Scholarship 1980 Vacheron Constantin Prize (for thesis, Univ. de Geneve) 1983 Alfred P. Sloan Research Fellowship 1986 Guggenheim Fellowship 1990 Fellow of the Royal Society 1990 Fields Medal 1991 New Zealand Government Science Medal(Now Rutherford Medal) 1991 Honorary Fellow RSNZ 1992 Honorary vice President for life, International Guild of Knot Tyers 1992 Honorary D.Sc., University of Auckland 1992 Corresponding Member, Australian Academy of Sciences 1993 Elected to American Academy of Arts & Sciences 1993 Honorary D.Sc. University of Wales. 1999 Elected to US National Academy of Sciences 2000 Onsager medal of Trondheim University 2001 Elected as a foreign member to the Norwegian Royal Society of Letters and Sciences. 2002 DCNZM 2002 Elected Honorary Member of the London Mathematical Society. 2002 Doctorat Honoris Causa, Universite du Littoral, Cote d'Opale 2004 Elected vice president, American Mathematical Society. 2007 Prix Mondial Nessim Habif Plenary talks: 1988 International Association of Mathematical Physicists (Swansea) 1990 International Congress of Mathematicians (Kyoto) 1997 International Association of Mathematical Physicists (Brisbane) Service to Mathematical community: Currently or in the past, editor or associate editor of: Transactions of the AMS Pacific Math Journal Annals of Mathematics New Zealand Journal of Mathematics Advances in Mathematics Journal of Operator Theory Reviews in Mathematical Physics Russian Journal of Mathematical Physics Journal of Mathematical Chemistry Geometry and Topology L'Enseignement Mathematique Scientific Advisory Boards: Fields Institute of Mathematics Erwin Schrodinger Institute Mathematical Sciences Research Institute(Berkeley) Center for Communications Research (USA) Institut Henri Poincare Miller Institute for Basic Research in Sciences. Program committee International Congress of Mathematicians 2006 Director, New Zealand mathematics research Institute. Co-director, NZ Institute for mathematics and its applications. Executive committee, IAMP (1991 -1994) AMS committees: Nominating committee Steele Prize committee


--- [Vaughan Frederick Randal Jones | American Academy of Arts and Sciences] ---
To member directory Vaughan Frederick Randal Jones University of California, Berkeley Mathematician; Educator Elected 1993 To member directory
