=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Tony Evans Brings Up the Mixed Emotions of Remarriage After Loss]
Sep 21, 2023 · Evans had been married to Lois for 49 years before she died of cancer at the end of 2019, and the famous preacher described how she had been his partner in life and ministry.
URL: https://www.christianitytoday.com/2023/09/tony-evans-engaged-remarriage-grief-loss-blended-family/

[About - Lois Evans]
Lois was married for nearly 50 years to her favorite pastor/teacher and best friend, Dr. Tony Evans, Senior Pastor of Oak Cliff Bible Fellowship. She has four children: Chrystal, Priscilla, Anthony, Jr., and Jonathan, five granddaughters and eight grandsons, and two great-grandchildren.
URL: https://loisevans.org/about/

[Lois Evans - Tony Evans]
Lois was married for nearly 50 years to her favorite pastor/teacher and best friend, Dr. Tony Evans, Senior Pastor of Oak Cliff Bible Fellowship. She has four children: Chrystal, Priscilla, Anthony, Jr., and Jonathan, five granddaughters and eight grandsons, and three great-grandchildren.
URL: https://go.tonyevans.org/about/lois-evans

[Lois Evans, wife to pastor Tony Evans, dies at age 70]
Jan 2, 2020 — Lois Irene Evans, beloved wife of Tony Evans for 49 years and founder of Pastors' Wives Ministry, passed away Dec. 30, 2019 of biliary cancer. She was 70.
URL: https://www.baptistpress.com/resource-library/news/lois-evans-wife-to-pastor-tony-evans-dies-at-age-70/

[Wife of Pastor Tony Evans dies at 70 - God Reports]
Jan 2, 2020 · Lois Evans, beloved wife of Pastor Tony Evans for 49 years and founder of Pastors' Wives Ministry, passed away Dec. 30, 2019...
URL: https://www.godreports.com/2020/01/wife-of-pastor-tony-evans-dies-at-70/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Tony Evans Brings Up the Mixed Emotions of Remarriage After Loss] ---
No content


--- [About - Lois Evans] ---
Lois Evans Former Senior Vice President of The Urban Alternative For such a time as this. – Esther 4:14. She was a pastor’s wife for over 40 years… EDUCATIONAL BACKGROUND BA Business Administration from Dallas Baptist University Doctorate of Humane Letters from Eastern College. PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Dr. Lois Evans was employed by the Billy Graham Evangelistic Association, the Grand Old Gospel Fellowship Ministry, Dallas Federal Savings and Loan, as well as numerous executive management positions with The Urban Alternative, which she co-founded with her husband Dr. Tony Evans in 1982. She served as Executive Vice President from 1989 to 1995 and Senior Vice President till 2019. Dr. Evans was also founder of the Pastors’ Wives Ministry. She served in the office of the Senior Pastor at Oak Cliff Bible Fellowship Church, National Religious Broadcasters Board, and The Urban Alternative Board of Directors. She has also served on the NRB Television Board and as the 1st President of the Global Pastors’ Wives Network. In addition, she was a member of Leadership Southwest, sponsored by the Oak Cliff Chamber of Commerce and served on the Board of the Christian Management Association. She was also the Founder of The Pastors’ Wives Ministry and the First Lady Conference. Lois was honored in 1995 with the Good Samaritan Award from Dallas Baptist University for outstanding Christian service to the community. In 1996, she received an honorary Doctorate of Humane Letters from Eastern College and in 2000 she received the Status of Women Award from Sigma Gamma Rho Sorority, Inc. She also received The Woman of the Year in Ministry Award presented by the Women of Influence, Inc. Dr. Evans traveled throughout the United States, the Caribbean, China, India, South America, Europe and West Africa. PUBLICATIONS In addition to many magazine and newsletter articles, Dr. Evans was a contributing author to Promises Promises: Understanding and Encouraging Your Husband (Vision House, 1996). She is co-author of Our Love Is Here To Stay (Multnomah Publishing, 2004), author of Seasons of a Woman’s Life (Moody, 2000—Out of print), and Stones of Remembrance: A Rock-Hard Faith for Rock-Hard Places (Moody, 2006) with Jane Rubietta.. She also recorded two albums in 1983 and in 1989. FAMILY Lois was married for nearly 50 years to her favorite pastor/teacher and best friend, Dr. Tony Evans, Senior Pastor of Oak Cliff Bible Fellowship. She has four children: Chrystal, Priscilla, Anthony, Jr., and Jonathan, five granddaughters and eight grandsons, and two great-grandchildren.


--- [Lois Evans - Tony Evans] ---
Lois Evans Professional Experience Lois served as Senior Vice President until 2019 and was the founder of Pastors’ Wives Ministry. Dr. Evans was employed by the Billy Graham Evangelistic Association, the Grand Old Gospel Fellowship Ministry, Dallas Federal Savings and Loan, as well as numerous executive management positions with The Urban Alternative since its inception in 1982, including serving as Executive Vice President from 1989 to 1995. She served as Senior Vice President until 2019. She served in the office of the Senior Pastor at Oak Cliff Bible Fellowship Church, National Religious Broadcasters Board, NRB Television Board, and The Urban Alternative Board of Directors. In addition, she was a member of Leadership Southwest, sponsored by the Oak Cliff Chamber of Commerce and served on the Board of the Christian Management Association. Also, she served as the 1st President of the Global Pastors’ Wives Network. Lois was honored in 1995 with the Good Samaritan Award from Dallas Baptist University for outstanding Christian service to the community. In 1996, she received an honorary Doctorate of Humane Letters from Eastern College and in 2000 she received the Status of Women Award from Sigma Gamma Rho Sorority, Inc. She recently received The Woman of the Year in Ministry Award presented by the Women of Influence, Inc. Dr. Evans traveled throughout the United States, the Caribbean, China, India, South America, Europe and Africa. She was a much sought after speaker for conferences and churches around the globe, as well as an accomplished singer. Education BA Business Administration from Dallas Baptist University Doctorate of Humane Letters from Eastern College Publications In addition to many magazine and newsletter articles, Dr. Evans was a contributing author to Promises Promises. Understanding and Encouraging Your Husband (Vision House, 1996). She is co-author of Our Love Is Here To Stay (Multnomah Publishing, 2004), author of Seasons Of A Woman’s Life (Moody, 2000—out of print), and Stones of Remembrance: A Rock-Hard Faith for Rock-Hard Places (Moody, 2006) with Jane Rubietta. She also recorded two albums in 1983 and in 1989. Family Lois was married for nearly 50 years to her favorite pastor/teacher and best friend, Dr. Tony Evans, Senior Pastor of Oak Cliff Bible Fellowship. She has four children: Chrystal, Priscilla, Anthony, Jr., and Jonathan, five granddaughters and eight grandsons, and three great-grandchildren.


--- [Lois Evans, wife to pastor Tony Evans, dies at age 70] ---
DALLAS (BP) — Lois Irene Evans, beloved wife of Tony Evans for 49 years and founder of Pastors’ Wives Ministry, passed away Dec. 30, 2019 of biliary cancer. She was 70. Tony, senior pastor of Oak Cliff Bible Fellowship in Dallas, shared the news on Facebook. “Just before the sun came up this morning,” he wrote, “the love of my life transitioned from earth and watched her first sunrise from heaven.” Lois was with her husband and the couple’s four children when she died Monday (Dec. 30). “As she slipped away, we told her how much we love her, how proud we are of her, and how thankful we are for the life she has lived,” pastor Evans wrote. “We are what we are because of her.” Priscilla Shirer, best-selling author, actress and the Evanses’ daughter, tweeted, “Goodnight my beautiful, beloved Mommy. I’ll see you in the morning.” The Evanses’ son, Christian music artist Anthony Evans, Jr., posted, “I love you forever, Mommy.” Southern Baptist Convention President J.D. Greear also expressed his condolences on Twitter. “Grieving with you and your family, Dr. Evans,” Greear tweeted. “Your and Mrs. Lois’ life and ministry have been an almost incalculable blessing to many of us.” Marshal Ausberry, president of the National African American Fellowship of the SBC and pastor of Antioch Baptist Church in Fairfax Station, Va., shared with condolences with Baptist Press. “Lois Evans has been a picture of a loving wife, mother, and Christian woman,” Ausberry told BP Thursday (Jan. 2.) “Lois Evans’ strong support of her husband enabled him to do all he did. They truly served well as a team. The Evans family has touched countless lives around the world.” A 9 a.m. viewing and an 11 a.m. funeral are scheduled Monday (Jan. 6) at Oak Cliff Bible Fellowship Church. “We are grateful for your thoughts and prayers,” pastor Evans wrote. “Many have asked how to help during this time. In honor of Lois, I would also love for you to consider sending flowers this week to your pastor’s wife. Lois loved receiving flowers but she also loved giving them. Because her passion was ministering to pastors’ wives and making sure they felt loved and cared for, your gift of flowers in her memory would be a gift to us as well.” In lieu of flowers, he suggested “continuing the ministry to pastors’ wives that was dear to Lois’ heart” by contributing to The Urban Alternative’s Pastors’ Wives Ministry.


--- [Wife of Pastor Tony Evans dies at 70 - God Reports] ---
By Jon D. Wilke — Lois Irene Evans, beloved wife of Tony Evans for 49 years and founder of Pastors’ Wives Ministry, passed away Dec. 30, 2019 of biliary cancer. She was 70. Tony, senior pastor of Oak Cliff Bible Fellowship in Dallas, shared the news on Facebook. “Just before the sun came up this morning,” he wrote, “the love of my life transitioned from earth and watched her first sunrise from heaven.” Lois was with her husband and the couple’s four children when she died Monday (Dec. 30). “As she slipped away, we told her how much we love her, how proud we are of her, and how thankful we are for the life she has lived,” pastor Evans wrote. “We are what we are because of her.” Priscilla Shirer, best-selling author, actress and the Evanses’ daughter, tweeted, “Goodnight my beautiful, beloved Mommy. I’ll see you in the morning.” The Evanses’ son, Christian music artist Anthony Evans, Jr., posted, “I love you forever, Mommy.” Southern Baptist Convention President J.D. Greear also expressed his condolences on Twitter. “Grieving with you and your family, Dr. Evans,” Greear tweeted. “Your and Mrs. Lois’ life and ministry have been an almost incalculable blessing to many of us.” Marshal Ausberry, president of the National African American Fellowship of the SBC and pastor of Antioch Baptist Church in Fairfax Station, Va., shared with condolences with Baptist Press. “Lois Evans has been a picture of a loving wife, mother, and Christian woman,” Ausberry told BP Thursday (Jan. 2.) “Lois Evans’ strong support of her husband enabled him to do all he did. They truly served well as a team. The Evans family has touched countless lives around the world.” A 9 a.m. viewing and an 11 a.m. funeral are scheduled Monday (Jan. 6) at Oak Cliff Bible Fellowship Church. “We are grateful for your thoughts and prayers,” pastor Evans wrote. “Many have asked how to help during this time. In honor of Lois, I would also love for you to consider sending flowers this week to your pastor’s wife. Lois loved receiving flowers but she also loved giving them. Because her passion was ministering to pastors’ wives and making sure they felt loved and cared for, your gift of flowers in her memory would be a gift to us as well.” In lieu of flowers, he suggested “continuing the ministry to pastors’ wives that was dear to Lois’ heart” by contributing to The Urban Alternative’s Pastors’ Wives Ministry. — Baptist Press
