=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Antonio Negri - Wikipedia]
After his release he lived in Venice and Paris with his partner, the French philosopher Judith Revel. He was the father of film director Anna Negri. Antonio Negri was born in Padua, in the Northeastern Italian region of Veneto, in 1933.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Antonio_Negri

[Antonio “Toni” Negri (1 August 1933 – 16 December 2023)]
Dec 17, 2023 · In France, Antonio Negri started to work at the University of Paris VIII in Saint Denis, and among the names Antonio Negri worked with at that time were Alain Badiou and Gilles Deleuze.
URL: https://varunvasunarayananblog.wordpress.com/2023/12/17/antonio-toni-negri-1-august-1933-16-december-2023/

[Italian philosopher Antonio Negri, a long-time friend of the Kurdish ...]
Dec 16, 2023 · Negri's death was announced by his daughter Anna Negri on her Instagram account. “It is with great sadness that we learned of the death of ...
URL: https://www.peaceinkurdistancampaign.com/italian-philosopher-antonio-negri-a-long-time-friend-of-the-kurdish-people-passes-away/

[Our history | negris]
Today, you will see Evelyn Negri (Joe Jr's wife), her daughter Sandy Negri and Sandy's two daughters Amanda and Tori continuing the Negri legacy.
URL: https://www.negrisrestaurant.com/our-history

[Grokipedia: Antonio Negri]
Learn more about Antonio Negri on Grokipedia.
URL: https://grokipedia.com/page/Antonio_Negri


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Antonio Negri - Wikipedia] ---
Antonio Negri (; Italian: [ˈneːɡri]; 1 August 1933 – 16 December 2023) was an Italian political philosopher known as one of the most prominent theorists of autonomism, as well as for his co-authorship of Empire with Michael Hardt. Born in Padua, Italy, Negri became a professor of political philosophy at the University of Padua, where he taught state and constitutional theory. Negri founded the Potere Operaio (Worker Power) group in 1969 and was a leading member of Autonomia Operaia, and published highly influential books, including Empire and  Multitude: War and Democracy in the Age of Empire.
Negri was accused in the late 1970s of being the mastermind of the left-wing urban guerrilla organization Red Brigades (Brigate Rosse or BR), which was involved in the May 1978 kidnapping and murder of former Italian prime minister Aldo Moro. On 7 April 1979, Negri was arrested and charged with a number of crimes, including the Moro murder. Most charges were quickly dropped, but in 1984, having fled to France, he was sentenced in absentia to 30 years in prison. He was given an additional four years on the charge of being morally responsible for the violence of political activists in the 1960s and 1970s. The question of Negri's involvement with left-wing extremism is a controversial subject. He was indicted on a number of charges, including "association and insurrection against the state" (a charge which was later dropped), and sentenced for involvement in two murders.
Negri fled to France where, protected by the Mitterrand doctrine, he taught at the Paris VIII (Vincennes) and the Collège international de philosophie, along with Jacques Derrida, Michel Foucault, and Gilles Deleuze. In 1997, after a plea-bargain that reduced his prison time from 30 to 13 years, he returned to Italy to serve the end of his sentence. Many of his most influential books were published while he was behind bars. After his release he lived in Venice and Paris with his partner, the French philosopher Judith Revel. He was the father of film director Anna Negri.




--- [Antonio “Toni” Negri (1 August 1933 – 16 December 2023)] ---
Toni Negri (1933-2023). ‘We are just readers of Marx and political revolutionary agitators in our time’. Italian philosopher and political theorist Antonio Negri died at the age of 90. Negri’s death was announced by his daughter Anna Negri on her Instagram account. Toni Negri was one of the most important Marxist and communist intellectuals of recent decades, an obligatory reference in the international debate. One may or may not agree with his theoretical contributions, but his work will continue to be discussed in universities and movements across the planet in the coming decades. His enormous theoretical and investigative work has always developed in connection with struggles, from the workerism of the 1960s to the alter-globalization movement up to the social strikes in France in recent years. Toni was a communist who never stopped fighting with love against war, capitalism and fascism for common freedom. After the long Italian 1968 and 1989 he continued to transmit to new militant generations the joy of being communist, the need to read the transformations of capitalism and to invent new movement practices and new programmatic platforms. With passion and intelligence he countered the prevalence of cynicism, opportunism and fear. In the years around 2001 he walked with us in the movement of movements and hoped for the re-foundation of the Italian left within a new cycle of struggles. Negri was born on 1 August 1933 in Padua, Italy. He joined the Roman Catholic youth movement “Gioventú Italiana di Azione Cattolica” in the early 1950s. In 1956, Negri became a member of the Italian Socialist Party and studied Political Science at the University of Padua. Until 1967, Negri was an assistant at the University of Padua, where he became professor of the Doctrines of the State. In 1969, he was one of the founders of ‘Potere Operaio’ (Workers’ Power), a political group that organised protests in factories representing the workers. After the dissolution of ‘Potere Operaio’ in 1973, Negri joined the political organisation ‘Autonomia Operai Organizzata’ (Autonomous Workers Organisation) and contributed many theoretical articles. Antonio Negri was arrested in April 1979, along with many other members of the ‘Autonomia’ movement; he was charged with alleged links to the ‘Red Brigades’. Negri was also accused of planning the kidnapping and murder of Aldo Moro, leader of the Christian Democratic Party of Italy, in 1978. Although he was absolved from the latter charge, he was convicted in the case and sentenced in absentia to 30 years in prison in 1984. Negri was given a further 4-year sentence for allegedly being ‘morally responsible’ for the violence of political activists in the 1960s and 1970s. Antonio Negri was imprisoned for four years, and he was released after being elected as an MP from the Radical Party list. However, Negri’s immunity was lifted by the Italian Chamber of Deputies. Negri did not return to prison in Italy, but travelled to France with the help of Amnesty International and Félix Guattari. In France, Antonio Negri started to work at the University of Paris VIII in Saint Denis, and among the names Antonio Negri worked with at that time were Alain Badiou and Gilles Deleuze. While living in Paris, Negri met a young student named Michael Hardt and they produced many works together in the following decades. Negri voluntarily returned to Italy in 1997 to serve his prison sentence. His sentence was commuted and he was released in 2003. Antonio Negri and Michael Hardt’s book ‘The Labour of Dionysus’ was published in 1994. Then, in 2000, the duo published the book ‘Empire’, which became an international bestseller. In their book, Negri and Hardt argued that a new form of sovereignty emerged after World War II and called it ‘Empire’. The two thinkers argued that this form of sovereignty is global in nature and is already more powerful than any nation-state. Negri and Hardt also expressed the idea that the new global processes of production, labour management and finance, i.e. globalisation, have changed the composition of capital and in doing so created a new class. According to them, this situation was also opening a new page in the history of class struggle. Antonio “Toni” Negri (1 August 1933 – 16 December 2023) was an Italian political philosopher known as one of the most prominent theorists of autonomism, as well as for his co-authorship of Empire and his work on Spinoza. Born in Padua, he became a political philosophy professor in his hometown university. Negri founded the Potere Operaio (Worker Power) group in 1969 and was a leading member of Autonomia Operaia, and published hugely influential books urging “revolutionary consciousness”. He was accused in the late 1970s of various charges including being the mastermind of the left-wing extremist organization Red Brigades (Brigate Rosse or BR), involved in the May 1978 kidnapping of Aldo Moro, two-time prime minister of Italy, and leader of the Christian-Democrat Party, among others. He was suspected of having made a threatening phone call on behalf of the BR, but the court was unable to conclusively prove his ties. Nevertheless he was convicted in 1984 and sentenced (in absentia) to 30 years in prison. He was given an additional four years on the charge of being ‘morally responsible’ for the violence of political activists in the 1960s and 1970s. The question of Negri’s complicity with left-wing extremism is a controversial subject. He was indicted on a number of charges, including “association and insurrection against the state” (a charge which was later dropped), and sentenced for involvement in two murders. Negri fled to France where, protected by the Mitterrand doctrine, he taught at the Paris VIII (Vincennes) and the Collège international de philosophie, along with Jacques Derrida, Michel Foucault and Gilles Deleuze. In 1997, after a plea-bargain that reduced his prison time from 30 to 13 years, he returned to Italy to serve the end of his sentence. Many of his most influential books were published while he was behind bars. He hence lived in Venice and Paris with his partner, the French philosopher Judith Revel. He was the father of film director Anna Negri. Like Deleuze, Negri’s preoccupation with Spinoza is well known in contemporary philosophy. Along with Althusser and Deleuze, he has been one of the central figures of a French-inspired Neo-Spinozism in continental philosophy of the late 20th and early 21st centuries, that was the second remarkable Spinoza revival in history, after a well-known rediscovery of Spinoza by German thinkers (especially the German Romantics and Idealists) in the late 18th and early 19th centuries. Early years Antonio Negri was born in Padua, in the Northeastern Italian region of Veneto, in 1933. His father was an active communist militant from the city of Bologna (in the Northeastern Italian region of Emilia-Romagna), and although he died when Negri was two years old, his political engagement made Negri familiar with Marxism from an early age, while his mother was a teacher from the town of Poggio Rusco (in province of Mantua, Lombardy). He began his career as a militant in the 1950s with the activist Roman Catholic youth organization Gioventú Italiana di Azione Cattolica (GIAC). Negri became a communist in 1953–54 when he worked at a kibbutz in Israel for a year. The kibbutz was organised according to ideas of Zionist socialism and all the members were Jewish communists. He joined the Italian Socialist Party in 1956 and remained a member until 1963, while at the same time becoming more and more engaged throughout the late 1950s and early 1960s in Marxist movements. He had a quick academic career at the University of Padua and was promoted to full professor at a young age in the field of “dottrina dello Stato” (State theory), a peculiarly Italian field that deals with juridical and constitutional theory. This might have been facilitated by his connections to influential politicians such as Raniero Panzieri and philosopher Norberto Bobbio, strongly engaged with the Socialist Party. In the early 1960s, Negri joined the editorial group of Quaderni Rossi, a journal that represented the intellectual rebirth of Marxism in Italy outside the realm of the communist party. In 1969, together with Oreste Scalzone and Franco Piperno, Negri was one of the founders of the group Potere Operaio (Workers’ Power) and the Operaismo (workerist) Communist movement. Potere Operaio disbanded in 1973 and gave rise to the Autonomia Operaia Organizzata (Organised Workers’ Autonomy) movement. Arrest and flight On 16 March 1978, Aldo Moro, former Italian prime minister and Christian Democrat party leader, was kidnapped in Rome by the Red Brigades, his five-man bodyguard murdered on the spot of the kidnapping in Rome’s Via Fani. While they were holding him, forty-five days after the kidnapping, the Red Brigades called his family on the phone, informing Moro’s wife of her husband’s impending death. Nine days later his body, shot in the head, was found dumped in a city lane. The conversation was recorded, and later broadcast and televised. A number of people who knew Negri and remembered his voice identified him as the probable author of the call, but the claim has been since dismissed: the author of the call was, in fact, Valerio Morucci. On 7 April 1979, Negri was arrested for his part in the Autonomy Movement, along with others (Emilio Vesce, Luciano Ferrari Bravo, Mario Dalmaviva, Lauso Zagato, Oreste Scalzone, Pino Nicotri, Alisa del Re, Carmela di Rocco, Massimo Tramonte, Sandro Serafini, Guido Bianchini, and others). Padova’s Public Prosecutor Pietro Calogero accused them of being involved in the political wing of the Red Brigades, and thus behind left-wing terrorism in Italy. Negri was charged with a number of offences, including leadership of the Red Brigades, masterminding the 1978 kidnapping and murder of the President of the Christian Democratic Party Aldo Moro, and plotting to overthrow the government. At the time, Negri was a political science professor at the University of Padua and visiting lecturer at Paris’ École Normale Supérieure. The Italian public was shocked that an academic could be involved in such events. A year later, Negri was exonerated of Aldo Moro’s kidnapping after a leader of the BR, having decided to cooperate with the prosecution, testified that Negri “had nothing to do with the Red Brigades.” The charge of ‘armed insurrection against the State’ against Negri was dropped at the last moment, and, because of this, he did not receive the 30-year plus life sentence requested by the prosecutor, but received just 30 years for being the instigator of political activist Carlo Saronio’s murder and having ‘morally concurred’ with the murder of Andrea Lombardini, a carabiniere, during a failed bank robbery. His philosopher peers saw little fault with Negri’s activities. Michel Foucault commented, “Isn’t he in jail simply for being an intellectual?” French philosophers Félix Guattari and Gilles Deleuze also signed in November 1977 L’Appel des intellectuels français contre la répression en Italie (The Call of French Intellectuals Against Repression in Italy) in protest against Negri’s imprisonment and Italian anti-terrorism legislation. In 1983, four years after his arrest and while he was still in prison awaiting trial, Negri was elected to the Italian legislature as a member for the Radical Party.[33] Claiming parliamentary immunity, he was temporarily released and used his freedom to escape to France. There he remained for 14 years, writing and teaching, protected from extradition in virtue of the “Mitterrand doctrine”. His refusal to stand trial in Italy was widely criticized by Italian media and by the Italian Radical Party, who had supported his candidacy to Parliament.[failed verification] In France, Negri began teaching at the Paris VIII (Vincennes) and the Collège international de philosophie, founded by Jacques Derrida. Although the conditions of his residence in France prevented him from engaging in political activities, he wrote prolifically and was active in a broad coalition of left-wing intellectuals. In 1990 Negri with Jean-Marie Vincent and Denis Berger founded the journal Futur Antérieur. (The journal ceased publication in 1998 but was reborn as Multitudes in 2000, with Negri as a member of the international editorial board.) In 1997, after a plea-bargain that reduced his prison time from 30 to 13 years, Negri returned to Italy to serve the end of his sentence. He was released from prison in the spring of 2003, having written some of his most influential works while behind bars. In the late 1980s the Italian President Francesco Cossiga described Antonio Negri as “a psychopath” who “poisoned the minds of an entire generation of Italy’s youth.” Political thought and writing Unlike other forms of Marxism, autonomist Marxism emphasises the ability of the working class to force changes to the organization of the capitalist system independent of the state, trade unions or political parties. Autonomists are less concerned with party political organization than are other Marxists, focusing instead on self-organized action outside of traditional organizational structures. Autonomist Marxism is thus a “bottom-up” theory: it draws attention to activities that autonomists see as everyday working-class resistance to capitalism, for example absenteeism, slow working, and socialization in the workplace. The journal Quaderni Rossi (“Red Notebooks”), produced between 1961 and 1965, and its successor Classe Operaia (“Working Class”), produced between 1963 and 1966, were also influential in the development of early autonomism. Both were founded by Antonio Negri and Mario Tronti. Today, Antonio Negri is best known as the co-author, with Michael Hardt, of the controversial Marxist-inspired treatise Empire (2000). In 2009 Negri completed the book Commonwealth, the final in a trilogy that began in 2000 with Empire and continued with Multitude in 2004, co-authored with Michael Hardt. Since Commonwealth, he has written multiple notable articles on the Arab Spring and Occupy movements along with other social issues. Labor of Dionysus: A Critique of the State-Form (1994) In this book, the authors ask themselves “How is it, then, that labour, with all its life-affirming potential, has become the means of capitalist discipline, exploitation, and domination in modern society?” The authors expose and pursue this paradox through a systematic analysis of the role of labour in the processes of capitalist production and in the establishment of capitalist legal and social institutions. Critiquing liberal and socialist notions of labor and institutional reform from a radical democratic perspective, Hardt and Negri challenge the state-form itself. Insurgencies: Constituent Power and the Modern State (1999) This book, written solely by Negri, “explores the drama of modern revolutions-from Machiavelli’s Florence and Harrington’s England to the American, French, and Russian revolutions-and puts forward a new notion of how power and action must be understood if we are to achieve a radically democratic future.” Empire (2000) In general, the book theorizes an ongoing transition from a “modern” phenomenon of imperialism, centered around individual nation-states, to an emergent postmodern construct created among ruling powers which the authors call “Empire”, with different forms of warfare: …according to Hardt and Negri’s Empire, the rise of Empire is the end of national conflict, the “enemy” now, whoever he is, can no longer be ideological or national. The enemy now must be understood as a kind of criminal, as someone who represents a threat not to a political system or a nation but to the law. This is the enemy as a terrorist… In the “new order that envelops the entire space of… civilization”, where conflict between nations has been made irrelevant, the “enemy” is simultaneously “banalized” (reduced to an object of routine police repression) and absolutized (like the Enemy, an absolute threat to the ethical order”. Empire elaborates a variety of ideas surrounding constitutions, global war, and class. Hence, the Empire is constituted by a monarchy (the United States and the G8, and international organizations such as NATO, the International Monetary Fund or the World Trade Organization), an oligarchy (the multinational corporations and other nation-states) and a democracy (the various non-government organizations and the United Nations). Part of the book’s analysis deals with “imagin[ing] resistance”, but “the point of Empire is that it, too, is “total” and that resistance to it can only take the form of negation – “the will to be against”. The Empire is total, but economic inequality persists, and as all identities are wiped out and replaced with a universal one, the identity of the poor persists. Multitude: War and Democracy in the Age of Empire (2004) Multitude addresses these issues and picks up the thread where Empire has left off. In order to do so, Hardt and Negri argue, one must first analyze the present configuration of war and its contradictions. This analysis is performed in the first chapter, after which chapters two and three focus on multitude and democracy, respectively. Multitude is not so much a sequel as it is a reiteration from a new point of view in a new, relatively accessible style that is distinct from the predominantly academic prose style of Empire. Multitude remains, the authors insist, despite its ubiquitous subject matter and its almost casual tone, a book of philosophy which aims to shape a conceptual ground for a political process of democratization rather than present an answer to the question ‘what to do?’ or offer a programme for concrete action. Commonwealth (2009) In this book, the authors introduce the concept of “the republic of property”: “What is central for our purposes here is that the concept of property and the defence of property remain the foundation of every modern political constitution. This is the sense in which the republic, from the great bourgeois revolutions to today, is a republic of property”. Part 2 of the book deals with the relationship between modernity and anti-modernity and proposes “altermodernity”. Altermodernity “involves not only insertion in the long history of antimodern struggles but also rupture with any fixed dialectic between modern sovereignty and antimodern resistance. In the passage from antimodernity to altermodernity, just as tradition and identity are transformed, so too resistance takes on a new meaning, dedicated now to the constitution of alternatives. The freedom that forms the base of resistance, as we explained earlier, comes to the fore and constitutes an event to announce a new political project.” For Alex Callinicos in a review “What is newest in Commonwealth is its take on the fashionable idea of the common. Hardt and Negri mean by this not merely the natural resources that capital seeks to appropriate, but also “the languages we create, the social practices we establish, the modes of sociality that define our relationships”, which are both the means and the result of biopolitical production. Communism, they argue, is defined by the common, just as capitalism is by the private and socialism (which they identify in effect with statism) with the public.” For David Harvey Negri and Hardt “in the search of an altermodernity – something that is outside the dialectical opposition between modernity and anti-modernity – they need a means of escape. The choice between capitalism and socialism, they suggest, is all wrong. We need to identify something entirely different, communism – working within a different set of dimensions.” Harvey also notes that “Revolutionary thought, Hardt and Negri argue, must find a way to contest capitalism and ‘the republic of property.’ It ‘should not shun identity politics but instead must work through it and learn from it,’ because it is the ‘primary vehicle for struggle within and against the republic of property since identity itself is based on property and sovereignty.’” In the same exchange in Artforum between Harvey and Micheal Hardt and Antonio Negri, Hardt and Negri attempt to correct Harvey in a concept that is important within the argument of Commonwealth. As such, they state that “We instead define the concept of singularity, contrasting it to the figure of the individual on the one hand and forms of identity on the other, by focusing on three aspects of its relationship to multiplicity: Singularity refers externally to a multiplicity of others; is internally divided or multiple; and constitutes a multiplicity over time – that is, a process of becoming.” Occupy movements of 2011–2012 and Declaration In May 2012 Negri self-published (with Michael Hardt) an electronic pamphlet on the occupy and encampment movements of 2011–2012 called Declaration that argues the movement explores new forms of democracy. The introduction was published at Jacobin under the title “Take Up the Baton”. He also published an article with Hardt in Foreign Affairs in October 2011 stating “The Encampment in Lower Manhattan Speaks to a Failure of Representation.” Assembly and Essay Collections (2013-2023) In 2013, Negri published Spinoza: Politics and Postmodernity, a collections of essays on Spinoza and his contemporary relevance to philosophy and political theory, translated into English by William McCuaig. In 2017, Negri and Michael Hardt published Assembly. The book provides a series of reflections on the nature of contemporary capitalism and social movements, drawing together the concepts and ideas explored previously in their Empire ‘trilogy’ such as the common, the multitude, and globalisation. It also introduces a new political concept of ‘assembly’, which draws on Gilles Deleuze and Félix Guattari’s concept of an ‘assemblage’ (French: agencements) as a way of thinking about mass movements and the role of constituent power. It also provides analyses of events that occurred in the years since Commonwealth was published in 2009, such as the rise of right-wing populism, Occupy Wall Street, the automation of work, and the digital economy. It continues their reflections on the character and goals of leaderless movements, and especially focuses on the ways in which these movements can seek to self-organise in radically democratic and egalitarian ways. They propose that instead of the usual model of leadership and movement in which leadership serves to articulate the long-term and ‘large scale’ programme of the multitude, this relationship should instead be inverted: leadership instead comes to serve specific, tactical, and short-term ends (such as the organisation of specific moblisations, protests, direct action, strikes, etc.), while the multitude (or collective) serves to “articulate the long-term goals and objectives” to which the leadership must submit and facilitate. The book received generally positive reviews. Writing for Critical Inquiry, Kyle Perry argues that the central claim of the book is that “advocates for a truly democratic world must no longer refuse the demands of leading, strategizing, decision making, and institution building that can otherwise remain variously secondary, absent, or anathema amid left, liberatory, and progressive causes.” It also rejects as a false binary the idea that liberal-democratic institutions should either be occupied or destroyed; instead, “The better move is to get creative about inventing new, effective, and crucially ‘nonsovereign’ institutions. Such institutions are not meant to ‘rule over us’ but to ‘foster continuity and organization” and to “help organize our practices, manage our relationships, and together make decisions’.” Writing for the Los Angeles Review of Books, Terence Renaud argues that “Given how much the political terrain has changed since Empire appeared in 2000, much of Hardt and Negri’s project appears dead. It has said all that it’s going to say. Even so, the authors do an excellent job of highlighting the internal challenges that a resurgent left will face. Every new left risks degenerating into sectarian conflict, heavy-handed leadership, and complacency about its own righteousness. Hardt and Negri insist on a self-critical and internally democratic left that never ceases to call its own assumptions into question. In order to transform society, the left must first transform itself.” Between 2016 and 2019, Negri published a three-volume collection of essays written in various years, but translated, collected and published together in English in these volumes. The first volume was titled Marx and Foucault, and published on December 16, 2016. In this first volume, Negri aims to show “how the thinking of Marx and Foucault were brought together to create an original theoretical synthesis – particularly in the context of Italy from May ’68 onwards.” The second volume was titled From the Factory to the Metropolis, and was published in February 2018. This second volume turns towards an analysis of the passage from the traditional proletarian ‘mass worker’ of industrial capitalism (especially as found in Marx’s writing) to the contemporary ‘socialised worker’, as well as of the modern ‘metropolis’, which Negri describes as “a space of antagonisms between forms of life produced, on the one hand, by finance capital (the capital that operates around rents), and on the other by the ‘cognitive proletariat’. The central question is then how ‘the common’ of the latter can be mobilised for the destruction of capitalism.” The third and final volume of this ‘trilogy’ was titled Spinoza: Then and Now, and was published in February 2020. In this third volume, Negri “examines how Spinoza’s thought constitutes a radical break with past ideas and an essential tool for envisaging a form of politics beyond capitalism.” On October 29, 2021, Negri published the first volume of a new trilogy of books. This first volume is titled Marx in Movement: Operaismo in Context, and seeks to provide an account and examination of the history of Italian Autonomist (or ‘Autonomist Marxist’) thought, particularly in terms of Negri’s theoretical development of the concept of the ‘social worker’ as an attempt to update Marxism in light of the changes since the factory-based industrial labour of Marx’s time. Quotes “Prison, with its daily rhythm, with the transfer and the defense, does not leave any time; prison dissolves time: This is the principal form of punishment in a capitalist society.” “Nothing in my books has any direct organizational relationship. My responsibility is totally as an intellectual who writes and sells books!” “…it is indeed necessary to recognize as a fact the emergence of the B.R. [Red Brigades] and NAP [Armed Proletariat Nuclei] as the tip of the iceberg of the Movement. This does not require one in any way to transform the recognition into a defense, and this does not in any way deny the grave mistake of the B.R. line. At one point I defined the B.R. as a variable of the movement gone crazy… I state again that terrorism can only be fought through an authentic mass political struggle and inside the revolutionary movement.” In Empire the expansion of capitalism is supposed to be ‘internal’ rather than ‘external,’ in that it “subsumes not the non-capitalist environment but its own capitalist terrain—that is, that the subsumption is no longer formal but real.” ■ Words in the video: Antonio “Toni” Negri (1 August 1933 – 16 December 2023) was an Italian political philosopher known as one of the most prominent theorists of autonomism, as well as for his co-authorship of Empire and his work on Spinoza Born in Padua, he became a political philosophy professor in his hometown university. Negri founded the Potere Operaio (Worker Power) group in 1969 and was a leading member of Autonomia Operaia, and published hugely influential books urging “revolutionary consciousness”. He was accused in the late 1970s of various charges including being the mastermind of the left-wing extremist organization Red Brigades (Brigate Rosse or BR), involved in the May 1978 kidnapping of Aldo Moro, two-time prime minister of Italy, and leader of the Christian-Democrat Party, among others. He was suspected of having made a threatening phone call on behalf of the BR,but the court was unable to conclusively prove his ties.Nevertheless he was convicted in 1984 and sentenced (in absentia) to 30 years in prison. He was given an additional four years on the charge of being ‘morally responsible’ for the violence of political activists in the 1960s and 1970s. The question of Negri’s complicity with left-wing extremism is a controversial subject. He was indicted on a number of charges, including “association and insurrection against the state” (a charge which was later dropped), and sentenced for involvement in two murders. Negri fled to France where, protected by the Mitterrand doctrine, he taught at the Paris VIII (Vincennes) and the Collège international de philosophie, along with Jacques Derrida, Michel Foucault and Gilles Deleuze. In 1997, after a plea-bargain that reduced his prison time from 30 to 13 years,] he returned to Italy to serve the end of his sentence. Many of his most influential books were published while he was behind bars. He hence lived in Venice and Paris with his partner, the French philosopher Judith Revel. He was the father of film director Anna Negri. Like Deleuze, Negri’s preoccupation with Spinoza is well known in contemporary philosophy. Along with Althusser and Deleuze, he has been one of the central figures of a French-inspired Neo-Spinozism in continental philosophy of the late 20th and early 21st centuries, that was the second remarkable Spinoza revival in history, after a well-known rediscovery of Spinoza by German thinkers (especially the German Romantics and Idealists) in the late 18th and early 19th centuries. ■


--- [Italian philosopher Antonio Negri, a long-time friend of the Kurdish ...] ---
Originally published: https://anfenglishmobile.com/news/italian-philosopher-antonio-negri-a-long-time-friend-of-the-kurdish-people-passes-away-70803 Italian philosopher and political scientist Antonio Negri died in Paris at the age of 90. 16 December 2023 | ANF Italian philosopher and political theorist Antonio Negri died at the age of 90. Negri’s death was announced by his daughter Anna Negri on her Instagram account. “It is with great sadness that we learned of the death of philosopher Antonio (Toni) Negri in Paris, last night,” said the Executive Council of the Kurdistan National Congress (KNK) in a message paying tribute to the Italian philosopher. KNK offered their deepest and most sincere condolences to Antonio Negri’s family, saying: “Toni Negri was a close friend of the Kurdish people, always ready to do what was necessary to bring forward the cause of the Kurdistan Liberation Movement.” One of the greatest philosophers of both last and this century, he was an avid reader of Kurdish people’s leader Abdullah Öcalan’s books. He defined Öcalan the “Antonio Gramsci of his land. An example for everyone in the world.” KNK pointed out that: “Toni Negri will be deeply missed by many around the world, including Kurds. Once again, we express our most profound sympathy to his family, comrades, and friends.” About Antonio Negri Negri, also known for his sensitivity to the Kurdish question, said about the imprisonment of Kurdish People’s Leader Abdullah Öcalan: “Like Mandela in the 20th century, Öcalan is a legendary prisoner in the 21st century. In the 21st century, he puts forward a series of concepts that are gradually becoming the building blocks of the political construction of a new world” and reacted against the Turkish state’s genocidal war against the Kurdish people, especially in North and East Syria. Negri was born on 1 August 1933 in Padua, Italy. He joined the Roman Catholic youth movement “Gioventú Italiana di Azione Cattolica” in the early 1950s. In 1956, Negri became a member of the Italian Socialist Party and studied Political Science at the University of Padua. Until 1967, Negri was an assistant at the University of Padua, where he became professor of the Doctrines of the State. In 1969, he was one of the founders of ‘Potere Operaio’ (Workers’ Power), a political group that organised protests in factories representing the workers. After the dissolution of ‘Potere Operaio’ in 1973, Negri joined the political organisation ‘Autonomia Operai Organizzata’ (Autonomous Workers Organisation) and contributed many theoretical articles. Antonio Negri was arrested in April 1979, along with many other members of the ‘Autonomia’ movement; he was charged with alleged links to the ‘Red Brigades’. Negri was also accused of planning the kidnapping and murder of Aldo Moro, leader of the Christian Democratic Party of Italy, in 1978. Although he was absolved from the latter charge, he was convicted in the case and sentenced in absentia to 30 years in prison in 1984. Negri was given a further 4-year sentence for allegedly being ‘morally responsible’ for the violence of political activists in the 1960s and 1970s. Antonio Negri was imprisoned for four years, and he was released after being elected as an MP from the Radical Party list. However, Negri’s immunity was lifted by the Italian Chamber of Deputies. Negri did not return to prison in Italy, but travelled to France with the help of Amnesty International and Félix Guattari. In France, Antonio Negri started to work at the University of Paris VIII in Saint Denis, and among the names Antonio Negri worked with at that time were Alain Badiou and Gilles Deleuze. While living in Paris, Negri met a young student named Michael Hardt and they produced many works together in the following decades. Negri voluntarily returned to Italy in 1997 to serve his prison sentence. His sentence was commuted and he was released in 2003. Antonio Negri and Michael Hardt’s book ‘The Labour of Dionysus’ was published in 1994. Then, in 2000, the duo published the book ‘Empire’, which became an international bestseller. In their book, Negri and Hardt argued that a new form of sovereignty emerged after World War II and called it ‘Empire’. The two thinkers argued that this form of sovereignty is global in nature and is already more powerful than any nation-state. Negri and Hardt also expressed the idea that the new global processes of production, labour management and finance, i.e. globalisation, have changed the composition of capital and in doing so created a new class. According to them, this situation was also opening a new page in the history of class struggle.


--- [Our history | negris] ---
a family's History Occidental, located in the heart of Sonoma county's redwood groves has been known as several different names over the past century. Situated on the highest point of the old narrow gauge railroad that once hauled the giant redwood logs to the mills, the town has variously been named Summitt, Meeker, and Howard. Now officially Occidental, this is the site of Negri's Original Occidental Restaurant. During the days of the railroad, Negri's Occidental was a stopover for many travelers riding the San Francisco-Eureka "Iron Horse". Negri’s Restaurant came to be when Joe Negri Sr. traveled across the Atlantic, leaving the canals of Venice behind. After landing on Ellis Island, Joe soon put all that he knew to work cooking at the Waldorf Astoria. It was there, where he caught the eye of Rudolph Valentino who took him on as his personal chef. His travels with Mr. Valentino led him to San Francisco.! After some time in the Bay Area, Joe moved north to Santa Rosa and started working at Lena’s where he met Theresa. Theresa Tesconi was born May 25, 1910 in Lucca, Italy. After emigrating to the United States, she worked as a waitress at Lena’s in Santa Rosa where she met and soon after married Joe. They had two sons Joe and Albert. The couple moved to Occidental in 1938 and later purchased the site that Negri’s stands on now. Theresa cooked and Joe ran the bar. Joe always had a joke and a quarter for the children as he passed through the dining room to greet the customers. Joe passed on September 5, 1970, leaving the business in the hands of Theresa and their two sons. Joe Jr. took his fathers place in the bar, and Albert went to run the kitchen with his mother. After a morning of preparing, Theresa would spend the afternoon in the bar greeting the customers and talked with them for hours. Joe Jr's son Joe Negri III passed on October 23rd 2005 and Joe Negri Jr. passed on October 22nd 2011. Today, you will see Evelyn Negri (Joe Jr's wife), her daughter Sandy Negri and Sandy's two daughters Amanda and Tori continuing the Negri legacy.


--- [Grokipedia: Antonio Negri] ---
Antonio Negri (1 August 1933 – 16 December 2023) was an Italian Marxist philosopher and political activist renowned for his contributions to autonomist theory, which emphasized the autonomy of the working class from traditional party structures and focused on self-organized resistance against capitalist exploitation.[1][2] Born in Padua to a family with leftist roots—his father co-founded the local Communist Party—Negri became a professor of political philosophy at the University of Padua in the 1960s, where he influenced the operaismo movement through writings on worker subjectivity and class composition.[3][4] He co-authored the bestselling Empire (2000) with Michael Hardt, arguing that globalization had supplanted nation-states with a diffuse imperial sovereignty managed by networked elites, while the multitude—a decentralized proletarian force—held potential for revolutionary counter-power.[5] Negri's philosophy, drawing on Spinoza and Marx, critiqued immaterial labor in post-Fordist economies and advocated refusal of work as a subversive tactic.[6] His activism included co-founding the radical group Potere Operaio in the 1970s, amid Italy's "Years of Lead," a period of violent clashes between left-wing militants and state forces.[7] In 1979, Negri was arrested as part of a sweeping crackdown on autonomists, charged with offenses including armed insurrection and alleged intellectual instigation of Red Brigades terrorism, such as the 1978 murder of Aldo Moro; convicted in absentia after fleeing to France via parliamentary immunity in 1983, he returned voluntarily in 1997 to serve a reduced sentence, securing release in 2003 after partial acquittals and time served.[8][9] Despite imprisonment, Negri produced key texts like Marx Beyond Marx, solidifying his influence on radical thought, though critics contested the evidentiary basis of his convictions amid judicial overreach targeting dissidents.[5][10] Early Life and Education Childhood and Family Background Antonio Negri was born on August 1, 1933, in Padua, a city in the Veneto region of northern Italy, into a working-class family.[11][12] His father, a communist militant and antifascist, faced economic hardship under the Fascist regime and died in 1936, when Negri was approximately three years old, leaving the family to navigate early self-reliance amid limited resources.[12][11]Negri's early years unfolded against the backdrop of World War II, which profoundly impacted Veneto through Allied bombings, food shortages, and displacement; by 1943, when he was ten, the region's industrial areas like Padua suffered direct wartime devastation, exacerbating poverty in working-class households.[13] Family tragedies compounded these hardships, including the death of an older brother who had aligned with Fascist forces during the 1940s.[14] Postwar reconstruction in Veneto involved rapid rural-to-urban migration and economic shifts from agriculture to emerging industry, conditions that marked Negri's formative environment with material scarcity and social upheaval characteristic of Italy's northern working-class communities in the late 1940s.[13][15] Academic Formation and Early Influences Antonio Negri studied philosophy at the University of Padua, where he completed his doctoral thesis on the young Hegel's philosophy of state and right. This work, examining the Enlightenment origins of Hegel's juridical and political thought, was published in 1958 as Stato e diritto nel giovane Hegel. [16]In the early 1960s, Negri secured an academic appointment as professor of dottrina dello Stato (state theory) at the University of Padua, marking a rapid ascent in his scholarly career amid Italy's postwar economic boom, characterized by rapid industrialization and migration from rural to urban areas.[8][17] His initial research focused on historical materialism applied to legal and political philosophy, engaging Hegel's dialectics alongside emerging Marxist interpretations that emphasized class struggle over institutional reformism.Negri's early influences drew from Hegelian idealism transitioned toward a materialist critique, incorporating readings of Marx that prioritized autonomous worker subjectivity over party-mediated strategies, as later evidenced in his divergences from orthodox Marxism. These foundations informed his critiques of state forms and the Italian Communist Party's (PCI) integrationist approach, viewing it as diluting proletarian power in favor of electoral compromises.[7] This intellectual trajectory remained academically oriented, predating his involvement in militant groups during the escalating labor conflicts of the late 1960s. Antonio Negri contributed to the early development of operaismo, or workerism, through his involvement in the founding of the journal Classe Operaia in 1964, alongside Mario Tronti, Romano Alquati, and Rita di Leo.[18] This publication marked a departure from traditional Marxist orthodoxy by prioritizing the autonomous subjectivity of workers in factory struggles over directives from political parties or unions, positing class antagonism as an immanent force arising directly from the labor process rather than imposed from above.[19] Negri and his collaborators argued that capital's command was continually reshaped by workers' refusal to submit, inverting the conventional view of capital as the driver of history.[20]In analyzing 1960s industrial conflicts, particularly the wildcat strikes at Fiat's Turin plants in 1962 and 1963, Negri emphasized empirical evidence of workers bypassing union mediation to assert direct control over production rhythms.[21] These actions, involving thousands of Fiat workers demanding higher wages and shorter hours without official endorsement, demonstrated for operaismo theorists how refusal of work disrupted value extraction at its source, compelling capital to reorganize rather than workers merely reacting to capitalist initiatives.[22] Negri's writings highlighted such struggles as causal mechanisms for class recomposition, where proletarian sabotage and absenteeism quantitatively reduced output, forcing concessions that revealed the primacy of worker agency.[23]Operaismo under Negri's influence critiqued traditional Leninism for subordinating worker initiatives to party vanguards, advocating instead an analysis of "class composition" derived from concrete factory dynamics.[24] Unions were seen as co-opted institutions that channeled militancy into economic bargaining, diluting its political potential; for instance, operaismo observed how Italian trade unions in the early 1960s mediated strikes to preserve industrial peace, thereby stabilizing capital's command over the working day.[20] This perspective shifted focus from prescriptive ideology to the historical specificity of worker behaviors, such as the spread of unofficial assemblies in chemical and auto sectors, which operaismo documented as evidence of an emergent, self-organizing proletarian power independent of institutionalized left structures.[25] Leadership in Potere Operaio and Autonomia Operaia Antonio Negri co-founded the radical workerist group Potere Operaio in 1969 alongside figures such as Oreste Scalzone and Franco Piperno, positioning it as a key organizer of militant actions in the wake of Italy's "Hot Autumn" strikes of 1969.[26] The group coordinated factory occupations and wildcat strikes, emphasizing proletarian autonomy over traditional union structures, with Negri contributing theoretical writings that framed these struggles as expressions of class self-valorization.[27] Potere Operaio also promoted tactics like the refusal of work and direct interventions in production processes, influencing escalating worker militancy in industrial centers like Turin and Milan during 1970-1972.[28]By 1973, internal debates over organizational form—particularly whether to maintain a structured group or dissolve into broader social movements—led to Potere Operaio's official dissolution on June 3, with many members, including Negri, integrating into the emerging "Area of Autonomia."[27] This shift reflected disagreements on balancing vanguard coordination with spontaneous proletarian initiative, amid a perceived crisis in factory-based struggles as capital reorganized production.[8]Following the group's end, Negri assumed a prominent leadership role in Autonomia Operaia from 1976, a decentralized network of collectives that rejected the clandestine, hierarchical models of groups like the Brigate Rosse in favor of "mass illegality" through open, widespread refusal of capitalist norms.[26]Autonomia coordinated actions such as rent and utility self-reductions, neighborhood assemblies, and confrontational demonstrations, with Negri's influence evident in publications advocating proletarian self-organization across social terrains beyond the factory.[29]In 1977, Autonomia's tactics intersected with the broader "Movement of 77," culminating in violent clashes in Bologna on March 11 after police killed student Francesco Lorusso, prompting riots involving thousands that saw barricades, arson, and direct confrontations with security forces.[30] Negri's writings and speeches during this period endorsed "creative violence" as proletarian self-defense against state repression, framing such actions as necessary escalations in class antagonism that paralleled rising urban unrest and state countermeasures in the "Years of Lead.".pdf) This rhetoric contributed to the diffuse militancy of Autonomia, linking everyday resistances to intensified cycles of conflict without adopting terrorist structures.[27] Arrest, Accusations, and Legal Battles 1979 Arrest and Terrorism Charges On April 7, 1979, Italian authorities arrested Antonio Negri in Padua as part of Operation 7 April, a coordinated police action targeting suspected leaders of the Autonomia Operaia movement and broader autonomist networks, which led to the immediate detention of over 100 individuals and subsequent investigations affecting thousands more.[7][31]Negri was charged under anti-terrorism statutes with offenses including incitement to armed insurrection against the constitutional order, association for purposes of terrorism and subversion, and specific involvement in the Red Brigades' kidnapping and murder of former Prime Minister Aldo Moro on May 9, 1978, along with allegations of de facto leadership within that group.[32][33]The arrests unfolded against the backdrop of the "Years of Lead," Italy's protracted era of leftist and rightist extremism from the late 1960s through the 1980s, marked by bombings, assassinations, and street clashes that fueled public fear and state repression.[34]In this context, emergency legislation such as the 1975 Legge Reale had expanded law enforcement powers, permitting warrantless stops, searches, and detentions of up to 96 hours—measures that curtailed conventional habeas corpus safeguards and enabled prolonged preventive custody amid rising attacks.[35]Negri was promptly transferred to a maximum-security facility and subjected to the "carcere duro" isolation regime, entailing 23-hour daily solitary confinement with restricted communication, a practice applied to suspected terrorists to prevent coordination and which he endured for over four years prior to any trial proceedings.[36] Evidence, Trials, and Contested Guilt The primary evidence presented by Italian authorities linking Antonio Negri to the Red Brigades (BR) and the 1978 kidnapping and murder of former Prime MinisterAldo Moro consisted of voiceprint analysis of anonymous telephone calls made by the BR to Moro's family, which prosecutors asserted matched Negri's voice, including a warning of Moro's execution.[37] This purported identification formed the basis for his April 7, 1979, arrest amid broader charges of BR leadership and orchestrating the Moro operation.[31] However, the voice analysis faced immediate challenges during interrogation and subsequent proceedings, with defense experts disputing its accuracy due to methodological limitations and lack of corroboration, leading to its evidentiary weight being undermined.[31] No physical or forensic traces—such as fingerprints, weapons, or documents—connected Negri directly to the Moro abduction site, execution location, or BR communiqués beyond the contested audio.[38]Negri's trials, conducted largely in absentia after his 1983 flight to France, resulted in acquittals or dismissals on core terrorism accusations, including direct involvement in the Moro murder and BR command structure, owing to prosecutors' failure to substantiate material participation amid emergency anti-terrorism laws.[38] Courts instead secured convictions on lesser but related counts: in 1983, for incitement to rebellion tied to 1970s writings and speeches; and by 1984, for association with an armed subversive band under Article 270-bis of the Italian penal code, yielding a 30-year sentence.[36] An additional 12-year term stemmed from glorification of delinquency and resistance against public order, aggregated from Autonomia Operaia activities, though some charges like full-scale insurrection were later vacated for evidentiary gaps.[39] These outcomes reflected judicial reliance on ideological proximity rather than concrete acts, with sentences totaling over 30 years but subject to amnesties upon his 1997 return, after which he served 18 months before release.[38]Contestation of Negri's guilt centers on the disconnect between his overt autonomist advocacy—publicly endorsing worker sabotage, factory disruptions, and "armed propaganda" in pre-1979 texts like those praising comrades' Molotov cocktail use as proletarian self-defense—and the BR's clandestine, hierarchical terrorism.[31][40] Autonomia Operaia's mass-based, non-vanguardist tactics contrasted with BR secrecy, yet overlapping anti-state invective and Negri's refusal to disavow violence in class conflict sustained prosecutorial narratives of moral complicity, absent causal proof of operational ties.[38] Independent inquiries, including post-trial reviews, affirmed insufficient links to BR atrocities, attributing convictions to the era's politicized "repentant" testimonies and broad anti-extremist statutes rather than irrefutable forensics.[41] Imprisonment, Exile in France, and Eventual Return Negri was arrested on April 7, 1979, amid Italy's "Years of Lead" crackdown on leftist extremism, facing charges including subversive association, insurrection against the state, and alleged leadership of the Red Brigades in connection with the 1978 kidnapping and murder of former Prime Minister Aldo Moro. He endured nearly four years of pre-trial detention in high-security facilities, a duration criticized by groups like Amnesty International for exceeding norms even under Italy's anti-terrorism laws, which permitted extended holds without bail for suspected political crimes.[42][10][43]In June 1983, Negri secured election to the Italian Chamber of Deputies via the Radical Party's list, invoking parliamentary immunity that prompted his provisional release after over four years incarcerated. Immunity was swiftly revoked by a parliamentary vote later that year, prompting his flight to France by sailboat with assistance from sympathizers including Félix Guattari. There, he benefited from the Mitterrand doctrine, a policy under President François Mitterrand granting refuge to Italian militants accused of political rather than "blood crimes" (direct violence), shielding approximately 200-300 exiles from extradition and straining Franco-Italian diplomatic ties amid Italy's demands for repatriation. This asylum framework prioritized ideological offenses over common criminality, enabling Negri and peers like Cesare Battisti to evade Italian justice while residing openly.[44][45][46]From 1983 to 1997, Negri's Paris exile proved intellectually fertile despite ongoing Italian warrants, with affiliations at Paris VIII University (Vincennes-Saint-Denis) and the Collège International de Philosophie providing platforms for seminars and collaborations; manuscripts were frequently routed through networks to bypass scrutiny. In absentia trials culminated in a 1984 conviction for heading a "subversive association" and armed band under Article 270-bis of Italy's penal code, yielding a 30-year term, plus four years for "moral and objective" responsibility for autonomist violence—convictions predicated on his writings and organizational role rather than forensic ties to specific acts like bombings or the Moro case, from which he was cleared. Absent exoneration, these outcomes underscored the era's judicial emphasis on ideological culpability over direct perpetration, a pattern in prosecutions of over 1,000 autonomists where evidence often hinged on inferred command structures amid emergency laws.[9][8][47]Anticipating legal closure under a center-left government, Negri returned voluntarily in July 1997 via plea bargain, commuting his sentence to 13 years total—accounting for time served—and forgoing appeals; he completed the balance in Rebibbia Prison near Rome until conditional release on April 4, 2003, after 18 months of the reduced term. This resolution, devoid of pardon or acquittal, mirrored trajectories of other Mitterrand-protected exiles facing repatriation incentives, as France curtailed the doctrine post-Cold War amid EU harmonization pressures, compelling many to negotiate amid unresolved convictions for associational offenses.[48][3][7] Philosophical and Theoretical Framework Autonomism, Constituent Power, and Critique of State Forms Negri's autonomist framework posits the working class as an autonomous subject whose struggles precede and shape capitalist restructuring, emphasizing self-valorization as the proletariat's capacity to generate value outside capital's logic through practices like work refusal, sabotage, and cooperative networks that destructurate exploitation at its root.[40][49] This concept inverts Marx's valorization by framing proletarian activity not merely as reactive resistance but as proactive construction of alternative social relations, where needs expansion and autonomous production undermine capital's command over labor.[50]Autonomism thus rejects vanguardist or party-mediated revolution, viewing the class's immanent power as sufficient to drive systemic antagonism without transcendent mediation.Constituent power, a cornerstone of Negri's ontology, denotes the multitude's creative potentia—an immanent, productive force rooted in Spinoza's philosophy—capable of generating novel social forms beyond institutional bounds, in opposition to potestas, the state's transcendent sovereignty that captures and alienates this power into constituted hierarchies.[51][52] For Negri, the multitude's constituent capacity manifests as extra-legal insurgency, perpetually escaping state representation, which he critiques as a false unification that domesticates popular creativity into repressive apparatuses; this dynamic underscores autonomism's rejection of sovereignty as inherently antagonistic to the biopolitical productivity of social subjects.[53]Negri's critique of state forms targets Keynesianism and Fordism as reactive strategies to contain 1960s proletarian refusals, where mass insubordination disrupted accumulation by prioritizing needs over productivity, prompting capital to deploy welfare planning and assembly-line intensification as crisis management.[54] The 1969 Italian "Hot Autumn" strikes provided empirical grounding, as waves of factory occupations and wildcat actions—beginning at Fiat's Turin plants and spreading nationwide—involved refusal of work hierarchies and demands for self-reduction of prices, marking biopolitical resistance that halted production and exemplified constituent power's eruption against Fordist discipline.[55][56] These struggles correlated with Italy's labor productivity slowdown, from average annual gains of approximately 5.5% in the 1950s-1960s to under 2% in the 1970s, which Negri attributes to autonomous class power eroding capital's extractive efficiency rather than exogenous factors alone, rendering state interventions like Keynesian demand management mere palliatives that deferred rather than resolved the underlying valorization crisis.[57][58] Spinozist Interpretations and Immaterial Labor Negri's philosophical engagement with Baruch Spinoza emphasizes the rehabilitation of the Dutch thinker's metaphysics to counter Hobbesian paradigms of sovereignty grounded in fear and subjection. In works such as his 1981 study L'anomalia selvaggia, Negri interprets Spinoza's multitudo as a constitutive, creative force embodying collective potentia—the immanent power of singularities composing through joyful encounters that augment existence—rather than a passive multitude subdued by transcendent potestas. This Spinozist lens privileges affective dynamics, where bodies increase their power (conatus) via composition and escape sad passions, providing a metaphysical basis for resistance against state and capital forms that impose scarcity and hierarchy. [59]This ontology underpins Negri's theorization of immaterial labor as the dominant form of production in post-Fordist economies, shifting from the operaismo tradition's emphasis on industrial, material antagonism to biopolitical production encompassing cognitive, linguistic, and affective activities. Immaterial labor generates value not through physical commodities but via the creation of ideas, codes, relationships, and subjectivities that reproduce social life itself. [60] Negri argues that such labor, exemplified in sectors like information technology and care services, operates as a site of potential exodus, where workers' cooperative capacities produce commons—shared knowledge and affects—autonomously from wage relations. [61]The transition reflects empirical changes in labor composition, particularly in Italy, where post-1970s deindustrialization and neoliberal reforms elevated precarity: the 1997 Treu Package and 2001 Biagi Law expanded fixed-term and temporary contracts, raising atypical employment from under 5% in the early 1990s to approximately 12% of total workforce by 2000, with youth precariousness exceeding 30%. [62] Capital captures these biopolitical potentials through precarity's mechanisms—intermittent contracts, debt, and intensified control over desires—yet Negri contends, drawing on Spinoza, that immaterial labor's inherent productivity enables constituent processes outside exploitation, fostering non-alienated cooperation via joyful, self-valorizing encounters. [63] This view posits labor as ontologically prior to capital, with biopolitical exodus disrupting capture by redirecting affective investments toward common wealth. [64] Views on Violence and Revolutionary Strategy Negri's early theoretical framework positioned violence as an intrinsic, ontological feature of proletarian antagonism within capitalist relations, arising from the very composition of the working class rather than as a tactical add-on. In texts such as Domination and Sabotage (1977), he described this as the "dawning violence" inherent in class consciousness, manifesting in everyday acts of refusal and disruption that reveal capital's own coercive logic.[40] This view framed antagonistic violence—proletarian sabotage and resistance—as a counter to capital's "submissive violence," which enforces exploitation through structural domination, rather than mere episodic outbursts.[65]While Negri differentiated autonomist practices of diffuse, mass illegality from the centralized, vanguardist terrorism of groups like the Red Brigades—rejecting the latter as a deviation that risked state co-optation—his emphasis on proletarian self-activity implicitly endorsed broader confrontational tactics. Revolutionary strategy centered on a decentralized "war of maneuver" through sabotage, absenteeism, desertion from production, and self-reduction of work, aiming to erode capital's command without reliance on party mediation or traditional insurrection.[66] These methods, drawn from operaismo's analysis of factory struggles in 1960s-1970s Italy, sought to weaponize proletarian autonomy against the wage relation itself. However, empirically, such strategies exhibited a causal shortfall: they intensified cycles of state repression—evident in the autonomist movement's fragmentation by the late 1970s—without generating sustainable revolutionary momentum, as workerist disruptions failed to coalesce into systemic overthrow amid capital's adaptive countermeasures.[67][68]Reflecting on autonomia's historical defeat in the 1980s, Negri's post-exile writings marked a pivot toward less overtly violent paradigms, prioritizing the multitude's biopolitical capacities for exodus and refusal over direct sabotage. In collaboration with Michael Hardt, works like Multitude: War and Democracy in the Age of Empire (2004) reconceived resistance as non-violent democratic experimentation, where the multitude confronts imperial war through networked desertion and commoning, eschewing the pitfalls of prior escalatory confrontations that had empirically reinforced rather than dismantled state power.[69] This evolution acknowledged violence's coexistence with struggle but subordinated it to "elastic" capacities for disruption, critiquing armed vanguardism as illusory while recognizing the non-realization of earlier autonomist aims.[67][70] Major Works and Intellectual Evolution Pre-Exile Publications on Labor and Insurgency In Proletari e Stato (1976), Negri analyzed the Italian state's interventions in the labor process as mechanisms to recompose class relations amid rising worker antagonism, drawing on observations of factory struggles in sectors like automotive manufacturing, where proletarian refusals of work disrupted capital's technical organization.[27] He contended that state planning and social welfare apparatuses extended the factory beyond its walls into a "social factory," reactively containing the expansive subversive potential of the mass proletarian subject formed during the 1969 Hot Autumn strikes, which involved over 200,000 workers in wildcat actions independent of official unions.[71] This empirical focus on Italy's postwar industrial composition highlighted how proletarian autonomy—evident in rank-and-file committees rejecting wage compromises—forced the state to assume functions traditionally held by capital, thereby exposing its dependence on class conflict for legitimacy.[72]Negri's arguments critiqued the Italian Communist Party's (PCI) historic compromise with Christian Democracy, positing that true proletarian power lay in refusing mediation and directly sabotaging state-capital alliances, as seen in the refusal of overtime and piecework in Turin factories during the early 1970s.[73] These publications grounded autonomist theory in concrete insurgencies, contrasting with prior Leninist models by emphasizing the proletariat's self-valorization through refusal rather than seizure of state power.[74]During his imprisonment from 1979 to 1983, Negri drafted elements of what became Insurgencies: Constituent Power and the Modern State (published 1992), offering a typology of historical revolts where constituent power— the creative, democratic force of the multitude—clashed with constituted power's stabilizing capture.[75] He traced this dynamic from the English Revolution (1642–1651), where Leveller demands for popular sovereignty prefigured modern democracy before monarchical restoration, to the Paris Commune of 1871, where workers' councils embodied direct constituent experimentation against state centralization.[52] Similar patterns appeared in the Russian Soviets of 1905 and 1917, initially driven by factory assemblies but later subsumed by Bolshevik state-building.[76]Negri extended this framework to Italy's 1970s cycle of struggles, interpreting phenomena like the 1969–1973 factory occupations and autonomous assemblies as constituent surges that compelled reactive state reforms, such as emergency decrees expanding police powers and flexibilizing labor laws to preempt broader insurgency. States, in his view, originated not as neutral arbiters but as institutional responses to proletarian constituent initiatives, perpetually vulnerable to their renewal, as evidenced by the failure of constituted forms to fully domesticate the 1970s "refusal of work" strategy.[77] This pre-exile emphasis on localized, empirical insurgencies distinguished Negri's early output from abstract theorizing, prioritizing causal chains from workplace antagonism to state mutation.[78] Empire Trilogy with Michael Hardt The first volume, Empire, published in 2000 by Harvard University Press, posits a transformation in global sovereignty from nation-state imperialism to a decentralized "Empire" characterized by networked, supranational institutions exercising biopolitical control over populations.[79] Hardt and Negri argue that this new order transcends traditional borders, integrating economic, cultural, and political flows under a singular logic of rule without a fixed center, while introducing the "multitude" as a diffuse, creative counter-power capable of resisting through exodus and common production.[79] However, this framework overlooks the persistence of national boundaries, as evidenced by the proliferation of physical barriers post-9/11, such as the U.S.-Mexico border fortifications initiated in 2006 and Israel's West Bank security barrier completed in phases from 2002, which reinforced state sovereignty rather than its dissolution.[80]In Multitude: War and Democracy in the Age of Empire, released in 2004, the authors extend the analysis by framing perpetual war as the Empire's constitutive paradigm, akin to internal policing rather than interstate conflict, and advocate for the multitude's realization of democracy through networked commons and biopolitical production.[81] The trilogy concludes with Commonwealth in 2009, proposing a revolutionary transition to a "common" realm where the multitude institutes a propertyless republic, emphasizing institutions of love, poverty, and exodus to overcome capitalist enclosures.[82]Empire achieved unexpected commercial success for an academic text, selling rapidly upon release and influencing activist discourses, including the Occupy Wall Street movement of 2011, where Hardt and Negri situated the protests within broader cycles of global struggles against Empire.[83] Yet, the trilogy's prognosis of Empire's internal contradictions leading to its self-overcoming via the multitude has not materialized empirically; instead, phenomena like the 2016 Brexit referendum, which reaffirmed national borders and sovereignty, and the resurgence of protectionist policies under figures such as Donald Trump from 2017 onward, indicate a reassertion of state-centric nationalism contradicting the predicted decentering of power.[84] Academic critiques further highlight that nation-state sovereignty endures through uneven neoliberal dynamics, undermining claims of a borderless imperial order.[85] Post-2000 Writings on Multitude and Commonwealth In 2012, Antonio Negri co-authored Declaration with Michael Hardt as an electronic pamphlet responding to the 2011 global protest waves, including Occupy Wall Street and encampments linked to the Arab Spring.[86] The text frames these actions as declarations by the multitude against austerity measures, sovereign debt crises, and financial predation, emphasizing networked encampments as sites for collective experimentation in commoning practices.[87] Negri and Hardt posited that immaterial labor networks facilitated a global "refusal of work" and biopolitical exodus, enabling synchronized refusals across borders without centralized leadership.[88]This work extended their multitude concept by advocating a transition from mere declaration to constitutional processes, where the multitude could institutionalize horizontal governance through digital commons and shared knowledge production.[89] However, the causal efficacy of these immaterial networks in sustaining revolutionarymomentum remains empirically contested, as the movements often devolved into symbolic gestures amid state repression and internal disorganization.[90]By 2017, in Assembly, Negri and Hardt refined their theory to address the strategic deficits of leaderless movements, proposing that the multitude's diverse subjects—encompassing cognitive laborers, students, migrants, and precarious workers—could coalesce into a constituent assembly for counter-power formation.[91] They critiqued traditional vanguardism, inverting revolutionary labor to prioritize assembly over representation, with the aim of forging enduring commons against capitalist extraction.[92]Yet, post-2011 data underscores the unfulfilled nature of these prophecies: Occupy Wall Street's core encampment was dismantled by police on November 15, 2011, leading to rapid dissipation, with participant numbers dropping over 90% within months and no viable institutional legacies emerging.[93] Similar fragmentation afflicted Arab Spring offshoots, where horizontal structures failed to consolidate power against counter-revolutionary forces, resulting in restored authoritarianism or civil strife rather than multitude-led commonwealths.[94] Negri's insistence on networked horizontality overlooked causal barriers like elite capture and the absence of scalable decision-making, yielding movements potent in disruption but deficient in governance.[95] Influence, Reception, and Criticisms Adoption in Anti-Globalization and Occupy Movements The concepts articulated in Empire (2000), co-authored by Antonio Negri and Michael Hardt, retrospectively framed the November 1999 World Trade Organization protests in Seattle as an early manifestation of the "multitude," an anti-hierarchical, networked force opposing global capital's structures.[96] These protests, involving diverse coalitions blocking delegates and disrupting meetings, aligned with Negri's autonomist emphasis on constituent power emerging from below, providing a theoretical vocabulary for interpreting the actions as singular yet common resistances rather than unified proletarian struggles.[84] However, while Empire's publication followed closely, direct causal influence on Seattle's tactics remains limited, as the book's ideas crystallized amid rather than prior to the events; subsequent anti-globalization actions, such as those at Genoa in 2001, echoed multitude rhetoric in rejecting centralized leadership for decentralized affinity groups.[97]In the 2011 Occupy Wall Street encampment and parallel global occupations, Negri's notions of the "commons" and horizontalism found explicit invocation, with participants creating leaderless assemblies to reclaim public space as shared resources against financial enclosure.[98] Hardt and Negri endorsed these efforts in their October 2011 Foreign Affairs article, portraying the Zuccotti Park occupation as a response to representational failures, where direct democracy via general assemblies embodied the multitude's self-organization without vanguard parties.[98] Activists distributed Empire and Multitude (2004), using terms like precariat—drawn from Negri's immaterial labor thesis—to articulate gig economy vulnerabilities, fostering a discourse on affective and cognitive work's exploitation.[99]Empirically, these adoptions contributed to short-term mobilizations: Occupy encampments peaked with over 600 U.S. sites by October 2011, raising inequality awareness and influencing discourse on the 99% versus 1%, yet dispersed by early 2012 due to evictions and internal consensus paralysis, yielding no major policy shifts like transaction taxes.[100] Similarly, anti-globalization protests post-Seattle declined after 2001, with multilateral institution-targeted actions dropping from peaks in 1999-2000 to sporadic events by 2018, as horizontal tactics hindered sustained coalitions or electoral translations, prioritizing occupation over hierarchical strategy.[101] While providing analytical tools for precarity, Negri-inspired horizontalism correlated with movements' fragmentation, lacking mechanisms for longevity beyond spectacle.[102] Theoretical Critiques from Marxist and Conservative Perspectives From a traditional Marxist standpoint, Negri's autonomist framework has been faulted for prioritizing proletarian spontaneity and self-valorization over the necessity of a vanguard party to provide strategic direction and organizational discipline, thereby risking dissipation of revolutionary energy into fragmented refusals rather than coordinated class struggle.[103] This critique echoes Leninist emphases on the party as the conscious articulator of working-class interests against capitalist resilience, which Negri's rejection of hierarchical forms allegedly underestimates by conflating immediate worker autonomy with sustainable political power.[103] Similarly, the Empire thesis of a deterritorialized, borderless global order has drawn rebuttals for overlooking the enduring structures of imperialism, where nation-states reinforce sovereignty through mechanisms like fortified migration controls—evident in the European Union's expansion of Frontex operations since 2005—and escalating trade conflicts, such as the U.S.-China tariff impositions beginning in 2018 that fragmented supposed seamless capital flows.[104][105]Conservative theorists, while less inclined to engage Negri's oeuvre directly, have viewed his exaltation of the multitude as a diffuse, leaderless force of constituent power as inherently destabilizing, romanticizing anarchic withdrawal from constituted authority and thereby eroding the rule of law that underpins civil order and property relations.[106] This perspective holds that Negri's ontology of creative refusal fosters a politics of perpetual disruption without constructive governance, implicitly privileging existential rebellion over the pragmatic hierarchies required for societal stability.[106] Furthermore, his theoretical defense of constituent power as an originary, extra-legal force has been interpreted as providing retrospective ideological cover for the armed violence of 1970s Italian extra-parliamentary groups, including over 14,000 recorded acts of political terrorism between 1969 and 1980, by framing such actions as legitimate expressions of popular sovereignty against state ossification rather than criminal subversion.[107]Empirically, Negri's prognostications of a multitude-driven transition to commonwealth have faltered, with no observable supplanting of imperial forms by networked commons; instead, state apparatuses have adapted through intensified surveillance and border enforcement, while global inequality metrics—such as the World Inequality Database's record of the top 1% capturing 38% of global wealth by 2021—have intensified amid immaterial labor's purported rise, contradicting expectations of egalitarian diffusion from cognitive capitalism.[108][104] These outcomes underscore critiques that Negri's optimism neglects the inertial strength of constituted power and the material barriers to spontaneous multitudes achieving hegemony. Empirical Failures and Unintended Consequences of His Ideas The autonomist emphasis on mass workerism and refusal of work in 1970s Italy provoked escalating confrontations with capital and the state, culminating in widespread repression that dismantled the movement without achieving proletarian self-organization. Tactics such as factory sabotage and diffuse militancy, advocated by figures like Negri, intensified cycles of struggle but alienated potential allies and justified emergency measures, including the 1979 "7 April" arrests targeting over 300 autonomists, including Negri himself.[26][109] This repression, supported by both Christian Democrats and the Italian Communist Party, fragmented autonomist networks and contributed to the broader marginalization of the extra-parliamentary left by the early 1980s.[55][110]The defeat of Autonomia Operaia cleared the path for neoliberal restructuring, as the weakened labor movement failed to resist deregulation. Post-1979, Italy saw the erosion of rigid labor protections established during the 1960s-1970s, with governments under Craxi and subsequent coalitions introducing flexibility measures that prioritized capital mobility over worker security.[111] Union density, which peaked at approximately 50% in the late 1970s amid the "Hot Autumn" mobilizations, declined steadily thereafter, reaching around 35% by the 1990s and further eroding to 32.5% by 2019, contradicting autonomist claims of self-valorization enhancing worker power.[112][113][114] Key reforms, such as the 1997 Treu Package legalizing temporary contracts and the 2015 Jobs Act easing dismissals, entrenched precarity, with youth unemployment surging above 30% in the 2010s, outcomes traceable to the earlier erosion of militant structures.[115]Unintended consequences included the inspiration for unaccountable extremism that backfired strategically. Autonomist promotion of "armed joy" and spontaneous violence normalized low-level confrontations but fed into the "Years of Lead" terrorism, where groups like the Red Brigades escalated without mass base, provoking backlash that discredited the entire left.[26][55] This horizontal, anti-hierarchical approach, while rejecting traditional parties, prevented the formation of durable alternatives, leaving the field open to populist formations that captured working-class discontent in the 1990s-2010s through vertical organization. Later appropriations of Negri's multitude concept in movements like Occupy yielded fragmented protests—e.g., the 2011 Italian indignant camps dissipated without policy gains—while coherent right-wing populism, as in the League's rise, achieved electoral power by addressing economic grievances autonomism overlooked.[25][116] Later Life and Death Personal Relationships and Post-Release Activities Negri married Paola Meo in 1962, with whom he had a son, Francesco, and two daughters, Anna and Nina; the couple later divorced.[3] In 1996, he began a relationship with philosopher Judith Revel, whom he married in 2016.[3] Public details about his family life were limited, as Negri maintained privacy regarding personal matters while residing primarily in Paris, France.[3]After his release from prison on May 23, 2003, following the completion of a 10-year term from a 13-year sentence, Negri resumed academic engagements, including serving as faculty in the Division of Philosophy, Art, and Critical Thought at the European Graduate School in Saas-Fee, Switzerland.[1] He participated in lectures, such as joint sessions with collaborator Michael Hardt on topics including capitalist control and forms of life, delivered at the institution in 2014.[117] Throughout the 2000s and 2010s, Negri sustained productivity through interviews and discussions, including a 2017 dialogue on social movements and living labor.[118] These activities linked to his ongoing scholarly output without public emphasis on activism or health developments at the time.[1] Final Years, Health Decline, and Passing in 2023 Negri spent his final years residing in Paris, continuing limited intellectual activities amid the physical limitations of advanced age.[119][3] Health challenges associated with his 80s and 90s, including longstanding respiratory issues from youth, contributed to a gradual decline, though he remained engaged in autobiographical reflections on comradeship and struggle until shortly before his death.[14] In these later writings, Negri contemplated the ethical dimensions of life over death, drawing from Spinoza, but acknowledged the non-realization of the revolutionary processes he had theorized, as horizontal multitude-based insurgencies failed to supplant state sovereignty amid empirical rises in nationalist populism, such as Italy's 2022 shift under Giorgia Meloni's leadership.[119][14]On December 16, 2023, Negri died in Paris at the age of 90 from natural causes, as announced by his daughter Anna Negri via social media.[120][3][121] His passing concluded a trajectory where autonomist ideas retained academic influence—evident in citations within leftist scholarship—but showed limited practical uptake, with causal chains of capitalist crisis failing to yield the commonwealth he envisioned, instead correlating with persistent statist and populist realignments observable in electoral data from 2016 onward.[122][13]
