=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[President of India launches Pradhan Mantri TB Mukt Bharat ...]
Sep 9, 2022 · The President of India, Smt Droupadi Murmu virtually launched the Pradhan Mantri TB Mukt Bharat Abhiyaan today (September 9, 2022). Speaking on the occasion, the President said that it is the duty of all citizens to give high priority to 'Pradhan Mantri TB-Mukt Bharat Abhiyaan' and to make this campaign a mass movement.
URL: https://pib.gov.in/PressReleaseIframePage.aspx?PRID=1858024

[Pradhan Mantri TB Mukt Bharat Abhiyaan [PMTBMBA]]
To galvanize efforts towards TB elimination, Her Excellency, Smt. Droupadi Murmu,Hon’ble President of India on 9th September 2022 launched “Pradhan Mantri TB Mukt Bharat Abhiyan ‘’. PMTBMBA aims at community support to TB patients.
URL: https://ntep.in/node/4517/CP-pradhan-mantri-tb-mukt-bharat-abhiyaan-pmtbmba

[President to launch “Pradhan Mantri TB Mukt Bharat Abhiyaan ...]
Sep 9, 2022 · President Droupadi Murmu will virtually launch the `Pradhan Mantri TB Mukt Bharat Abhiyaan’ on September 9. This is aimed at working towards TB elimination from the country by 2025,...
URL: https://www.thehindu.com/news/national/president-to-launch-pradhan-mantri-tb-mukt-bharat-abhiyaan-on-september-9/article65866612.ece

[National TB Elimination Programme | NATIONAL HEALTH MISSION ...]
Under the National Tuberculosis Eradication Program, ‘Pradhan Mantri TB Mukt Bharat Abhiyan’ was launched by the Honorable President on 07 September 2022 and by the Honorable Governor of Uttarakhand on 17 September 2022 to support TB patients in additional nutrition, testing and treatment etc.
URL: https://nhm.uk.gov.in/division/national-tb-elimination-programme/

[President Droupadi Murmu launches 'Pradhan Mantri TB Mukt ...]
Sep 9, 2022 · New Delhi [India], September 9 (ANI): President Droupadi Murmu through a virtual event on September 9, launched ‘Pradhan Mantri TB Mukt Bharat Abhiyaan’ to eliminate TB by 2025.
URL: https://www.zee5.com/articles/president-droupadi-murmu-launches-pradhan-mantri-tb-mukt-bharat-abhiyaan-to-eliminate-tb-by-2025


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [President of India launches Pradhan Mantri TB Mukt Bharat ...] ---
President's Secretariat President of India launches Pradhan Mantri TB Mukt Bharat Abhiyaan Posted On: 09 SEP 2022 3:17PM by PIB Delhi The President of India, Smt Droupadi Murmu virtually launched the Pradhan Mantri TB Mukt Bharat Abhiyaan today (September 9, 2022). Speaking on the occasion, the President said that it is the duty of all citizens to give high priority to 'Pradhan Mantri TB-Mukt Bharat Abhiyaan' and to make this campaign a mass movement. It is because TB causes the largest number of deaths among all other infectious diseases in our country. She noted that India has a little less than 20 percent of the world's population, but has more than 25 percent of the total TB patients of the world. This is a matter of concern. She also noted that most of the people affected by TB come from the poor section of society. The President said that the thinking and methodology of ‘New India’ is to make India a leading nation of the world. India has set an example to the world in tackling the COVID-19 pandemic. The policy of ‘New India’ to move forward with confidence is also visible in the field of TB eradication. According to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals, all nations have set the goal of eradicating TB by the year 2030. But the Government of India has set the target of eradicating TB by the year 2025 and efforts are being made at every level to fulfill this resolution. The President said that to make this campaign a mass movement, awareness about TB has to be created among the people. They have to be informed that prevention of this disease is possible. Its treatment is effective and accessible and the government provides a free of cost facility for prevention and treatment of this disease. She said that in some patients or communities, there is an inferiority complex associated with this disease, and they view the disease as a stigma. This illusion also has to be eradicated. Everyone should be aware that TB germs are often present in everyone's body. When the immunity of a person, due to some reason, decreases, then this disease expresses in the person. With treatment, one can definitely get rid of this disease. All these things should reach the people. Then the people affected by TB will be able to take advantage of the treatment facilities. The Pradhan Mantri TB Mukt Bharat Abhiyaan has been envisioned to bring together all community stakeholders to support those on TB treatment and accelerate the country’s progress towards TB elimination. The virtual event was attended by Union Minister of Health and Family Welfare, Dr. Mansukh Mandaviya, Minister of State for Health and Family Welfare, Dr. Bharati Pravin Pawar, Governors and Lt. Governors of states and UTs, representatives from State and District Health Administration and other stakeholders. Click here to see the President's Speech in Hindi ***** DS/BM (Release ID: 1858024) Visitor Counter : 22288


--- [Pradhan Mantri TB Mukt Bharat Abhiyaan [PMTBMBA]] ---
Content Status Type Linked Node Pradhan Mantri TB Mukt Bharat Abhiyaan [PMTBMBA] Learning ObjectivesPradhan Mantri TB Mukt Bharat Abhiyaan Pradhan Mantri TB Mukt Bharat Abhiyaan To galvanize efforts towards TB elimination, Her Excellency, Smt. Droupadi Murmu,Hon’ble President of India on 9th September 2022 launched “Pradhan Mantri TB Mukt Bharat Abhiyan ‘’ PMTBMBA aims at community support to TB patients. Community to provide support to people with TB and their families increased nutritional, diagnostic and vocational support which will be delivered within the community. In this regard, it becomes imperative to strengthen the collaboration between the community and the existing societal institutions. This in turn can play a critical role in filling gaps and addressing social determinants and thereby contributing to achievement of the national goal of TB Mukt Bharat. PMTBMBA initiative is to bring together people from all backgrounds into a ‘Jan Andolan’ and escalate the progress toward TB elimination. The expected outputs of the initiative are: This initiative will increase the active involvement of society in the fight against tuberculosis. This activity aims at increasing awareness among the public regarding Tuberculosis. Involvement of the community in supporting the treatment cascade and shall also help in the reduction of stigma. Provision of additional support to the TB patient shall also result in the reduction of the out-of-pocket expenditure for the family of the TB patient. Ultimately improved nutrition for the TB patient shall result in better treatment outcomes. Page Tags Content Creator Reviewer Target Audience - Log in to post comments


--- [President to launch “Pradhan Mantri TB Mukt Bharat Abhiyaan ...] ---
President Droupadi Murmu will virtually launch the `Pradhan Mantri TB Mukt Bharat Abhiyaan’ on September 9. This is aimed at working towards TB elimination from the country by 2025, said a release issued by the Health Ministry. The `Abhiyaan’ will be launched in the presence of Union Minister of Health and Family Welfare (HFW) Mansukh Mandaviya, and Minister of State (HFW) Bharati Pravin Pawar, among other dignitaries. The virtual event is expected to be attended by the representatives from the State & district health administration, corporates, industries, civil society and NGOs as the country reiterates the commitment towards TB elimination by 2025. According to the Health Ministry release the `Pradhan Mantri TB Mukt Bharat Abhiyaan’ has been envisioned to bring together all community stakeholders to support those on TB treatment and accelerate the country’s progress towards TB elimination. The President will also launch the Ni-kshay Mitra initiative which forms a vital component of the `Abhiyaan’. The Ni-kshay Mitra portal provides a platform for donors to provide various forms of support to those undergoing TB treatment. The three-pronged support includes nutritional, additional diagnostic, and vocational support. The donors, called Ni-kshay Mitras, could be a wide range of stakeholders from elected representatives, political parties, to corporates, NGOs, and individuals. The launch event aims to highlight the need for a societal approach that brings together people from all backgrounds into a `Jan Andolan’ to achieve the ambitious target of eliminating TB from the country by 2025. `Pradhan Mantri TB Mukt Bharat Abhiyaan’ is a step towards garnering community support towards a patient-centric health system. Published - September 09, 2022 06:07 am IST


--- [National TB Elimination Programme | NATIONAL HEALTH MISSION ...] ---
National TB Elimination Programme - The aim of the National Tuberculosis Eradication Program is to eradicate tuberculosis by providing timely identification and complete treatment to tuberculosis patients. - Under the program, examination, treatment and medicines for tuberculosis are available free of cost. - There are 13 District Tuberculosis Control Centres (district level), 98 TB Units (block level) and 157 Sputum Testing Centres available in the state. - Under the Free Nutrition Scheme, all tuberculosis patients are provided a nutritional allowance of Rs. 1000/- per month for the duration of treatment. Provision of incentives has been made for the treatment supporter (DoT provider), under which Rs. 1000/- is provided for drug sensitive TB and Rs. 5000/- is provided for drug resistant TB on completion of treatment. - Facility for testing TB through modern technology is available in all the blocks of the state. (Total number of NAT machines is 131) - For the treatment of DRTB patients, DRTB site is functional in Government Medical College, Haldwani and Himalayan Institute Medical College, Jolly Grant, Dehradun. Work of setting up DRTB site in Government Doon Medical College, Dehradun is in process. Pradhan Mantri TB Mukt Bharat Abhiyan:- Under the National Tuberculosis Eradication Program, ‘Pradhan Mantri TB Mukt Bharat Abhiyan’ was launched by the Honorable President on 07 September 2022 and by the Honorable Governor of Uttarakhand on 17 September 2022 to support TB patients in additional nutrition, testing and treatment etc. Under this activity, social institutions, corporate, Panchayati Raj Department, Education Department, Health Department, Cooperative Institution, various officers / employees of the state and interested citizens can provide support to TB patients by becoming Ni-Kshay Mitra. To become a Ni-Kshay Mitra, the District Tuberculosis Officer’s office in the district can be contacted. - To help in additional nutrition, testing and treatment to improve the treatment results of TB patients. - To leverage Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) activities for TB elimination. TB Mukt Panchayat: As per the guidelines of the Government of India, to make Uttarakhand state TB free, work is being done in a phased manner for TB elimination in the Gram Panchayats as per the indicators of TB free Panchayat.


--- [President Droupadi Murmu launches 'Pradhan Mantri TB Mukt ...] ---
No content
