=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Kosovo leader has lung cancer - The New York Times]
Sep 6, 2005 · TIMISOARA, Romania — President Ibrahim Rugova of Kosovo announced Monday that he had been diagnosed with lung cancer, raising questions over his participation in negotiations this autumn...
URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2005/09/06/world/europe/kosovo-leader-has-lung-cancer.html

[Kosovo's president has lung cancer - UPI.com]
Sep 5, 2005 · PRISTINA, Serbia, Sept. 5 (UPI) -- The president of Serbia's embattled Kosovo province, Ibrahim Rugova, has announced he has lung cancer, but will not resign. In a television address, the...
URL: https://www.upi.com/Top_News/2005/09/05/Kosovos-president-has-lung-cancer/18671125936565/

[Kosovar President Has Cancer, But Will Not Step Down]
Sep 5, 2005 · Ibrahim Rugova (file photo) 5 September 2005 (RFE/RL) -- The president of Kosovo, Ibrahim Rugova, said today that he had been diagnosed with lung cancer but will not step down. Rugova...
URL: https://www.rferl.org/a/1061163.html

[Kosovo President Rugova dies - The Sydney Morning Herald]
Jan 22, 2006 · Rugova, 61, announced he had been diagnosed with lung cancer inSeptember 2005 on returning from tests at a US military hospital inGermany.
URL: https://www.smh.com.au/world/kosovo-president-rugova-dies-20060122-gdmtpt.html

[Kosovo president dies of lung cancer | News | Al Jazeera]
Jan 21, 2006 · A Western official in the provincial capital of Pristina confirmed that Rugova died on Saturday. Rugova, who came to embody ethnic Albanians’ struggle for independence from Serbia, was...
URL: https://www.aljazeera.com/news/2006/1/21/kosovo-president-dies-of-lung-cancer


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Kosovo leader has lung cancer - The New York Times] ---
Supported by Kosovo leader has lung cancer TIMISOARA, Romania — President Ibrahim Rugova of Kosovo announced Monday that he had been diagnosed with lung cancer, raising questions over his participation in negotiations this autumn on the region's future. Looking frail, the leader of Kosovo, the UN-administered province of Serbia, made the announcement on regional television stations, ending a week of speculation about his health that was prompted by his flight to a U.S. military base in Germany for tests on Aug. 27. But Rugova, 61, who has made independence from Serbia his lifelong goal, gave no indication that he would be stepping down. "The doctors found that my health is improving," he said, "and they are optimistic on my recovery in the near future." If Rugova were incapacitated, his Democratic League of Kosovo would be left divided and without an obvious replacement as it begins negotiations that many ethnic Albanians hope will lead to Kosovo becoming an independent state. The United Nations is considering whether relations between the Albanians and the minority Serb community have improved sufficiently for talks to take place. That decision is expected this month. The province has been administered by the United Nations since Yugoslav security forces, after committing widespread atrocities against ethnic Albanians, were forced to withdraw from the region six years ago. Kosovo is still officially a part of Serbia, but the Serbian government in Belgrade no longer exercises any authority over the region. Related Content Advertisement


--- [Kosovo's president has lung cancer - UPI.com] ---
PRISTINA, Serbia, Sept. 5 (UPI) -- The president of Serbia's embattled Kosovo province, Ibrahim Rugova, has announced he has lung cancer, but will not resign. In a television address, the visibly weakened 60-year-old leader said he would continue to seek his goal of non-violent secession from Serbia. "I am convinced that with the help of God I will overcome this battle," Rugova said in his address. Last week, officials said he had taken sick with the flu, and numerous engagements were canceled, the BBC said. He flew to a U.S. military hospital in Landstuhl, Germany where he was diagnosed. "Doctors have found that I suffer from a localized lung cancer and they have assigned me an intensive healing therapy," he said. Kosovo has been under U.N. administration since 1999, when a NATO bombing campaign against Serbia stopped Serb forces from expelling the ethnic-Albanian majority during an Albanian separatist insurgency.


--- [Kosovar President Has Cancer, But Will Not Step Down] ---
Rugova looked weak and frail when he made the announcement on television. He said he had been diagnosed with a localized cancer, but he said he will continue to work toward his life-long goal of Kosovo's independence from Serbia. His announcement came as the province nears a crucial time of talks on its future. Kosovo, part of Serbia, has been administered by the United Nations since 1999, after NATO air strikes aimed at stopping a crackdown by Serbian forces on separatist ethnic Albanians. (AP/Reuters) For RFE/RL's full coverage of events in Kosovo, see "News And Features On Kosovo" His announcement came as the province nears a crucial time of talks on its future. Kosovo, part of Serbia, has been administered by the United Nations since 1999, after NATO air strikes aimed at stopping a crackdown by Serbian forces on separatist ethnic Albanians. (AP/Reuters) For RFE/RL's full coverage of events in Kosovo, see "News And Features On Kosovo"


--- [Kosovo President Rugova dies - The Sydney Morning Herald] ---
This was published 20 years ago Kosovo President Rugova dies Kosovo President Ibrahim Rugova, icon of the ethnic Albaniandrive to win independence from Serbia, died yesterday four monthsafter announcing he had lung cancer, his spokesman said. He died only a few days before the United Nations was due tobegin direct negotiations between Belgrade and Pristina to decidewhether Kosovo's 90 percent ethnic Albanian majority should winindependence from Serbia. "We can confirm he died this morning," spokesman Muhamet Hamititold Reuters. A government source said the prime minister hadcalled an urgent cabinet session. Rugova, 61, announced he had been diagnosed with lung cancer inSeptember 2005 on returning from tests at a US military hospital inGermany. American doctors had since been supervising his treatmentat his residence in Pristina. Legally part of Serbia, Kosovo has been run by the UnitedNations since 1999, when NATO bombing drove out Serb forces accusedof atrocities against Albanian civilians in a two-year war withseparatist guerillas. Rugova has no clear successor in his faction-ridden DemocraticLeague of Kosovo and no plans for his replacement at the helm ofthe Kosovo negotiating team have been announced. Western diplomats have expressed concern at the prospect of amessy power struggle at such a crucial moment. A powerfulfigurehead and twice president since the war, Rugova had beenexpected to lead the Kosovo team at the talks. The Sorbonne-educated literature professor was the architect ofa decade of passive resistance to Serb domination from 1989, whenformer Yugoslav President Slobodan Milosevic stripped the provinceof its autonomy. Reuters


--- [Kosovo president dies of lung cancer | News | Al Jazeera] ---
Kosovo president dies of lung cancer Ibrahim Rugova, the president of Kosovo, who had been suffering from lung cancer, has died. He was 61. A Western official in the provincial capital of Pristina confirmed that Rugova died on Saturday. Rugova, who came to embody ethnic Albanians’ struggle for independence from Serbia, was officially diagnosed with lung cancer last September. The president, who had a cult status among some ethnic Albanians, had been a chain-smoker until he was diagnosed with the illness. Rugova had been at the forefront of ethnic Albanian demand for independence from Serbia since the early 1990s, when he started leading a non-violent movement against the policies of Slobodan Milosevic, then president of Yugoslavia. Sensitive time His death comes at a sensitive time for the province, which is about to start negotiations on whether it becomes independent or remains part of Serbia. The ethnic Albanian majority want full independence, but Serbs want Kosovo to remain part of Serbia-Montenegro, the union that replaced Yugoslavia. His death will also leave the province’s political scene grappling with possible succession battles. No other Kosovo politician has been held in as much regard. He won international respect through the peaceful nature of his opposition to Serb dominance, in contrast to other Kosovo Albanians now in leadership positions, who were part of the rebel Kosovo Liberation Army that fought Serb troops.
