=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Murders of Yuna and Minu Jo - Wikipedia]
In August 2022 the bodies of two children, Yuna and Minu Jo, were found in suitcases in Auckland, New Zealand. The suitcases were bought from the sale of an abandoned storage unit where the bodies are suspected to have been stored for multiple years. In September 2022, Hakyung Lee, the mother of the children, was arrested in South Korea.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Murders_of_Yuna_and_Minu_Jo

[Woman admits killing children whose bodies were later found in ...]
Sep 12, 2025 · The children's bodies were found in an abandoned storage locker by an Auckland family over four years later. Lee was arrested in September 2022 in South Korea and extradited two months later.
URL: https://www.cbsnews.com/news/woman-admits-killing-children-suitcases-new-zealand-prosecutor-says/

[Children's bodies in suitcases: Mother's trial adjourned - 1News]
Apr 29, 2024 · The trial of Hakyung Lee, the South Korean mother accused of murdering her two children and hiding their bodies in suitcases, has been adjourned for fair trial reasons. Her trial, which had been set down for four weeks, had been scheduled to begin at the High Court at Auckland on Wednesday. Lee has been remanded in custody and will reappear in court for a callover next month. A new trial date ...
URL: https://www.1news.co.nz/2024/04/29/childrens-bodies-in-suitcases-mothers-trial-adjourned/

[The story of New Zealand mother guilty of killing her 2 children and ...]
Sep 23, 2025 · A New Zealand mother has been found guilty in a shocking case dubbed the ‘suitcase murders’. Hakyung Lee was convicted of murdering her two children and hiding their bodies in suitcases. The case has drawn international attention for its gory and sensational details. The 44-year-old, who pleaded not guilty, was convicted after a two-week trial. But what do we know about the case?
URL: https://www.firstpost.com/explainers/suitcase-murders-the-grisly-case-of-nz-mother-found-guilty-of-killing-2-children-13936168.html

[Woman faces NZ trial over bodies-in-suitcases murders]
Sep 8, 2025 · A trial has opened in New Zealand for a woman accused of murdering her two children and leaving their bodies in suitcases for years before they were discovered. Hakyung Lee is charged with killing Minu Jo, 6, and Yuna Jo, 8, in June 2018. She was extradited from South Korea to face the charges, which she denies. The children’s remains were found inside luggage at an abandoned storage unit in ...
URL: https://theqldr.com.au/international-news/2025/09/08/nz_lee/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Murders of Yuna and Minu Jo - Wikipedia] ---
In August 2022 the bodies of two children, Yuna and Minu Jo, were found in suitcases in Auckland, New Zealand. The suitcases were bought from the sale of an abandoned storage unit where the bodies are suspected to have been stored for multiple years. In September 2022, Hakyung Lee, the mother of the children, was arrested in South Korea. She was extradited to New Zealand, and has been charged with the children's murder. Her trial started on 8 September 2025. Following a two-week trial, Lee was convicted of murdering her two children on 23 September 2025. She was sentenced to life imprisonment on 26 November 2025.


--- [Woman admits killing children whose bodies were later found in ...] ---
Woman admits killing children whose bodies were later found in suitcases, New Zealand prosecutor says A woman on trial in New Zealand admitted to killing her children who were later found in suitcases, court records showed Friday, though the mother's defense has reportedly argued she is not guilty by reason of insanity. South Korean Hakyung Lee "accepted that she gave her children nortriptyline which led to their deaths," state prosecutor Natalie Walker told jurors this week, referring to a common antidepressant. Police believe Lee killed her children -- Minu Jo, 6, and Yuna Jo, 8 -- in June or July 2018, a year after her husband's death, and then returned to South Korea. The children's bodies were found in an abandoned storage locker by an Auckland family over four years later. Lee was arrested in September 2022 in South Korea and extradited two months later. She was extradited from South Korea in November 2022 at the request of the New Zealand police. During cross-examination in court, however, pathologist Simon Stables said it was hard to conclude that the antidepressant was the sole cause of the children's deaths given the advanced state of decomposition when their bodies were discovered. "One could argue that it is the cause of death or you could say that it's in combination with something else," he told the court. "It could also have subdued the child," he added. The children's remains were found in separate peach-colored suitcases, wrapped in plastic, a police officer who first investigated the matter told the court. The grisly discovery came after an unsuspecting family bought a trailer-load of items -- including the suitcases -- at an auction for abandoned goods near Auckland, the country's biggest city. Lee has elected to represent herself in the trial but has two lawyers who are serving as standby counsel. On Tuesday, defense lawyer Lorraine Smith told the court that Lee was "not guilty of murder by reason of insanity," video of the trial released by Australian national broadcaster ABC showed. Smith said the death of her husband in 2017 sent her into a depressive spiral. A palliative care counselor said in a statement read to the court that Lee had said she "wanted it all to be over" and often mentioned ending both her and her husband's life, the ABC reported. At one point, Lee thought it would be best if the whole family died and they all took antidepressants, Smith said. But she got the dose wrong and when she woke up, the children were dead, Lee said. Her trial is expected to last four weeks.


--- [Children's bodies in suitcases: Mother's trial adjourned - 1News] ---
The trial of Hakyung Lee, the South Korean mother accused of murdering her two children and hiding their bodies in suitcases, has been adjourned for fair trial reasons. Her trial, which had been set down for four weeks, had been scheduled to begin at the High Court at Auckland on Wednesday. Lee has been remanded in custody and will reappear in court for a callover next month. A new trial date has not yet been set. It's been six years since the deaths of her two children - Minu Jo, 6, and 8-year-old Yuna Jo - and a year-and-a-half since court proceedings against Lee started. She had previously denied murdering the children. The case so far Minu Jo and Yuna Jo were found dead in August 2022 after a family bought the contents of an abandoned storage locker in Papatoetoe. The family took the goods to their home in Clendon Park, where the bodies were discovered in suitcases among the items. It's believed the children died in 2018. Immigration records show Lee returned to South Korea in 2018. An investigation was opened after the grisly discovery and about a month later, in September 2022, Lee was arrested in South Korea at New Zealand's request. South Korean police found her in the city of Ulsan. Lee was extradited and landed back in New Zealand in November that year. She's been before the courts since then, and lost her name suppression in July last year.


--- [The story of New Zealand mother guilty of killing her 2 children and ...] ---
A New Zealand mother has been found guilty in a shocking case dubbed the ‘suitcase murders’. Hakyung Lee was convicted of murdering her two children and hiding their bodies in suitcases. The case has drawn international attention for its gory and sensational details. The 44-year-old, who pleaded not guilty, was convicted after a two-week trial. But what do we know about the case? Let’s take a closer look What we know Lee, a citizen of New Zealand, is originally from South Korea. The bodies of Lee’s children – Yuna Jo and Minu Jo – were found in 2022. The children were eight and six years old respectively at the time of their deaths. The bodies were discovered after a family in New Zealand bought suitcases at a storage unit auction. Authorities in New Zealand said they believe the children had been dead for at least three to four years before the bodies were recovered. Lee was arrested in South Korea’s Ulsan in September 2022 after being identified by authorities in New Zealand as the mother of the children. She was later extradited to New Zealand that year. What Lee claimed at trial Lee, during the trial, argued that she was insane at the time the killings occurred. She claimed the death of her husband, Ian Jo, from cancer in 2017 caused a break in her mental health. Lee’s lawyers argued that she, in her diminished mental state, decided that it would be best if she killed herself as well as the children. However, Lee got the dose wrong and woke up with her children dead. Lee, at the trial, pleaded “not guilty of murder by reason of insanity”. L ee represented herself at the trial with assistance from two standby lawyers. However, she did not speak or answer any questions. She spent the trial sitting between a translator and a security guard with her head bowed and her face covered by her hair. Her lawyers admitted that Lee dosed the children with the antidepressant and stuffed their bodies in suitcases. Regardless, standby counsel Chris Wilkinson-Smith asked the jury to find Lee not guilty. “She was a normal mother and then something went seriously wrong … she did something she would never contemplate doing. She would never harm her children let alone kill them,” Wilkinson-Smith said. What the prosecution said The prosecution, during the trial, said that though the children’s bodies showed no signs of trauma, it was clear they had been murdered. A pathologist in New Zealand rendered a verdict of death by homicide by unspecified means. The pathologist found the use of the antidepressant Nortriptyline. The prosecution claimed that Lee obtained the drug from a pharmacy in August 2017 – just months before her husband was diagnosed with cancer. The prosecution argued that Lee displayed rational thought by trying to conceal the murders and hiding the bodies of the children in suitcases. They also pointed to Lee leaving the country for South Korea and changing her name. Crown prosecutor Natalie Walker said Lee was motivated “to free herself from the burden of parenting alone”. “I suggest this shows her thinking rationally, even clinically, about taking her children’s lives and then covering up her heinous crimes,” Walker added. “It was not the altruistic act of a mother who had lost her mind and believed it was the morally right thing to do, it was the opposite.” The verdict Justice Geoffrey Venning, who was overseeing the trial, told the jury, “It’s natural to feel sympathy for the young children who were killed. It’s also natural to feel someone should be held responsible for their deaths.” “On the other hand, some of you may feel sympathy for the defendant,” Venning added. In the end, Venning asked the jury to reach its conclusion based only on the facts that they had heard. The jury found Lee guilty after deliberating for just two hours. Lee, who kept her face down during the judgment, showed no reaction. She now faces the maximum sentence of life in prison. Under New Zealand law, she will not be eligible for parole for at least a decade. She will be sentenced in November. She may be moved to a mental health facility before being sent to prison. With inputs from agencies


--- [Woman faces NZ trial over bodies-in-suitcases murders] ---
Woman faces NZ trial over bodies-in-suitcases murders Charlotte Graham-McLay | A trial has opened in New Zealand for a woman accused of murdering her two children and leaving their bodies in suitcases for years before they were discovered. Hakyung Lee is charged with killing Minu Jo, 6, and Yuna Jo, 8, in June 2018. She was extradited from South Korea to face the charges, which she denies. The children’s remains were found inside luggage at an abandoned storage unit in Auckland in August 2022. Lee, who is a New Zealand citizen, had travelled to South Korea and changed her name in 2018, shortly after the children are believed to have been killed. She was born in South Korea and went by the name Ji Eun Lee previously. A jury was chosen on Monday for Lee’s trial at the High Court in Auckland, and the matter is expected to take four weeks. Prosecutors are due to outline their case on Tuesday and said they would call 40 witnesses. New Zealand news outlets reported Lee was representing herself, although two lawyers were on standby to help her if needed. She did not speak during the hearing on Monday and shook her head, rather than answering through an interpreter, when asked how she pleaded to the charges. Not guilty pleas were entered by Justice Geoffrey Venning, who is presiding. The children’s cause of death remains unknown. Court documents said they might have been killed by sleeping medication prescribed to Lee and detected in their bodies by forensic investigators, but another cause of death hasn’t been ruled out, according to Radio New Zealand. Lee’s husband died in 2017 after a period of deteriorating health, according to RNZ. Justice Venning told the jury on Monday they would likely be asked to consider the matter of Lee’s sanity at the time of the alleged killings, news outlet Stuff reported. Venning said the trial would be distressing to Lee and has granted her permission to watch proceedings from another room in the courthouse, Stuff said. The children’s remains were discovered after Lee stopped paying rental fees for the Auckland storage unit when she ran into financial difficulties in 2022, RNZ reported. The locker’s contents were auctioned online and the buyers found the bodies inside. Lee, who is in her 40s, was arrested in September 2022 in South Korea and extradited two months later. She had granted consent in writing to be extradited after a formal request from New Zealand to return her to face trial, South Korean officials said at the time. South Korea’s Justice Ministry said it had provided New Zealand with unspecified “important evidence” in the case. Lifeline 13 11 14 beyondblue 1300 22 4636 AP
