=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Noam Chomsky - Wikipedia]
Among the most cited living authors, Chomsky has written more than 150 books on topics such as linguistics, war, and politics.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Noam_Chomsky

[and postnominal onymic genitives in (Early) New High German. A ...]
... Pre- and postnominal onymic genitives in (Early) New High German. A multifactorial analysis. August 2021; Journal of Historical Linguistics 11(2). DOI:10.1075 ...
URL: https://www.researchgate.net/publication/353794025_Pre-_and_postnominal_onymic_genitives_in_Early_New_High_German_A_multifactorial_analysis

[Google Scholar]
Search across a wide variety of disciplines and sources: articles, theses, books, abstracts and court opinions.
URL: https://scholar.google.com/

[Possession, Adnominal | Request PDF]
Sep 12, 2025 — ... Pre- and postnominal onymic genitives in (Early) New High German. A multifactorial analysis. Article. Aug 2021. Tanja Ackermann.
URL: https://www.researchgate.net/publication/304041443_Possession_Adnominal

[Noam Chomsky | Biography, Theories, Books, Psychology ...]
Noam Chomsky was raised in Philadelphia and attended an experimental elementary school where he could freely explore his intellectual interests. At age 10 he wrote a school newspaper editorial bemoaning the rise of fascism in Europe. He enrolled at the University of Pennsylvania at age 16 and developed an interest in structural linguistics.
URL: https://www.britannica.com/biography/Noam-Chomsky


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Noam Chomsky - Wikipedia] ---
Avram Noam Chomsky (born December 7, 1928) is an American professor and public intellectual known for his work in linguistics, political activism, and social criticism. Sometimes called "the father of modern linguistics", Chomsky is also a major figure in analytic philosophy and one of the founders of the field of cognitive science. He is a laureate professor of linguistics at the University of Arizona and an institute professor emeritus at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT). Among the most cited living authors, Chomsky has written more than 150 books on topics such as linguistics, war, and politics. In addition to his work in linguistics, since the 1960s, Chomsky has been an influential voice on the American left as a consistent critic of U.S. foreign policy, contemporary capitalism, and corporate influence on political institutions and the media.
Born to Ashkenazi Jewish immigrants in Philadelphia, Chomsky developed an early interest in anarchism from alternative bookstores in New York City. He studied at the University of Pennsylvania. During his postgraduate work in the Harvard Society of Fellows, Chomsky developed the theory of transformational grammar for which he earned his doctorate in 1955. That year he began teaching at MIT, and in 1957 emerged as a significant figure in linguistics with his landmark work Syntactic Structures, which played a major role in remodeling the study of language. From 1958 to 1959 Chomsky was a National Science Foundation fellow at the Institute for Advanced Study. He created or co-created the universal grammar theory, the generative grammar theory, the Chomsky hierarchy, and the minimalist program. Chomsky also played a pivotal role in the decline of linguistic behaviorism, and was particularly critical of the work of B. F. Skinner.
An outspoken opponent of U.S. involvement in the Vietnam War, which he saw as an act of American imperialism, in 1967 Chomsky rose to national attention for his anti-war essay "The Responsibility of Intellectuals". Becoming associated with the New Left, he was arrested multiple times for his activism and placed on President Richard Nixon's list of political opponents. While expanding his work in linguistics over subsequent decades, he also became involved in the linguistics wars. In collaboration with Edward S. Herman, Chomsky later articulated the propaganda model of media criticism in Manufacturing Consent, and worked to expose the Indonesian occupation of East Timor. His defense of unconditional freedom of speech, including that of Holocaust denial, generated significant controversy in the Faurisson affair of the 1980s. Chomsky's commentary on the Cambodian genocide and the Bosnian genocide also generated controversy. Since retiring from active teaching at MIT, he has continued his vocal political activism, including opposing the 2003 invasion of Iraq and supporting the Occupy movement. An anti-Zionist, Chomsky considers Israel's treatment of Palestinians to be worse than South African–style apartheid, and criticizes U.S. support for Israel.
Chomsky is widely recognized as having helped to spark the cognitive revolution in the human sciences, contributing to the development of a new cognitivistic framework for the study of language and the mind. Chomsky remains a leading critic of U.S. foreign policy, contemporary capitalism, U.S. involvement and Israel's role in the Israeli–Palestinian conflict, and mass media. Chomsky and his ideas remain highly influential in the anti-capitalist and anti-imperialist movements.


--- [and postnominal onymic genitives in (Early) New High German. A ...] ---
No content


--- [Google Scholar] ---
Wird geladen... Das System kann den Vorgang jetzt nicht ausführen. Versuchen Sie es später erneut. Erweiterte Suche Artikel finden mit allen Wörtern mit der genauen Wortgruppe mit irgendeinem der Wörter ohne die Wörter die meine Wörter enthalten irgendwo im Artikel im Titel des Artikels Artikel zurückgeben, die von folgendem Autor verfasst wurden: z. B. "Stephen Hawking" oder Hawking Artikel zurückgeben, die hier veröffentlicht wurden : z. B. NJW oder Nature Artikel zurückgeben, die in folgendem Zeitraum geschrieben wurden: — z.B. 1996 In „Meine Bibliothek“ gespeichert Fertig Artikel entfernen Mein Profil Meine Bibliothek Benachrichtigungen Kennzahlen Labs Erweiterte Suche Einstellungen Anmelden Mein Profil Meine Bibliothek Labs Anmelden Beliebige Sprache Seiten auf Deutsch Auf den Schultern von Riesen Unter Umständen funktionieren einige Funktionen nicht, wenn JavaScript deaktiviert ist. Für eine optimale Nutzererfahrung aktivieren Sie bitte JavaScript in Ihrem Browser. DE Sprachen Deutsch Català Čeština Dansk English Español Filipino Français Hrvatski Indonesia Italiano Latviešu Lietuvių Magyar Nederlands Norsk Polski Português (Brasil) Português (Portugal) Română Slovenčina Slovenščina Suomi Svenska Tiếng Việt Türkçe Ελληνικά Български Русский Српски Українська עברית ﺎﻠﻋﺮﺒﻳﺓ ﻑﺍﺮﺳی हिन्दी ไทย 한국어 中文 (简体) 中文 (繁體) 日本語 Datenschutzerklärung Nutzungsbedingungen Hilfe Über Google Scholar Google Suche-Hilfe


--- [Possession, Adnominal | Request PDF] ---
No content


--- [Noam Chomsky | Biography, Theories, Books, Psychology ...] ---
Noam Chomsky What was Noam Chomsky’s early life like? How did Noam Chomsky influence the field of linguistics? What are Noam Chomsky’s politics? News • Noam Chomsky (born December 7, 1928, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, U.S.) is an American theoretical linguist whose work from the 1950s revolutionized the field of linguistics by treating language as a uniquely human, biologically based cognitive capacity. Through his contributions to linguistics and related fields, including cognitive psychology and the philosophies of mind and language, Chomsky helped to initiate and sustain what came to be known as the “cognitive revolution.” Chomsky also gained a worldwide following as a political dissident for his analyses of the pernicious influence of economic elites on U.S. domestic politics, foreign policy, and intellectual culture. Life and basic ideas Born into a middle-class Jewish family, Chomsky attended an experimental elementary school in which he was encouraged to develop his own interests and talents through self-directed learning. When he was 10 years old, he wrote an editorial for his school newspaper lamenting the fall of Barcelona in the Spanish Civil War and the rise of fascism in Europe. His research then and during the next few years was thorough enough to serve decades later as the basis of “Objectivity and Liberal Scholarship” (1969), Chomsky’s critical review of a study of the period by the historian Gabriel Jackson. When he was 13 years old, Chomsky began taking trips by himself to New York City, where he found books for his voracious reading habit and made contact with a thriving working-class Jewish intellectual community. Discussion enriched and confirmed the beliefs that would underlie his political views throughout his life: that all people are capable of comprehending political and economic issues and making their own decisions on that basis; that all people need and derive satisfaction from acting freely and creatively and from associating with others; and that authority—whether political, economic, or religious—that cannot meet a strong test of rational justification is illegitimate. According to Chomsky’s anarchosyndicalism, or libertarian socialism, the best form of political organization is one in which all people have a maximal opportunity to engage in cooperative activity with others and to take part in all decisions of the community that affect them. In 1945, at the age of 16, Chomsky entered the University of Pennsylvania but found little to interest him. After two years he considered leaving the university to pursue his political interests, perhaps by living on a kibbutz. He changed his mind, however, after meeting the linguist Zellig S. Harris, one of the American founders of structural linguistics, whose political convictions were similar to Chomsky’s. Chomsky took graduate courses with Harris and, at Harris’s recommendation, studied philosophy with Nelson Goodman and Nathan Salmon and mathematics with Nathan Fine, who was then teaching at Harvard University. In his 1951 master’s thesis, The Morphophonemics of Modern Hebrew, and especially in The Logical Structure of Linguistic Theory (LSLT), written while he was a junior fellow at Harvard (1951–55) and published in part in 1975, Chomsky adopted aspects of Harris’s approach to the study of language and of Goodman’s views on formal systems and the philosophy of science and transformed them into something novel. Whereas Goodman assumed that the mind at birth is largely a tabula rasa (blank slate) and that language learning in children is essentially a conditioned response to linguistic stimuli, Chomsky held that the basic principles of all languages, as well as the basic range of concepts they are used to express, are innately represented in the human mind and that language learning consists of the unconscious construction of a grammar from these principles in accordance with cues drawn from the child’s linguistic environment. Whereas Harris thought of the study of language as the taxonomic classification of “data,” Chomsky held that it is the discovery, through the application of formal systems, of the innate principles that make possible the swift acquisition of language by children and the ordinary use of language by children and adults alike. And whereas Goodman believed that linguistic behaviour is regular and caused (in the sense of being a specific response to specific stimuli), Chomsky argued that it is incited by social context and discourse context but essentially uncaused—enabled by a distinct set of innate principles but innovative, or “creative.” It is for this reason that Chomsky believed that it is unlikely that there will ever be a full-fledged science of linguistic behaviour. As in the view of the 17th-century French philosopher Réne Descartes, according to Chomsky, the use of language is due to a “creative principle,” not a causal one. Harris ignored Chomsky’s work, and Goodman—when he realized that Chomsky would not accept his behaviourism—denounced it. Their reactions, with some variations, were shared by a large majority of linguists, philosophers, and psychologists. Although some linguists and psychologists eventually came to accept Chomsky’s basic assumptions regarding language and the mind, most philosophers continued to resist them. Chomsky received a Ph.D. in linguistics from the University of Pennsylvania in 1955 after submitting one chapter of LSLT as a doctoral dissertation (Transformational Analysis). In 1956 he was appointed by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) to a teaching position that required him to spend half his time on a machine translation project, though he was openly skeptical of its prospects for success (he told the director of the translation laboratory that the project was of “no intellectual interest and was also pointless”). Impressed with his book Syntactic Structures (1957), a revised version of a series of lectures he gave to MIT undergraduates, the university asked Chomsky and his colleague Morris Halle to establish a new graduate program in linguistics, which soon attracted several outstanding scholars, including Robert Lees, Jerry Fodor, Jerold Katz, and Paul Postal. Chomsky’s 1959 review of Verbal Behavior, by B.F. Skinner, the dean of American behaviourism, came to be regarded as the definitive refutation of behaviourist accounts of language learning. Starting in the mid-1960s, with the publication of Aspects of the Theory of Syntax (1965) and Cartesian Linguistics (1966), Chomsky’s approach to the study of language and mind gained wider acceptance within linguistics, though there were many theoretical variations within the paradigm. Chomsky was appointed full professor at MIT in 1961, Ferrari P. Ward Professor of Modern Languages and Linguistics in 1966, and Institute Professor in 1976. He retired from MIT as professor emeritus in 2002. Fifteen years later, in 2017, he became a laureate professor of linguistics at the University of Arizona. In 1947 Chomsky married Carol Doris Schatz, a linguist and early-education specialist. The couple had three children and remained married until his wife’s death in 2008. In 2014 Chomsky married Valeria Wasserman, a Brazilian translator. In June 2023, at the age of 94, he suffered a severe stroke, which greatly impaired his ability to communicate and to move.
