=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Jo Ann Hardesty - Wikipedia]
Jo Ann A. Hardesty (formerly Bowman, [2][3] born October 15, 1957) is an American Democratic politician in the U.S. state of Oregon who served as a Portland City commissioner from 2019 to 2022. She previously served in the Oregon House of Representatives from 1995 until 2001. Hardesty was the first African American woman and first minority woman to serve on the council. A longtime activist for ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jo_Ann_Hardesty

[Jo Ann Hardesty, 1st Woman Of Color On Portland City Council, Takes ...]
Jan 2, 2019 · Portland Commissioner Jo Ann Hardesty took the oath of office Wednesday, becoming the first African-American woman to serve on the city council.
URL: https://www.opb.org/news/article/oregon-jo-ann-hardesty-first-african-american-woman-portland-city-council/

[Hardesty Last Name Origin, History, and Meaning]
She served as a Portland City commissioner and in the Oregon House of Representatives, becoming the first African American woman and minority woman on the ...
URL: https://yourroots.com/surname-origin/hardesty

[Jo Ann Hardesty Sworn In As Portland's First African American Woman on ...]
Jan 2, 2019 · Dozens of Portlanders crammed into city council chambers this morning hoping to catch a glimpse of history being made with the swearing in of Jo Ann Hardesty, the first Black woman to serve on ...
URL: https://www.portlandmercury.com/news/2019/01/02/25385114/jo-ann-hardesty-sworn-in-as-portlands-first-african-american-woman-on-city-council

[Jo Ann Hardesty sworn in as first black woman to serve on Portland City ...]
Jan 2, 2019 · The move is historic, because she’s now the first black woman to serve on the Portland City Council. When she arrived in Council Chambers, she made the rounds.
URL: https://www.kgw.com/article/news/politics/jo-ann-hardesty-sworn-in-as-first-black-woman-to-serve-on-portland-city-council/283-38fed24a-22b1-464b-9320-d0fc074461bd


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Jo Ann Hardesty - Wikipedia] ---
Jo Ann A. Hardesty (formerly Bowman, born October 15, 1957) is an American Democratic politician in the U.S. state of Oregon who served as a Portland City commissioner from 2019 to 2022. She previously served in the Oregon House of Representatives from 1995 until 2001.
Hardesty was the first African American woman and first minority woman to serve on the council. A longtime activist for racial justice and other progressive policy issues, she is well known as an advocate for police reform and defunding. In 2021, Portland Police Bureau's internal investigation concluded their officers leaked a false accusation that she was responsible for a hit and run in an act of retaliation. Hardesty faced several controversies during her tenure in office, such as her handling of personal credit card debt, vacation time, and placing a call to 9-1-1 over a dispute with a Lyft driver.
Hardesty stood for the November 2022 election runoff to serve a second term, but lost the seat to challenger Rene Gonzalez.


--- [Jo Ann Hardesty, 1st Woman Of Color On Portland City Council, Takes ...] ---
Portland Commissioner Jo Ann Hardesty took the oath of office Wednesday, becoming the first African-American woman to serve on the City Council. Hardesty told a crowd of hundreds of supporters and colleagues in City Hall that she started her day with a commute on a MAX train, reflecting on the two African-American commissioners who preceded her: Charles Jordan and Dick Bogle. "It’s been 25-ish years since an African-American has had the privilege of serving the people of Portland," she said. "What I see all around me is a city filled with people with hope, and I don’t take that hope lightly.” In a nod to the historic moment, Justice Adrienne Nelson led a brief ceremony. Nelson is the first African-American to serve on the Oregon Supreme Court. Mayor Ted Wheeler, Police Chief Danielle Outlaw and Fire Chief Mike Meyers were in the crowd, alongside many of Hardesty's longtime supporters, such as homeless activist Ibrahim Mubarak and civil rights activist James Posey. Related: Portland Voters Elect Hardesty As 1st Woman Of Color To City Council Portland is the only large American city that elects commissioners citywide, instead of by district or ward. Courts have struck down such at-large election systems in other cities — including a recent case involving the Yakima City Council — because they can dilute the power of minority voters. In Portland, very few people of color — or residents of poorer neighborhoods like East Portland — have been elected to the Council. Hardesty, who lives in East Portland’s Gateway neighborhood, is a Navy veteran, civil rights activist and consultant who served in the state Legislature from 1997 to 2000. On the campaign trail, Hardesty often downplayed the historic nature of the election. Her chief opponent, Loretta Smith, is also an African-American woman. Instead, Hardesty focused on her long record as an activist and her powerful grassroots campaign. “My campaign is not because I want to be the first black woman on Portland’s city council," she said at one of the final candidate debates. “It’s all about the service I’ve provided to the city, for free many times, because I love Portland,” she said. In Portland’s unique commission form of government, City Council members also manage city services. Mayor Wheeler has assigned Hardesty four bureaus to oversee: Portland Fire and Rescue, the Portland Bureau of Emergency Management, the Portland Bureau of Emergency Communications and the Fire and Police Disability & Retirement Fund. Hardesty’s election could mean a further shift to the left for the City Council, particularly on public safety issues, posing a challenge for Wheeler, who also serves as police commissioner. Hardesty has pledged to push for a vote to withdraw Portland from the Joint Terrorism Task Force, a partnership between local and federal law enforcement established by the FBI in 2000. Related: Portland Council Candidate Jo Ann Hardesty: On The Record She has also proposed hiring mental health professionals to triage calls in the city’s 911 call center and for alternatives to sending police officers to respond to people in a mental health crisis. Commissioner Dan Saltzman, whose seat Hardesty fills, was a moderate who reliably supported Wheeler’s agenda. Saltzman retired after serving five terms on the Council. He held on to his seat longer than any other commissioner in the past 50 years. Saltzman said his advice to Hardesty is to focus. “It’s going to be like trying to drink out of a fire hose,” he said. “Really have two or three specific priorities that you want to own and make happen, and be relentless about them.” A celebration of Hardesty’s swearing-in will take place at City Hall at 6 p.m. Wednesday and is open to the public. Capacity will be limited to 250 guests.


--- [Hardesty Last Name Origin, History, and Meaning] ---
Hardesty Last Name Origin, History, and Meaning Where did the surname Hardesty come from? What does the surname Hardesty mean? Discover the history and meaning of the last name Hardesty and family migration on YourRoots Map. Surname Hardesty Origin: What does the last name Hardesty mean? The surname Hardesty originated in England around the early 16th century, according to YourRoots data. It remained closely associated with England in the 16th and 17th centuries before growing significantly in the United States by the 18th century. By the 20th century, the volume of records with the Hardesty surname had grown significantly in the United States, where it remains prominent today. Hardesty Last Name History: Where did the last name Hardesty come from? Origin of Hardesty Surname: Where does the last name Hardesty originate from? According to YourRoots data, the surname Hardesty first appeared in records from England around the early 16th century. Please note that this reflects only YourRoots data for the exact Hardesty spelling and does not include other record sources or surname variations. History of the Last Name Hardesty: What does the Hardesty surname history look like in the early days? The Hardesty surname remained closely associated with England in the 16th and 17th centuries. By the 18th century, the surname started growing significantly in the United States. Global Spread: Where can we find the Hardesty surname today? By the 20th century, the volume of records with the Hardesty surname grew significantly in the United States. The Hardesty surname remains prominent in the United States. Explore Hardesty last name heritage and Hardesty surname origin based on YourRoots Map data Famous People With Hardesty Surame? Sally Hardesty Sally Hardesty (February 2, 1953 - ) is a fictional character in The Texas Chainsaw Massacre franchise. She first appeared in The Texas Chain Saw Massacre (1974) as a young woman investigating her grandfather's grave after local grave robberies. Hardesty, portrayed by Marilyn Burns, is a key figure in the final girl theory in horror films. She has appeared in various sequels and reboots, with different actresses taking on the role over the years. Hardesty's character has become a pop culture icon known for her resilience and survival instincts in the face of terror. Jo Ann Hardesty Jo Ann A. Hardesty (October 15, 1957 - ) is an American Democratic politician known for her advocacy for police reform and racial justice. She served as a Portland City commissioner and in the Oregon House of Representatives, becoming the first African American woman and minority woman on the council. Hardesty faced controversies during her tenure, including issues with personal credit card debt and a dispute with a Lyft driver. Despite losing her bid for a second term in 2022, she remains a prominent figure in Oregon politics. Brandon Hardesty Brandon Allan Hardesty (April 13, 1987) is an American comedic performer and actor known for his popular YouTube channel "ArtieTSMITW." Hardesty gained fame for his uncanny reenactments of movie scenes, playing all the characters himself. He has also created the documentary series "No Small Parts," now known as "The Back Focus," highlighting under-appreciated elements in entertainment. With a background in theater and a unique talent for impressions, Hardesty has landed roles in films like American Pie Presents: The Book of Love and The Scorpion King 4: Quest for Power, showcasing his versatility as an actor. Montario Hardesty Montario Hardesty (February 1, 1987) is an American college football coach and former professional running back. He played for the University of Tennessee and later transitioned into coaching roles at various universities. Hardesty excelled in college, setting records and earning a reputation as a dynamic player. His career highlights include coaching stints at Norfolk State University and the University of South Carolina. Known for his speed and agility, Hardesty's impact on the football world continues to be felt through his coaching and mentorship. Herbert Hardesty Herbert Hardesty (March 3, 1925 ‚Äì December 3, 2016) was an American musician known for his tenor saxophone and trumpet skills. He was famous for his work with Fats Domino and producer Dave Bartholomew in the 1950s, contributing to hits like "Blue Monday" and "Ain't That a Shame." Hardesty's solo recordings, including unreleased tracks from the late '50s, were later compiled into the album "The Domino Effect." With a background in military service and a talent for jazz and R&B, Hardesty left a lasting impact on the music industry. All images displayed on this page are sourced from Wikipedia or Wikimedia Commons.We use these images under their respective Creative Commons or public domain licenses. Wherever applicable, author attributions and license information are provided. If you believe an image is used incorrectly or outside its license terms, please contact us so that we can review and correct the issue.


--- [Jo Ann Hardesty Sworn In As Portland's First African American Woman on ...] ---
Dozens of Portlanders crammed into city council chambers this morning hoping to catch a glimpse of history being made with the swearing in of Jo Ann Hardesty, the first Black woman to serve on Portland City Council. Hardesty, a former state representative, NAACP chapter president, and community organizer, replaces former Commissioner Dan Saltzman, who served on the council for 20 years. Many attendees dressed up for the occasion and some brought their children along to witness the brief, yet monumental, event. Longtime community activists who've worked closely with Hardesty—like Right 2 Survive's Ibrahim Mubarak, Mental Health Association of Portland's Jason Renaud, minority-owned business advocate James Posey. "This is a very historic day," said Posey. "Now, the work really begins." Not only is Hardesty the first African American woman to sit on council, but her appointment makes the five-member council majority female for the first time in history. Commissioner @JoAnnPDX is hugging friends, supporters before her swearing in. pic.twitter.com/ckHnu8SZS9 — Alex Zielinski (@alex_zee) January 2, 2019 Hardesty was sworn in by Adrienne Nelson, the first African American judge for the Oregon Supreme Court. Before joining her new colleagues at the council dais, Hardesty addressed the crowded room. "What I see all around me is a city filled of people with hope. And I don't take that hope lightly," she said. "I look forward to what we're able to do together as Portlanders." Hardesty is the third African American commissioner to sit on Portland City Council. The last commissioner, Dick Bogel, stepped down 27 years ago. Hardesty starts her term as the commissioner in charge of the Portland Fire Bureau, Bureau of Emergency Communications, Bureau of Emergency Management, and the Fire and Police Disability & Retirement Fund. It’s official, @JoAnnPDX is a Portland city commissioner. pic.twitter.com/13F8z4GhDA — Alex Zielinski (@alex_zee) January 2, 2019 More than a dozen members of the Portland Fire Department, including Chief Mike Meyers, attended the morning event, along with Portland Police Chief Danielle Outlaw. Before kicking off her inaugural council meeting, Mayor Ted Wheeler noted the day's significance. This is the first time in the history of the city that there has been a majority of women on city council. This is the first time that a woman of color has been elected to city council," Wheeler said. "I know Jo Ann Hardesty to be a tireless leader and effective advocate. Commissioner Hardesty, I welcome you to the dais." Wheeler added that the day's council agenda was the shortest he's ever seen. No significant votes were passed. However, Commissioner Amanda Fritz elected Commissioner Chloe Eudaly to be the council president—a rotating role that makes Eudaly the second in command if Wheeler is absent. Hardesty will hold a public swearing-in celebration this evening at 6 pm at Portland City Hall. And then, she said, the work begins. "I want to remind you that this is only day one. It doesn't mean that after the party today you get to go home. You need to come back to this chamber," Hardesty said. "Let's make sure we keep this chamber looking like the city of Portland, keep coming back, keep making sure your voice is being heard. Because that's why you elected me."


--- [Jo Ann Hardesty sworn in as first black woman to serve on Portland City ...] ---
- EnglishUnited States - Deutsch - English - Español - Français - Italiano - All languages - Afrikaans - azərbaycan - bosanski - català - Čeština - Cymraeg - Dansk - Deutsch - eesti - EnglishUnited Kingdom - EspañolEspaña - EspañolLatinoamérica - euskara - Filipino - FrançaisCanada - FrançaisFrance - Gaeilge - galego - Hrvatski - Indonesia - isiZulu - íslenska - Italiano - Kiswahili - latviešu - lietuvių - magyar - Melayu - Nederlands - norsk - o‘zbek - polski - PortuguêsBrasil - PortuguêsPortugal - română - shqip - Slovenčina - slovenščina - srpski (latinica) - Suomi - Svenska - Tiếng Việt - Türkçe - Ελληνικά - беларуская - български - кыргызча - қазақ тілі - македонски - монгол - Русский - српски - Українська - ქართული - հայերեն - עברית - اردو - العربية - فارسی - አማርኛ - नेपाली - मराठी - हिन्दी - অসমীয়া - বাংলা - ਪੰਜਾਬੀ - ગુજરાતી - ଓଡ଼ିଆ - தமிழ் - తెలుగు - ಕನ್ನಡ - മലയാളം - සිංහල - ไทย - ລາວ - မြန်မာ - ខ្មែរ - 한국어 - 日本語 - 简体中文 - 繁體中文 - 繁體中文香港 - EnglishUnited States - Deutsch - English - Español - Français - Italiano - All languages - Afrikaans - azərbaycan - bosanski - català - Čeština - Cymraeg - Dansk - Deutsch - eesti - EnglishUnited Kingdom - EspañolEspaña - EspañolLatinoamérica - euskara - Filipino - FrançaisCanada - FrançaisFrance - Gaeilge - galego - Hrvatski - Indonesia - isiZulu - íslenska - Italiano - Kiswahili - latviešu - lietuvių - magyar - Melayu - Nederlands - norsk - o‘zbek - polski - PortuguêsBrasil - PortuguêsPortugal - română - shqip - Slovenčina - slovenščina - srpski (latinica) - Suomi - Svenska - Tiếng Việt - Türkçe - Ελληνικά - беларуская - български - кыргызча - қазақ тілі - македонски - монгол - Русский - српски - Українська - ქართული - հայերեն - עברית - اردو - العربية - فارسی - አማርኛ - नेपाली - मराठी - हिन्दी - অসমীয়া - বাংলা - ਪੰਜਾਬੀ - ગુજરાતી - ଓଡ଼ିଆ - தமிழ் - తెలుగు - ಕನ್ನಡ - മലയാളം - සිංහල - ไทย - ລາວ - မြန်မာ - ខ្មែរ - 한국어 - 日本語 - 简体中文 - 繁體中文 - 繁體中文香港 Before you continue to YouTube We use cookies and data to - Deliver and maintain Google services - Track outages and protect against spam, fraud, and abuse - Measure audience engagement and site statistics to understand how our services are used and enhance the quality of those services If you choose to “Accept all,” we will also use cookies and data to - Develop and improve new services - Deliver and measure the effectiveness of ads - Show personalized content, depending on your settings - Show personalized ads, depending on your settings If you choose to “Reject all,” we will not use cookies for these additional purposes. Non-personalized content and ads are influenced by things like the content you’re currently viewing and your location (ad serving is based on general location). Personalized content and ads can also include things like video recommendations, a customized YouTube homepage, and tailored ads based on past activity, like the videos you watch and the things you search for on YouTube. We also use cookies and data to tailor the experience to be age-appropriate, if relevant. Select “More options” to see additional information, including details about managing your privacy settings. You can also visit g.co/privacytools at any time.
