=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Gerhard Richter - Overview | Masters & Contemporary]
Awards: Praemium Imperiale, Tokyo, (1997); Wolf Prize, Jerusalem (1994-1995); the Oskar Kokoschka Prize, Vienna (1985); and Arnold Bode Prize, Kassel, Germany (1981). Made an honorary citizen of Cologne in April 2007. Gerhard Richter was born in Dresden in 1932 to a middle class family.
URL: https://masterscontemporary.com/artists/72-gerhard-richter/overview/

[Oskar-Kokoschka-Prize - Collection and Archive]
Oskar-Kokoschka-Prize In 1981, shortly after the artist's death (1886-1980), the Oskar Kokoschka Prize was established in commemoration. It is awarded biannually by the Austrian federal government for outstanding achievements in the field of fine arts.
URL: https://kunstsammlungundarchiv.at/en/oskar-kokoschka-centre/oskar-kokoschka-preis/

[Oskar Kokoschka - Wikipedia]
Oskar Kokoschka CBE (1 March 1886 - 22 February 1980) was an Austrian (though, at times during his long life, he had also Czech and British citizenship) artist, poet, playwright and teacher, best known for his intense expressionistic portraits and landscapes, as well as his theories on vision that influenced the Viennese Expressionist movement.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Oskar_Kokoschka

[Art, New - Yumpu]
He has been the recipient of numerous prizes, including the Praemium Imperiale, Tokyo, (1997); Wolf Prize, Jerusalem (1994-1995); the Oskar Kokoschka Prize, Vienna (1985); and Arnold Bode Prize, Kassel, Germany (1981). The artist is represented by the Marian Goodman Gallery in New York.
URL: https://www.yumpu.com/en/document/view/21037845/gerhard-richter-sinbad-flag-art-foundation/2

[Information — Oskar Kokoschka Centre — Collection and Archive]
The Oskar Kokoschka Centre received a substantial boost in 1998 with the permanent loan of extensive holdings from the Oskar Kokoschka Dokumentation Pöchlarn. Founded in 1973 in OK's hometown, the institution has prints, archival materials, photographs and a library.
URL: https://kunstsammlungundarchiv.at/en/oskar-kokoschka-centre/ueber-uns/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Gerhard Richter - Overview | Masters & Contemporary] ---
Birth Name: Gerhard Richter Born: 9 February 1932, Dresden, Germany Nationality: German Education: Dresden Art Academy, Dresden Kunstakademie Düsseldorf, Düsseldorf. Awards: Praemium Imperiale, Tokyo, (1997); Wolf Prize, Jerusalem (1994–1995); the Oskar Kokoschka Prize, Vienna (1985); and Arnold Bode Prize, Kassel, Germany (1981). Made an honorary citizen of Cologne in April 2007. Gerhard Richter was born in Dresden in 1932 to a middle class family. Like many Germans of his generation, his relatives were involved in the Nazi movement; his mother's brother, Uncle Rudi died a young Nazi officer, while Richter's mentally disabled aunt was imprisoned in a Hitler euthanasia camp. Rigorous ideology and death have haunted Richter since he was just a child, perhaps causing his strong dislike for ideology of any kind and underpinning the attraction that nature, as an indiscriminate force, holds for him. Support from his mother encouraged him to become an artist during his mid-teens and he embarked on a classical education at the Dresden Art Academy in Communist East Germany. Years later and a few months prior to the erection of the Berlin Wall, he and his wife fled with only a suitcase to Düsseldorf in West Germany. From 1961 to 1964, Richter studied at the Staatliche Kunstakademie Düsseldorf under Karl Otto Gotz. During the early sixties Richter met and began to work with artists such as Sigmar Polke, Konrad Fischer-Lueg and Georg Baselitz. Their work, and Richter's in particular, began to have an impact in Germany, and eventually international art circles. Richter's beliefs are credited with refreshing art and rejuvenating painting as a medium during a period when many artists chose performance and ready-made media. Together with Polke and Fischer-Lueg, Richter formed a group called the Capitalist Realists. The Capitalist Realists were satirical, often deriving subject matter from print media. Richter began to see art as something that had to be separated from art history; he believed that paintings should focus on the image rather than the reference, the visual rather than the statement. He wanted to find a new way of painting that would not be constricting. Richter emerged from the group to become one of the most sought after contemporary artists in the world. Richter's first solo exhibition was held at Mobelhaus Berges, Düsseldorf in 1963. It was the first presentation of his photo-based painting style. Richter blurred the paintings, modernising traditional art through technique, and using photography as his source of material. These blurred paintings of photographs are close to reality but also contain a nostalgic distance, because the eye can never precisely capture the image being viewed, rather like trying to remember the features of a person whom one hasn't seen for a while. Only the outline is remembered, and the rest blurred. With his photo-based paintings of regular images, Richter has tried to subvert the hierarchy of art and the everyday. "I believe in nothing", he has said. In 1967 Richter won the Junger Westen Prize and began to paint the Colour Charts, Grey Paintings and Forty-Eight Portraits; the Colour Charts are structured on a pre-established system of colour determination, removing artistic whim; the grey paintings contain no interpretable images but are experiments in brushstroke and the application of paint; the portraits are images of intellectuals Richter selected from an encyclopedia. In 1972 Richter was chosen to represent Germany at the Venice Biennale. That same year, he exhibited at Documenta in Kassel, where he showed again in 1977, 1982 and 1987. At Documenta in 1982 Richter was awarded the Arnold Bode Prize and in 1985 in Vienna the Oskar Kokoschka Prize. Richter's first exhibition in the U.S. took place at the Reinhard Onnasch Gallery in 1973. Fifteen years later in 1988 he was given his first North American retrospective organized by the Art Gallery of Ontario, Toronto and The Museum of Contemporary Art, Chicago. In 2001 the Museum of Modern Art in New York exhibited a retrospective of Richter's paintings called "Forty Years of Painting". Curated by Robert Storr, the exhibition was critically acclaimed. The 2001 Retrospective at MOMA displayed how diverse Richter's paintings are. His early work is of blurred figurative paintings, both with and without colour followed by seductive abstract paintings, with a colour palette that is either brilliant or subdued. His surprisingly diverse range of work has received prolonged discussion from critics, especially due to Richter's disregard for "traditional" stylistic progression and his use of photographs. Unlike American artists Richter wasn't interested in the purity of art. Idealism had disillusioned him from an early age. Instead he painted images without glory; images that rendered the ridiculous, ordinary; the tragic, ordinary; the beautiful, ordinary. Throughout his career Richter has shrunk from giving a psychological insight into his art, leaving his admirers and critics guessing and at times confused. According to him, his work forms from structures and ideas that surround him, nothing more profound than that. In August 2007 Gerhard Richter's new stained glass window for the south transept of Cologne Cathedral was unveiled. The original window was destroyed in World War II and had been replaced with plain glass. Inspired by Richter's 1974 painting "4096 Farben", the window consists of around 11,500 hand-blown glass squares in 72 different colours. Echoing the colours of the surrounding windows, Richter's illuminated abstraction blends a modernist aesthetic with the Gothic ecclesiastical architecture of the cathedral. Richter, a resident of the cathedral city since the early 1980s, was made an honorary citizen of Cologne in April 2007. www.gerhard-richter.com


--- [Oskar-Kokoschka-Prize - Collection and Archive] ---
Oskar-Kokoschka-Prize Oskar-Kokoschka-Prize In 1981, shortly after the artist's death (1886-1980), the Oskar Kokoschka Prize was established in commemoration. It is awarded biannually by the Austrian federal government for outstanding achievements in the field of fine arts. The €20,000 prize is one of Austria's most highly endowed visual arts awards and is presented to distinguished international artists by a jury chaired by the respective Rector of the University of Applied Arts. Previous recipients | 1982 | Hans Hartung | | 1983 | Mario Merz | | 1985 | Gerhard Richter | | 1986 | Siegfried Anzinger, a.o. Preis | | 1987 | Richard Artschwager (nicht angenommen) | | 1990 | Künstler aus Gugging | | 1992 | Agnes Martin | | 1994 | Jannis Kounellis | | 1996 | John Baldessari | | 1998 | Maria Lassnig | | 2000 | Valie Export | | 2002 | Ilya Kabakov | | 2004 | Günter Brus | | 2006 | Martha Rosler | | 2008 | William Kentridge | | 2010 | Raymond Pettibon | | 2012 | Yoko Ono | | 2014 | Peter Weibel | | 2016 | Andrea Fraser | | 2018 | Martha Jungwirth | | 2020 | Monica Bonvicini | | 2022 | Lawrence Weiner | | 2024 | Miriam Cahn | - Oskar-Kokoschka-Preis 2026 geht an Jakob Lena Knebl und Ashley Hans Scheirl - News: Miriam Cahn receives Oskar Kokoschka-Award 2024 - News: Lawrence Weiner receives Oskar Kokoschka-Award 2022 - News: Monica Bonvicini receives Oskar Kokoschka-Award 2020 - News: Martha Jungwirth receives Oskar Kokoschka-Award 2018 - News: Andrea Fraser receives Oskar Kokoschka-Award 2016


--- [Oskar Kokoschka - Wikipedia] ---
Oskar Kokoschka  (1 March 1886 – 22 February 1980) was an Austrian (though, at times during his long life, he had also Czech and British citizenship)  artist, poet, playwright and teacher, best known for his intense expressionistic portraits and landscapes, as well as his theories on vision that influenced the Viennese Expressionist movement.


--- [Art, New - Yumpu] ---
Gerhard Richter, Sinbad - FLAG Art Foundation Gerhard Richter, Sinbad - FLAG Art Foundation Gerhard Richter, Sinbad - FLAG Art Foundation Transform your PDFs into Flipbooks and boost your revenue! Leverage SEO-optimized Flipbooks, powerful backlinks, and multimedia content to professionally showcase your products and significantly increase your reach.


--- [Information — Oskar Kokoschka Centre — Collection and Archive] ---
Information Information Oskar Kokoschka (1886-1980) is one of the most impressive artistic personalities of the modern era. The Oskar Kokoschka Centre is one of the central research institutions dedicated to his life and work and features significant items from his estate, including Kokoschka's library and his extensive collection of photographs and clippings. The Centre delivers important cultural education through publications, exhibitions, and conferences. History From 1904 to 1909, Oskar Kokoschka (1886-1980) studied at the Vienna School of Arts and Crafts known today as the University of Applied Arts Vienna, and was one of its most prominent students. With his unconventional teaching methods he worked as an assistant for General Life Drawing from 1912-13, and even applied to be the rector in 1933. Later, the artist had little to do with his former art school. Yet the ties between Kokoschka and the institution where he had studied remained strong. Subsequently, following the artist's death in 1980, the forecourt of the university (formerly Kopal Square) was renamed Oskar Kokoschka Square. One year later, the Oskar Kokoschka Prize was initiated and awarded for the first time. On the 100th anniversary of Kokoschka's birth, March 1, 1986, a bronze monument created by Alfred Hrdlicka was unveiled at the university at an opening of an exhibition of Kokoschka's cityscapes, accompanied by a symposium presenting the latest research on OK - the abbreviated monogram by which he is often referred to. The Oskar Kokoschka Centre at the University of Applied Arts Vienna owes its establishment in 1996 to the generosity of Dr. Olda Kokoschka (1915-2004), the artist's widow. Her bequest included the artist's entire library, periodical, and photographic estate, along with exhibition documentation, newspaper articles, audio-visual media, posters, and several personal mementos, among them Kokoschka's death mask. The University Art Collection and Archives acquired a diverse repository of materials on Oskar Kokoschka from Reinhold Graf Bethusy-Huc (1930-1998) in the 1980s and 1990s, and prior. Bethusy-Huc, a passionate admirer and dedicated collector of OK, had assembled a research library, autographs, historical archival materials on the reception of his work, memorabilia, as well as copious photographs of the artist's life and work. The Oskar Kokoschka Centre received a substantial boost in 1998 with the permanent loan of extensive holdings from the Oskar Kokoschka Dokumentation Pöchlarn. Founded in 1973 in OK's hometown, the institution has prints, archival materials, photographs and a library. The Kokoschka House – the artist's birthplace, which has been converted into an exhibition centre – has been curating annual special exhibitions as of 1999, with a shifting focus highlighting the many facets of Kokoschka and his circle. Research The Oskar Kokoschka Centre positions itself as a multifaceted research centre. It provides resources for researchers and external projects as well as continuous on-site research on Kokoschka, publishing and communicating through lectures, teaching, exhibitions, and conferences. We would like to draw particular attention to: - Bernadette Reinhold, Oskar Kokoschka und Österreich. Facetten einer politischen Biografie, Böhlau Verlag : Wien 2022, ISBN 978-3-205-21588-2 - International Conference Oskar Kokoschka. New Insights and Perspectives, University of Applied Arts Vienna, February 2020. Conference program - Régine Bonnefoit, Bernadette Reinhold (Hg.), OSKAR KOKOSCHKA. Neue Einblicke und Perspektiven / New Insights and Perspectives, Edition Angewandte De Gruyter: Basel/Boston 2021, ISSN 1866-248X , ISBN 978-3-11-072420-2 Since 2023, the 50th anniversary of the Oskar Kokoschka documentation, and a quarter of a century of close cooperation with the University of Applied Arts Vienna, the Kokoschka in Focus series has been published. Its aim is to accompany the annual special exhibitions at the Kokoschka Museum Pöchlarn with a publication. Exhibitions In addition to its own annual exhibitions in the Kokoschka House in Pöchlarn, the Oskar Kokoschka Centre also acts as a lender to renowned Austrian and international museums in Zurich, Paris, London, New York and elsewhere. The spectrum ranges from various references to Kokoschka to large retrospectives, recently for example - Kokoschka – Das Ich im Brennpunkt, Leopold Museum Wien 2013 - Oskar Kokoschka. Portraits of People and Animals, Museum Boijmans van Beuningen, Rotterdam 2013/14 - Oskar Kokoschka and the Prague Cultural Scene, Nationalgalerie Prag, Ostdeutsche Galerie Regensburg 2015 - Oskar Kokoschka. Expressionist – Migrant – Europäer, Kunsthaus Zürich, Leopold Museum Wien 2018/2019 - Kokoschka. Un Fauve à Vienne, Musée d’Art moderne de Paris, 2022/2023 - Frau in Blau. Oskar Kokoschka und Alma Mahler, Folkwang Museum Essen, 2025 Kokoschka exhibitions in Pöchlarn already existed in the 1960s, even before the founding of OK Dokumentation (1973). They reveal that there are also special places of encounters with the artist's work and life away from large art metropolises. A list of past exhibitions in Pöchlarn can be found here: Cooperations The Oskar Kokoschka Centre positions itself as an internationally networked research institution. Close cooperation partners include the other main Kokoschka institutions and bequeathed estates. - Oskar Kokoschka Foundation, Musée Jenisch, Vevey including online index of the paintings www.oskar-kokoschka.ch - Zurich Central Library, Manuscript Department www.zb.uzh.ch - Oskar Kokoschka Documentation Pöchlarn www.oskarkokoschka.at The Oskar Kokoschka Centre collaborates closely with the Kokoschka House Pöchlarn to curate special annual exhibitions about the artist there. Current exhibition: OSKAR KOKOSCHKA. Schule des Sehens May 10 - October 26, 2025 Kokoschka Museum Pöchlarn Oskar Kokoschka Documentation Pöchlarn Registration OK Newsletter (Oskar Kokoschka Documentation Pöchlarn) Contact Mag.phil. Dr.phil Bernadette Reinhold, Sen.Sc. +43 1 71133 3253 bernadette.reinhold@uni-ak.ac.at Mag. Univ.-Ass. Aneta Zahradnik +43 1 71133 2803 aneta.zahradnik@uni-ak.ac.at Location University of Applied Arts Vienna Oskar Kokoschka Centre Postgasse 6 / Mezzanin 1010 Vienna
