=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Georgi Dimitrov - Wikipedia]
GeorgiDimitrovMihaylov, [a] also known as Georgiy Mihaylovich Dimitrov[b] (18 June 1882 - 2 July1949), was a Bulgariancommunistpoliticianwho served as General Secretary of the Central Committee of the BulgarianCommunistParty from 1933 to1949, and the first leader of theCommunistPeople's Republic of Bulgaria from 1946 to1949.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Georgi_Dimitrov

[Georgi Dimitrov — Wikipédia]
GeorgiDimitrov, de son nom completGeorgiDimitrovMihaylov (en bulgare : Георги Димитров Михайлов, transcription française : GueorguiDimitrovMihaïlov), né le 18 juin 1882 dans le village de Kovatchevtsi près de Pernik (région minière non loin de Sofia) et mort le 2 juillet1949au sanatorium de Barvikha près de ...
URL: https://fr.wikipedia.org/wiki/Georgi_Dimitrov

[Georgi Dimitroff - Wikipedia]
GeorgiDimitroff auf einer Aufnahme unbekannten DatumsGeorgiDimitroff (international transkribiertGeorgiDimitrow Michajlow, bulgarisch Георги Димитров Михайлов; * 18. Juni 1882 in Kowatschewzi, bei Radomir; † 2. Juli1949im Sanatorium Barwicha bei Moskau) war ein bulgarischer Politiker der Bulgarischen Kommunistischen Partei und Begründer der Dimitroff-These. [1 ...
URL: https://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Georgi_Dimitroff

[Dimitrov, Bulgar Premier, Dies in Russian Sanatorium; Famed ...]
MOSCOW, July 2-GeorgiDimitrov, BulgarianCommunistwho for a quarter of a century stood in the front ranks of the Bolsheviki and who had been since 1945 Premier of Bulgaria, died at 9:35 A.M ...
URL: https://www.nytimes.com/1949/07/03/archives/dimitrov-bulgar-premier-dies-in-russian-sanatorium-famed.html

[July 2, 1949. Georgi Dimitrov died 75 years ago VIDEO - Факти]
On July 2,1949at9:15 a.m.GeorgiDimitrovdiesinthe sanatorium "Barviha" near Moscow. Vasil Kolarov became the Prime Minister of Bulgaria. Prominent Soviet doctors diagnosed "heart failure, liver cirrhosis, diabetes, chronic prostatitis". There is a hypothesis of a political assassination ofDimitrovon the instructions of Stalin. It is a little-known and secret fact thatDimitrov'shair ...
URL: https://fakti.bg/en/bulgaria/893172-2-uli-1949-g-predi-75-godini-umira-georgi-dimitrov-video


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Georgi Dimitrov - Wikipedia] ---
Georgi Dimitrov Mihaylov, also known as Georgiy Mihaylovich Dimitrov (18 June 1882 – 2 July 1949), was a Bulgarian communist politician who served as General Secretary of the Central Committee of the Bulgarian Communist Party from 1933 to 1949, and the first leader of the Communist People's Republic of Bulgaria from 1946 to 1949. From 1935 to 1943, he was the General Secretary of the Communist International.
Born in western Bulgaria, Dimitrov worked as a printer and trade unionist during his youth. He was elected to the Bulgarian parliament as a socialist during the First World War and campaigned against his country's involvement in the conflict, which led to his brief imprisonment for sedition. In 1919, he helped found the Bulgarian Communist Party. Two years later, he moved to the Soviet Russia and was elected to the executive committee of Profintern. In 1923, Dimitrov led a failed communist uprising against the government of Aleksandar Tsankov and was subsequently forced into exile. He lived in the Soviet Union until 1929, at which time he relocated to Germany and became head of the Comintern operations in central Europe.
Dimitrov rose to international prominence in the aftermath of the 1933 Reichstag fire trial. Accused of plotting the arson, he refused counsel and mounted an eloquent defence against his Nazi accusers, in particular Hermann Göring, ultimately winning acquittal. After the trial, he relocated to Moscow and was elected head of Comintern.
In 1946, Dimitrov returned to Bulgaria after 22 years in exile and was elected prime minister of the newly founded People's Republic of Bulgaria. He negotiated with Josip Broz Tito to create a federation of Southern Slavs, which led to the 1947 Bled accord. The plan ultimately fell apart over differences regarding the future of the joint country as well as the Macedonian question, and was completely abandoned following the fallout between Stalin and Tito. Dimitrov died after a short illness in 1949 in Barvikha near Moscow. His embalmed body was housed in the Georgi Dimitrov Mausoleum in Sofia until its removal in 1990; the mausoleum was demolished in 1999.


--- [Georgi Dimitrov — Wikipédia] ---
Georgi Dimitrov, de son nom complet Georgi Dimitrov Mihaylov (en bulgare : Георги Димитров Михайлов, transcription française : Gueorgui Dimitrov Mihaïlov), né le 18 juin 1882 dans le village de Kovatchevtsi près de Pernik (région minière non loin de Sofia) et mort le 2 juillet 1949 au sanatorium de Barvikha près de Moscou, est un homme d'État bulgare. Il est président du Conseil des ministres de la république populaire de Bulgarie du 23 novembre 1946 à sa mort.
Dirigeant communiste, il mène l'insurrection infructueuse de 1923, ce qui le conduit à s'exiler en URSS, d'où il dirige l'Internationale communiste entre 1934 et 1943. Arrêté en Allemagne et jugé pour complicité dans l'incendie du Reichstag en 1933, il prouve son innocence lors du procès de Leipzig et acquiert une renommée internationale.
De retour en Bulgarie après la Seconde Guerre mondiale, il devient président du Conseil des ministres en 1946 et secrétaire général du comité central du Parti communiste bulgare en 1948. Proche du maréchal Tito, il tente avec celui-ci de former une Fédération balkanique réunissant la Bulgarie et la Yougoslavie, un projet suscitant la désapprobation de Staline. Il théorise également l'idée que le fascisme est le fait des éléments les plus radicaux du capitalisme.


--- [Georgi Dimitroff - Wikipedia] ---
Georgi Dimitroff (international transkribiert Georgi Dimitrow Michajlow, bulgarisch Георги Димитров Михайлов; * 18. Juni 1882 in Kowatschewzi, bei Radomir; † 2. Juli 1949 im Sanatorium Barwicha bei Moskau) war ein bulgarischer Politiker der Bulgarischen Kommunistischen Partei und Begründer der Dimitroff-These. Von 1935 bis 1943 war er Generalsekretär der Komintern in Moskau, von 1946 bis 1949 bulgarischer Ministerpräsident. International bekannt wurde er vor allem durch seine erfolgreiche Selbstverteidigung im Reichstagsbrandprozess.


--- [Dimitrov, Bulgar Premier, Dies in Russian Sanatorium; Famed ...] ---
Supported by Dimitrov, Bulgar Premier, Dies in Russian Sanatorium; Famed Revolutionary, Who Defied Nazis at Trial, Directed Comintern July 3, 1949, Page 1Buy Reprints MOSCOW, July 2-Georgi Dimitrov, Bulgarian Communist who for a quarter of a century stood in the front ranks of the Bolsheviki and who had been since 1945 Premier of Bulgaria, died at 9:35 A.M. today in a sanatorium about twenty miles outside of Moscow. At midafternoon, the news of the veteran Communist's death was announced by the Moscow radio and the center of the city rapidly assumed a mourning aspect. Red and black mourning flags fluttered out around the Hall of Trade Unions, where the body lies in state. Mr. Dimitrov was 67 years old and for two months before his death had been in the sanatorium under the care of the Soviet Union's best medical specialists in a vain fight against the diabetic complications that caused his death. The fight came to an end at the quiet little village of Barvikha this morning. Possibly Mr. Dimitrov's most spectacular moment came in 1933 when he was one of those indicted for complicity in the burning of the Berlin Reichstag. At the trial he was an outstanding figure, conducting his own defense and standing up firmly under all Nazi attempts to break his story. He won world renown for his conduct in the trial and was acquitted. Mr. Dimitrov then came to Moscow where he became General Secretary of the Comintern, a position he held until the dissolution of that organization in 1943. He returned to Bulgaria in 1944 with its liberation by the Soviet Army. Mr. Dimitrov's body was brought to Moscow by a formal cortege passing through streets filled with mourners, and the news of his death spread rapidly through the capital. An honor guard took up formal positions. In the late afternoon Mr. Dimitrov's body was placed in state in the black-and-red decorated building. It rested in the Hall of Columns against a great bank of flowers decorated with the Bulgarian national flag. Thousands of mourners, including many who came from memorial meetings at factories and offices, formed a line many blocks long and eight abreast and filed through the building to pay their last respects. In the Hall of Columns a hundred-piece orchestra played funeral music. Two guards of honor, made up of Soviet officers including generals and marshals, flanked the bier. To the right of the bier were Bulgarian mourners, including members of the diplomatic and military missions. The official announcement of Mr. Dimitrov's death was made in the name of the Central Committee of the Communist party and the Soviet Council of Ministers. The announcement called him "our comrade and beloved brother." Only two weeks ago Mr. Dimitrov was visited for the last time by a small group of his countrymen, including the Bulgarian Ambassador, Naiden Nikolov, and a small group of others, including a Bulgarian student. Mr. Dimitrov conversed with the group and gave the student what proved to be his final message-a message to Bulgarian youth to work and study and help to build a democratic Bulgaria. He said that Bulgaria also must stand firmly on the side of peace, democracy and comradely relations with the Soviet Union. BULGARIAN LEADER DEAD IN MOSCOW Continued from Page 1 Related Content Advertisement


--- [July 2, 1949. Georgi Dimitrov died 75 years ago VIDEO - Факти] ---
On July 2, 1949 at 9:15 a.m. Georgi Dimitrov dies in the sanatorium "Barviha" near Moscow. Vasil Kolarov became the Prime Minister of Bulgaria. Prominent Soviet doctors diagnosed "heart failure, liver cirrhosis, diabetes, chronic prostatitis". There is a hypothesis of a political assassination of Dimitrov on the instructions of Stalin. It is a little-known and secret fact that Dimitrov's hair and brain were examined by the Ministry of the Interior and mercury was found in them much above the usual dose for normal processes - about 48 mg/kg with a norm of 2.33 mg/kg. According to experts, the poisonous doses in Vozhda's brain are proof that his death was not due to advanced alcoholism, as was rumored, nor to ischemic disease, but to probable poisoning. Back on July 3, 1949, the Council of Ministers decided that the body of Georgi Dimitrov should be embalmed and placed in a mausoleum. His body was embalmed in Moscow and transported by train to Sofia. The protocols for this preparation have been preserved in Moscow. They said that “pouring of special embalming fluids into the limbs and additional local injection into the tissues of the chest and abdomen”. In addition, a local injection was performed in the toes and palms to prevent further deformation. The Soviet team of experts bandaged Dimitrov's body with rubber bandages and adhesive tape to keep the body moist during its journey to Sofia. Together with the body of the deceased Leader, a team of the best specialist embalmers, led by the famous Prof. Boris Zbarski, arrived in the Bulgarian capital. They were accommodated and immediately began work in the Vrana Palace, which at that time was the residence of Prime Minister Georgi Dimitrov. The embalming took place in today's bedroom of ex-prime minister Simeon of Saxe-Coburg and his wife, Queen Margarita. The room is on the second floor of the palace, in its southern wing, recalls "Factor". The mausoleum was completed on July 10, 1949 in a record time of six days. The communist government in the People's Republic of Bulgaria declared him the “leader and teacher of the Bulgarian people” and commemorates his burial with a magnificent ceremony. A group of persons inconvenient to the authorities are imprisoned in camps. The mausoleum becomes a place of worship, it is included in the state protocol for laying wreaths by foreign delegations, but only from communist countries and from Third World countries.
