=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Phyllida Barlow - Wikipedia]
After graduating from Slade School of Art in 1966, Barlow began a forty-year-long career as a teacher in various institutions, starting with a part-time teaching position in sculpture at the former West of England College of Art, now known as the University of the West of England, Bristol. [10] While here, she learned traditional techniques of sculpture and discovered an affinity for the ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Phyllida_Barlow

[Phyllida Barlow - National Galleries of Scotland]
Barlow was born in Newcastle upon Tyne and studied fine art at Chelsea College of Art and Design (1960-63) and the Slade (1963-66). She was known for her large imposing sculptures made from what she called 'crap' materials, such as; plywood, plaster, cement, polystyrene, spray-paint, PVA, scrim, cardboard, felt and rubber. Barlow's influential teaching career spanned a forty year period ...
URL: https://www.nationalgalleries.org/art-and-artists/artists/phyllida-barlow

[Phyllida Barlow, 78, Dies; Sculptor of Playful, Scale-Defying Works]
Phyllida Barlow, the British artist who after a four-decade teaching career found fame as a groundbreaking artist in her own right in her mid-60s, creating playful, often large-scale sculptures ...
URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/03/15/arts/phyllida-barlow-dead.html

[Phyllida Barlow — Art21]
Prior to receiving exhibitions in major museums and galleries, Barlow utilized public and temporary spaces to show her work, developing her exploration of physical space and challenging conventional notions of where sculpture could exist. For forty years, Barlow also worked as a teacher, fostering some of Britain's most distinguished artists.
URL: https://art21.org/artist/phyllida-barlow/

[MANY Definition & Meaning - Merriam-Webster]
The meaning of MANY is consisting of or amounting to a large but indefinite number. How to use many in a sentence.
URL: https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/many


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Phyllida Barlow - Wikipedia] ---
Dame Gillian Phyllida Barlow  (4 April 1944 – 12 March 2023) was a British visual artist. She studied at Chelsea College of Art (1960–1963) and the Slade School of Art (1963–1966). She joined the staff of the Slade in the late 1960s and taught there for more than forty years. She retired from academia in 2009 and in turn became an emerita professor of fine art. She had an important influence on younger generations of artists; at the Slade her students included Rachel Whiteread and Ángela de la Cruz. In 2017 she represented Great Britain at the Venice Biennale.




--- [Phyllida Barlow - National Galleries of Scotland] ---
Phyllida Barlow was born in Newcastle upon Tyne and studied fine art at Chelsea College of Art and Design (1960-63) and the Slade School of Fine Art (1963-66). She is known for her large imposing sculptures made from what she calls ‘crap’ materials, such as; plywood, plaster, cement, polystyrene, spray-paint, PVA, scrim, cardboard, felt and rubber. Barlow’s influential teaching career spanned a forty year period which saw her work at art schools in Bristol, Brighton, Chelsea, Camberwell and Slade. Her students included the contemporary artists Rachel Whiteread, Tacita Dean, Douglas Gordon and Martin Creed. Barlow lives and works in London. ARTIST ROOMS includes one work by Barlow, untitled: upturnedhouse, 2 2012, a large-scale sculpture made of wood, steel, polyurethane foam and cement with a surface comprising multiple multi-coloured panels. As its title indicates, the structure resembles an upturned house, which takes on a slightly unbalanced, restless presence at the centre of the gallery, blocking and interrupting the viewer's progress through the space. As she has stated, since the late 1990s Barlow has been interested in ‘the space between the objects and what that did to an audience, how the audience moved around the works and discovered each one of them’ (quoted in Coles and Fabrizi 2004, p.47). "Initially the audience is myself. How I’m physically negotiating the space is often more important than the object itself. They are obstacles to be navigated, protagonists that I feel I’m encountering. The private view consequently comes as a terrible shock, because here are all these people who are there to use the space. It feels extraordinary that the audience are being allowed on the stage and are somehow grabbing the script from me!" Phyllida Barlow (quoted in Basciano 2010, p.72.)


--- [Phyllida Barlow, 78, Dies; Sculptor of Playful, Scale-Defying Works] ---
Supported by Phyllida Barlow, 78, Dies; Sculptor of Playful, Scale-Defying Works After decades of teaching, the British-born Ms. Barlow found fame as an artist late in life, creating monumental sculptures that wryly commented on industrial society. Phyllida Barlow, the British artist who after a four-decade teaching career found fame as a groundbreaking artist in her own right in her mid-60s, creating playful, often large-scale sculptures that wryly commented on industrial society, died on March 12 in London. She was 78. Her gallery, Hauser & Wirth, confirmed the death but did not give a cause. Drawing inspiration from industrialism’s waste and decay, Ms. Barlow used everyday materials like plaster, cardboard and wood to create sculptures, often vibrantly hued, in which she manipulated perceptions of space and scale, arriving at monumental yet intimate statements. In 2012, the New Museum in New York introduced her work to American viewers with a solo show titled “Siege.” Among other works, the exhibition featured 21 arch-shaped gray structures made of cement and plastic foam, haphazardly splattered with colorful specks of paint, which called to mind both druid ruins and plumbing tubes. They were surrounded by detritus-like sculptures — crumpled black garbage bags, crushed boxes and mounds of ribbons — that were mighty, whimsical and gloomy, all at once. “It reads all together as, among other things, an anarchic reflection on a society of spectacle and waste,” Ken Johnson said in a review of the show for The New York Times. “I have a fascination with abandoned industrial objects,” Ms. Barlow told the art content producer Art21 in a short documentary about her art, explaining how her work was inspired by her surroundings, including the vista out of her home’s windows in north London. Related Content Advertisement


--- [Phyllida Barlow — Art21] ---
Phyllida Barlow Phyllida Barlow was born in Newcastle upon Tyne, England, in 1944. Inspired by the urban environment, Barlow’s sculptures marry unconventional materials such as cardboard, plywood, plaster, and cement with vibrantly colored paint and fabrics. Her invented forms are created through layered processes of accumulation, removal, and juxtaposition—gestures that Barlow describes as “more functional than artistic.” The resulting massive works challenge viewers’ experiences of physical space, stretching the limits of mass, volume, and height as they tower, block, and interrupt space. Yet these works remain distinctly anti-monumental; the artist leaves exposed, unfinished seams, revealing the means of the works’ making and playing with the tensions between hardness and softness, the imperious and the comic, and the painterly and the sculptural. Influenced by the early 1960s New Generation Sculpture exhibitions at Whitechapel Gallery in London, Barlow began experimenting early in her career with the sculptural potential of materials unassociated with traditional sculpture, like fiberglass, resin, fabric, and paint. Prior to receiving exhibitions in major museums and galleries, Barlow utilized public and temporary spaces to show her work, developing her exploration of physical space and challenging conventional notions of where sculpture could exist. For forty years, Barlow also worked as a teacher, fostering some of Britain’s most distinguished artists. Since 2009, she has worked exclusively on her art practice and exhibited her work widely in the United Kingdom and internationally. Barlow studied at Chelsea College of Art in London from 1960 to 1963 and Slade School of Fine Art in London from 1963 to 1966. Major awards include receiving the Aachen Art Prize (2012) and being named a Royal Academician (2011). She has had major exhibitions at Royal Academy of the Arts, London, England (2019); Jupiter Artland, Edinburgh, Scotland (2018); Turner Contemporary, Margate, England (2017); Venice Biennale, Italy (2013, 2017); Nasher Sculpture Center, Dallas, Texas (2015); Tate Britain, London, England (2014); and New Museum, New York (2012), among others. Barlow lived and worked in London, where she passed away in March 2023. Videos 3 - Phyllida Barlow “Making work that does not have a destination has its loneliness and its sadness about it. Many artists endure that for their entire lives, and it’s heroic.” Phyllida Barlow


--- [MANY Definition & Meaning - Merriam-Webster] ---
1 : consisting of or amounting to a large but indefinite number worked for many years the many advantages of an education 2 : being one of a large but indefinite number many a man many another student see also: plural in construction 1 : a large but indefinite number a good many of them 2 : the great majority of people the many Love words? Need even more definitions? Merriam-Webster unabridged
