=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[JUN TAKAHASHI | FREEDOM DICTIONARY]
Jun 2009 Invited to PITTI UOMO 76 for 2010 SS Men’s Collection and presented the first men’s only runway show Oct 2010 Launched “GYAKUSOU”, a performance running collection in collaboration with Nike (2010 Fall/Holiday) Mar 2012 Launched “UU” collection, a collaborative design project with Uniqlo that focused on the family (2012 SS)
URL: https://freepaperdictionary.com/article/jun-takahashi/

[Exploring UNDERCOVER and Jun Takahashi's Works | Hypebeast]
The late ’80s and early ’90s played a crucial part to the formation of UNDERCOVER. Around 1988, street culture legend Hiroshi Fujiwara started a column in Takarajimamagazine called “Last Orgy,” which explored hip-hop, punk, DJing and skate culture. It became a late night television show and would lay the inspirational groundwork for contemporary Ja...
URL: https://hypebeast.com/2016/9/exploring-jun-takahashi-and-undercover

[Jun Takahashi - Wikipedia]
Jun Takahashi (高橋 盾, Takahashi Jun; IPA: [takahaɕi dʑɯɴ]; born 21 September 1969) is a Japanese fashion designer who created the brand "UnderCover" (alternatively rendered as "Under Cover" or "Undercover").
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jun_Takahashi

[Grokipedia: Jun Takahashi]
Learn more about Jun Takahashi on Grokipedia.
URL: https://grokipedia.com/page/Jun_Takahashi

[We Make Noise Not Clothes: A Look at Undercover | Grailed]
Oct 20, 2016 · Takahashi’s first men’s-only runway show, “Less But Better,” was a reference to industrial designer Dieter Rams, whose famous mantra informed the simple and modern designs.
URL: https://www.grailed.com/drycleanonly/master-class-undercover


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [JUN TAKAHASHI | FREEDOM DICTIONARY] ---
JUN TAKAHASHI デザイナー:高橋盾 1990年、デザイナー高橋盾が、文化服装学園在学中に友人とスタート。1994年、東京コレクション に初参加。1997年、毎日新聞社毎日ファッション大賞新人賞受賞。2001年、毎日ファッション大賞受 賞。2002年、発表の場をパリへと移す。2010年よりNIKEとの協業によるパフォーマンスランニング ウェアライン”GYAKUSOU”をスタート。2013年、二度目となる毎日ファッション大賞受賞。2015年、 ブランド設立25周年を迎え、東京オペラシティアートギャラリーにて初の回顧展「Labyrinth of UNDERCOVER “25 year retrospective”」を開催。 2019 Spring/Summerシーズンから、パリでの ショー形式の発表はウィメンズからメンズコレクションへと切り替えている。 Jun Takahashi / Designer Sep 1969 Born in Kiryu, Gunma prefecture, Japan Apr 1988 Entered Bunka Fashion College Apr 1990 Started fashion brand “UNDERCOVER” with a friend while in school Mar 1991 Graduated from the Fashion Design Department of Bunka Fashion College Apr 1994 Presented debut show during Tokyo Fashion Week with 1994-95 AW Collection Sep 1997 Awarded the New Face Prize and Shiseido sponsorship prize in Mainichi Fashion Grand Prix sponsored by the Mainichi national daily newspaper Jan 2000 Transformed UNDERCOVER Limited Liability Company to UNDERCOVER Stock Company Sep 2001 Awarded the First Prize of the Mainichi Fashion Grand Prix sponsored by the Mainichi national daily newspaper Oct 2002 Held the first show in Paris for 2003 SS Collection Jun 2009 Invited to PITTI UOMO 76 for 2010 SS Men’s Collection and presented the first men’s only runway show Oct 2010 Launched “GYAKUSOU”, a performance running collection in collaboration with Nike (2010 Fall/Holiday) Mar 2012 Launched “UU” collection, a collaborative design project with Uniqlo that focused on the family (2012 SS) Sep 2013 Awarded the First Prize of the Mainichi Fashion Grand Prix for the second time Oct 2015 Curated the brand’s first museum exhibition, titled “Labyrinth of UNDERCOVER 25 year retrospective,” at the Tokyo Opera City Art Gallery Jun 2016 Launched “the Shepherd UNDERCOVER”, a non-seasonal men’s premium line Jan 2018 Invited to PITTI UOMO 93 for 2018-19 AW Collection for the second time and staged back-to-back shows with TAKAHIROMIYASHITATheSoloist. Jun 2018 Joined the Paris men’s runway show calendar from 2019 SS Collection Jan 2019 Designed graphics for Valentino 2019-20 AW Men’s & Women’s Collections. UNDERCOVER and VALENTINO men’s runway shows presented on the same day and both shared these graphical elements.


--- [Exploring UNDERCOVER and Jun Takahashi's Works | Hypebeast] ---
Decoding UNDERCOVER: Exploring Jun Takahashi's Pivotal Moments and Works From his fruitful collaborations to his groundbreaking fashion shows. There will always be poetry in the punk-influenced designs of Jun Takahashi’s UNDERCOVER label. The famed founder was after all, the lead singer for the cover band Tokyo Sex Pistols. And just like the music genre UNDERCOVER is often alluded to, which extends to other sub-categories like “afro-punk,” “skate punk,” or even “ska punk,” the brand prides itself in taking on ever-evolving art forms in each of its collections. On inspiration vs originality, the designer once said, “What is in my head? I don’t know. Every season, I promise myself that I will not repeat myself. This is my driving force. I have to create something new. It is getting difficult every season though, but so far I am able to live up to my promise.” It’s within that promise that UNDERCOVER will always be seen as one of fashion’s most groundbreaking design houses. Progress is paramount and the label gets courageously creative every year, while still passionately keeping in focus its rebelliously street and punk-centric narrative. We see this in Jun Takahashi’s other ambitious projects as well, such as NOWHERE (his retail shop with NIGO), his diffusion lines and fruitful collaborations with BAPE, Uniqlo, Nike, and Supreme to name a few. He’s even created sculptures, homeware products, toys and films that fully exhibit the house’s powerfully imaginative vision. Naturally, in everything Jun Takahashi does, the avant-garde element will always be at play no matter what. Sign up for a FREE Account To View More Gain access to all of our content, insights and editorials by registering for a free account now. UNDERCOVER just celebrated its 25th anniversary last year — its longevity is evidenced by the dedicated fans who’ve always had an unyielding trust for Mr. Takahashi’s direction. Here, we explore some of the works and concepts that has pushed the Japanese brand to the forefront of fashion and beyond, from its early Ura-Harajuku days to its ever-expanding global presence in high-end, fast retail and street culture. “We Make Noise, Not Clothes” is more than just one of the label’s popular slogans, it’s a testament to the creative force Jun Takahashi has become over the years. Last Orgy Series and NOWHERE Sign up for a FREE Account To View More Gain access to all of our content, insights and editorials by registering for a free account now. The late ’80s and early ’90s played a crucial part to the formation of UNDERCOVER. Around 1988, street culture legend Hiroshi Fujiwara started a column in Takarajima magazine called “Last Orgy,” which explored hip-hop, punk, DJing and skate culture. It became a late night television show and would lay the inspirational groundwork for contemporary Japanese fashion brands. After Fujiwara, friends NIGO and Jun Takahashi continued the column in the form of “Last Orgy 2.” Consequently, the duo also used the platform as a springboard for their first collaborative retail shop, NOWHERE. NOWHERE opened its doors in 1993 and was considered the quintessential store in Harajuku for the best streetwear brands. It started carrying mostly UNDERCOVER products and NIGO’s outsourced American and vintage items that also included hard-to-find sneakers. The establishment would evolve and every weekend, massive lines would form outside the shop by customers wanting to get their hands on pieces from brands like NIGO’s A BATHING APE, TET’s and Skatething’s 40% AGAINST RIGHTS and Fujiwara and Takahashi’s ANARCHY FOREVER FOREVER ANARCHY. Early Graphics and Artworks on T-Shirts Graphic T-Shirts laid the foundation for the brand and it’s been ever-present throughout each collection. From its tees adorned with the famous “U” insignia to the music-themed artworks and artist collaborations alongside names like Kaws and Futura, UNDERCOVER has made it known that it will always be an influential part of streetwear culture. The brand even held an exhibition and released a book on its graphic artworks throughout the years. Significant Runway Collections In 1994, Takahashi staged his first women’s runway show in Japan. It was a big hit and one of fashion’s most notable figures, Rei Kawakubo of Comme des Garçons took notice right away. The two eventually solidified a friendship and their relationship would be key to UNDERCOVER’s inevitable global expansion. Inspired, mentored and encouraged by Kawakubo, Jun Takahashi went on to debut at Paris Fashion Week in October of 2002 with his womens 2003 spring/summer collection entitled, “SCAB.” The range showcased the designer’s ability to create art out of clothing, exhibiting an array of beautiful and complicated construction techniques. It was the first time UNDERCOVER was presented at such a colossal global stage and it solidified Jun Takahashi as a designer the fashion world should keep their eyes on. At PITTI UOMO 76, UNDERCOVER held its first men’s only runway show. The 2010 spring/summer collection, inspired by German industrial designer Dieter Rams, made its way to the catwalk that included spaced-aged inspired themes. There were sleek tailored pieces alongside functional garments. The technically-sound construction heightened the clean and uncomplicated look of the designs. Collaborations and Partnerships UNDERCOVER is widely known for its collaborative projects — other brands are always keen on working with Jun Takahashi because of his avant garde vision. Some earlier and on-going collaborations have fluorished with NIGO’s BAPE and Hiroshi Fujiwara for the duo’s ANARCHY FOREVER FOREVER ANARCHY brand. Iconic streetwear imprint Supreme has also tapped UNDERCOVER and there’s also the house’s releases with artists such as Kaws and Futura. Toys designed with the Medicom brand have also gotten a lot of attention. The list is long, but perhaps the most important partnerships have come alongside big name retailers like Uniqlo for a family-centric apparel collection and Nike for the running sport-focused Gyakusou line. Standout Projects Whether included in each collection or just an extension of his creativity, Jun Takahashi has always worked on some highly captivating projects. His hand-made “Grace” dolls that were a part of the 2009 spring/summer collection are a fine example. According to the designer, he made the dolls to show a fantasy world where these fluffy creatures who wear his designs must be kept from humans. It’s a comment on “interpersonal relationships” and “distance.” Another visually-appealing project Jun Takahashi has done is with the UNDERMAN series. According to the founder, UNDERMAN, which was included in the 2011 spring/summer range was an “homage” to the low-tech, television heroes of the 70s. He adds that UNDERMAN is not just about good vs evil, but “good and evil eventually becoming one in the end. Supreme and UNDERCOVER are once again collaborating on a collection for the Fall/Winter 2016 season. For full imagery and information on the items and their release date, click here.


--- [Jun Takahashi - Wikipedia] ---
Jun Takahashi (高橋 盾, Takahashi Jun; IPA: [takahaɕi dʑɯɴ]; born 21 September 1969) is a Japanese fashion designer who created the brand "UnderCover" (alternatively rendered as "Under Cover" or "Undercover").


--- [Grokipedia: Jun Takahashi] ---
Jun Takahashi (born September 21, 1969) is a Japanese fashion designer best known as the founder of the avant-garde label Undercover, which blends streetwear, punk aesthetics, and high fashion elements to create narrative-driven collections.[1]Born in Kiryu, a textile-manufacturing city in Gunma Prefecture, Takahashi grew up in an environment steeped in fabric production before moving to Tokyo for his studies.[2] He enrolled at the prestigious Bunka Fashion College, where he developed his design skills amid the vibrant Harajuku street culture of the late 1980s and early 1990s.[1] He co-founded the influential Harajuku boutique Nowhere with fellow designer Nigo in 1993, marking his entry into Tokyo's underground fashion scene.[2]Takahashi launched Undercover in 1993, initially focusing on experimental pieces that drew from punk subculture, music, and youth rebellion, often incorporating subversive motifs like decay and transformation.[1] Encouraged by Comme des Garçons founder Rei Kawakubo, he debuted the label at Paris Fashion Week in 2002, establishing Undercover as a global force in avant-gardefashion.[1] Over the years, his work has evolved to include womenswear, menswear, and accessories, with notable collections exploring themes such as utopian societies and personal identity; in 2018, Undercover temporarily ceased womenswear runway shows to focus on menswear but resumed womenswear presentations by 2020 and continues both as of 2025.[3][4] Takahashi has also built a reputation through high-profile collaborations, including activewear lines with Nike (Gyakusou), diffusion collections with Uniqlo since 2011, a capsule with Supreme in 2016, and contributions to Valentino's Fall/Winter 2019 menswear.[1] His reclusive yet influential approach has positioned him as a key figure in bridging Japanese streetwear with international luxury, maintaining Undercover's independence for over three decades.[5] Early years Upbringing in Japan Jun Takahashi was born on September 21, 1969, in Kiryū, Gunma Prefecture, Japan.[6][7] Kiryū, a rural industrial town approximately two hours north of Tokyo, has long been renowned for its silk production and textile heritage, dating back over 1,200 years as one of Japan's premier weaving centers.[8] Growing up in this environment, Takahashi experienced a quiet, isolated childhood marked by stark seasonal contrasts and limited social outlets, which he later described as fostering a vivid imagination amid a "very dark atmosphere."[9] His father managed an office cleaning company and was known for his meticulous attention to personal style, often wearing flared pants and impeccably pressed slacks, while the family frequently watched movies at home.[9]As a teenager in the 1980s, Takahashi developed a deep fascination with punk rock and Western music, particularly bands like The Clash and the Sex Pistols, whose rebellious ethos and aggressive sounds profoundly impacted him starting around age 13.[7] This period coincided with Japan's burgeoning youth subcultures, where he gravitated toward the DIY spirit of punk, experimenting with custom clothing such as silk-screened T-shirts and even serving as the lead singer in a notoriously poor Sex Pistols cover band.[7][9] Drawn to the rule-breaking energy of these influences, Takahashi also embraced streetwear and skateboarding scenes emerging in Tokyo, blending them with the vibrant Harajuku district's eclectic styles to explore personal expression through altered garments and subcultural aesthetics.[10][11]These formative experiences in post-war Japan's evolving youth culture, amid economic boom and Western imports, shaped Takahashi's early interest in fashion as a medium for rebellion and creativity. This foundation prompted his move to Tokyo for formal studies at Bunka Fashion College.[7] Fashion education Jun Takahashi, motivated by his roots in the rural town of Kiryū in Gunma Prefecture, moved to Tokyo at age 18 to pursue formal fashion training. He enrolled in the prestigious Bunka Fashion College in 1987, entering its fashion design program, which emphasized core principles such as pattern-making, textile manipulation, and garment construction.[12][13][14]During his studies, Takahashi developed his aesthetic through student collections that fused punk influences—such as deconstructed silhouettes and rebellious motifs—with elements of Japanese street style, including layered casualwear and urban graphics. These early works reflected his immersion in Tokyo's vibrant youth culture, often experimenting with graphic T-shirts and hybrid pieces that challenged conventional fashion norms. He graduated in 1991, having honed a distinctive approach that blended technical proficiency with subversive expression.[15][16][17]While at Bunka, Takahashi gained exposure to the city's emerging avant-garde scene, including the innovative designs of Rei Kawakubo at Comme des Garçons. This period also marked the formation of key creative partnerships; he met fellow student Nigo (later founder of A Bathing Ape) at the college, forging a collaboration that would influence Tokyo's streetwear landscape.[18][19][20][21] Fashion career Launch of Undercover Jun Takahashi launched his flagship brand Undercover in 1993 while still a student at Bunka Fashion College, marking the beginning of his independent design career with a focus on subversive streetwear. The inaugural pieces were simple punk-inspired T-shirts and apparel, initially sold through select independent stores in Tokyo, where they quickly gained traction among the city's youth subcultures. This grassroots approach allowed Takahashi to test his vision without the constraints of traditional fashion infrastructure, drawing directly from his education in pattern-making and construction techniques honed at Bunka.[22][19]In the same year, Takahashi co-founded the Nowhere retail space with fellow designer Nigo in Tokyo's Ura-Harajuku district, creating a pivotal hub for emerging Japanese streetwear talent. Nowhere served as an early showcase for Undercover's output, stocking limited-edition items alongside pieces from other local creators, and it became synonymous with the anti-commercial ethos of Harajuku's underground scene. By 1995, the venture expanded with the opening of a dedicated Nowhere store in Harajuku, further solidifying its role as a cultural epicenter that blended retail with artistic experimentation.[23][22]Takahashi's early collections, debuting formally in 1994 with a women's runway show in Tokyo, emphasized deconstructed silhouettes that challenged conventional garment forms, such as artfully distorted MA-1 bomber jackets paired with elongated skirts. These designs incorporated graffiti-like graphic motifs, raw patching, and bold prints evoking anti-establishment rebellion, heavily influenced by 1970s punk icons like the Sex Pistols and the energetic, eclectic aesthetics of 1990s rave culture. The result was a wardrobe that fused everyday staples with provocative, youth-driven narratives, positioning Undercover as a voice for nonconformity in Japan's fashion landscape.[19][22]The mid-1990s brought significant financial hurdles for Undercover, as Takahashi self-funded operations through freelance design gigs and maintained small-scale production in local Tokyo workshops to keep costs low. These constraints limited output to modest runs but fostered a DIY spirit that aligned with the brand's punk roots, allowing Takahashi to retain creative control amid Japan's economic stagnation at the time. Despite the challenges, this period laid the groundwork for Undercover's enduring cult status, prioritizing artistic integrity over rapid commercialization.[23][19] International breakthrough Undercover's international breakthrough began with its debut at Paris Fashion Week in October 2002, presenting the Spring/Summer 2003 collection titled "Scab." This show, held at the Union Centrale des Arts Décoratifs, featured hybrid street-high fashion elements, including layered fabric strips creating scab-like illusions on garments, blended with theatrical staging that merged punk aesthetics with avant-garde couture. Encouraged by Rei Kawakubo of Comme des Garçons, who had supported Takahashi since purchasing an early piece in 1994, the presentation marked Undercover's shift from Tokyo's underground scene to global visibility, drawing attention for its raw, sociopolitical edge.[23][10]By the late 2000s, Undercover solidified its presence with the opening of a flagship store in Tokyo's Aoyama district in 2009, designed as an immersive space reflecting Takahashi's conceptual style, while international expansion occurred through outposts and distribution networks in London and New York during the mid-2000s. These developments facilitated broader access for global buyers, transitioning the brand from niche Japanese streetwear to a fixture in high-end international retail.[24][10]The brand's move to mainstream recognition accelerated in the 2000s, with features in Vogue highlighting collections like Fall 2003 and Spring 2005 for their interpretive depth and innovative layering against dramatic backdrops. Collaborations with international buyers, often via Comme des Garçons channels, elevated Undercover's profile, positioning it as an influential force in blending subcultural roots with luxury appeal.[25][26][23]Scaling production for global markets presented challenges, as Undercover prioritized artisanal quality through Japanese factories and fabric sources, which were declining in number and capacity. High import costs from Japan limited affordability abroad, while maintaining the brand's handcrafted details required careful sourcing of specialized textiles for overseas shows, balancing expansion with creative integrity.[23][10] Signature themes and collections Jun Takahashi's design philosophy for Undercover is characterized by "elegant punk," a signature motif that fuses the raw energy of punk rebellion with sophisticated tailoring and cultural narrative.[19] This approach blends gothic romance—evident in haunting imagery and cryptic embroidery on flowing gowns—with sportswear elements like technical fabrics and functional silhouettes from the Gyakusou sub-line, while incorporating surrealism through cinematic symbols and deconstructive forms that evoke dreamlike disruption.[27] Over the 2010s and into the 2020s, these themes evolved from Takahashi's early raw streetwear roots, rooted in Harajuku's underground scene with graphic T-shirts and distressed denim, toward refined couture expressions, such as sculptural leather jackets and jacquard florals presented on Paris runways.[27][28]Notable collections from this period highlight this progression. The Fall/Winter 2013 ready-to-wear line drew inspiration from fairy tales, channeling an "Alice in Wonderland" whimsy fused with Folies Bergère cabaret drama through oversized silhouettes, playful prints, and theatrical headpieces that merged punk edge with romantic fantasy.[29] By the 2020s, Takahashi's work intensified its cinematic ties; the Autumn/Winter 2024 collection, inspired by Wim Wenders' film Perfect Days, explored everyday introspection with layered workwear, fringe-trimmed cardigans, and optical-illusion ensembles, earning the womenswear Dress of the Year accolade from the Fashion Museum Bath for its profound simplicity.[30] The Spring/Summer 2025 presentation amplified "everyday drama" via zippers and fasteners that sculpted volume on boxy shirts, bondage-strapped dresses, and fin-frilled skirts, transforming utilitarian pieces into subversive statements.[31]Marking Undercover's 35th anniversary, the Fall 2025 ready-to-wear collection paid homage to a remake aesthetic, referencing Takahashi's earlier Suspiria-inspired work while reimagining the Fall 2004 line's plush toy motifs—originally envisioning Patti Smith in stuffed-animal garb—with updated puffer jackets, beaded suits, and quilted blazers that emphasized nostalgic, wear-and-tear beauty.[32] This season underscored the brand's maturation, prioritizing "auramaxxing" garments that gain aura through lived experience over fleeting trends.[32]In response to sustainability trends, Undercover integrated recycled materials into post-2020 lines, including upcycled fabrics in select womenswear and collaborations like the 2025 GU capsule featuring recycled polyester in T-shirts and outerwear, aligning punk ethos with ethical production.[33][34] Takahashi's Paris debut in 2002 served as a pivotal platform for such thematic experimentation, enabling global exposure of these evolving motifs.[27] Commercial collaborations Jun Takahashi's commercial collaborations have significantly broadened the accessibility and cultural footprint of his Undercover brand by partnering with global sportswear and fast-fashion giants, integrating the label's subversive punk aesthetics into mainstream apparel lines.[35]One of the most enduring partnerships began in 2010 when Takahashi collaborated with Nike to launch the Gyakusou line, a technical running collection that fused high-performance sportswear with Undercover's punk-inspired twists, such as asymmetrical designs and graphic overlays on items like jackets and sneakers.[36] This initiative stemmed from Takahashi's personal passion for running, transforming functional gear into fashion-forward pieces that appealed to both athletes and style enthusiasts.[37] The Gyakusou collaboration has continued intermittently through the 2020s, with releases like the 2025 Nike Gyakusou Pegasus Turbo emphasizing innovative cushioning and breathable materials while retaining Takahashi's edgy motifs.[38]In 2011, Takahashi extended Undercover's reach through a diffusion line with Uniqlo, known as UU (Uniqlo Undercover), which debuted with a focus on affordable, family-oriented basics that democratized the brand's motifs via everyday staples like hoodies, tees, and outerwear.[39] This partnership, announced in July 2011 and launching collections from spring 2012, allowed Undercover's conceptual designs—such as subtle punk graphics and versatile silhouettes—to infiltrate mass-market wardrobes without compromising on quality or price points starting around $20.[40] The line evolved over seasons, incorporating seasonal themes like fall/winter knits and emphasizing unisex appeal to make high-fashion elements accessible to a wider audience.[41]Building on this fast-fashion synergy, Takahashi partnered with GU—Uniqlo's sister brand—in 2024 for the "UG" menswear collection tailored to Fall/Winter 2025, featuring genderless pieces like reversible jackets and coveralls that blend minimalism with unexpected details for urban versatility.[42] Priced from $20 to $100, the line explores the "SILENT/NOISE = Comfortable Noise" concept, adding playful "noise" to silent basics through prints and textures.[43] In an October 10, 2025, interview, Takahashi discussed the collaboration's future directions, highlighting its aim to infuse everyday wear with stimulation and edge while prioritizing comfort and sustainability via recycled materials.[44]In July 2024, Undercover released a Twin Peaks-inspired capsule collection as part of the Fall/Winter 2024 menswear line, drawing from David Lynch's motifs and incorporating surreal elements like all-over prints of series scenes on hoodies, tees, and accessories to evoke the show's mysterious narrative.[45] Officially authorized, this limited-edition drop paid homage to the cult series through distorted graphics and symbolic references, bridging fashion with cinematic pop culture.[46] The collection, available at select retailers like Nordstrom, underscored Takahashi's ability to translate Lynch's enigmatic visuals into wearable, narrative-driven garments.[47] Artistic and multimedia work Visual art exhibitions In the 2010s, Jun Takahashi began exploring visual art as a parallel practice to his fashion design, starting self-taught oil paintings in 2013 to delve into personal introspection beyond commercial constraints.[48] This shift marked a transition toward mixed media works, incorporating paintings, bronze sculptures, and repurposed fashion artifacts to examine themes of identity, innocence, and decay, often extending motifs from his Undercover collections into fine art contexts.[49][50]Takahashi's first solo exhibition, "They See More Than You Can See," opened in 2023 at Gallery Target in Tokyo, showcasing around 30 oil paintings alongside bronze sculptures of fantastical "Grace creatures."[49] The works featured surreal portraits of inspirational figures like David Bowie, with eyes deliberately omitted to evoke mystery and fragmented identity, set against dreamlike landscapes blending cartoonish elements and motifs from his fashion designs.[49]In October 2024, Takahashi presented "Peaceable Kingdom," his debut solo show outside Japan, at WKM Gallery in Hong Kong, running from October 25 to December 21.[50] This exhibition included new oil paintings of distorted portraits and abstract figures amid ethereal, cloud-dotted landscapes punctuated by apples, symbolizing the tension between worldly chaos and a yearning for harmony, while incorporating three canvases directly from his S/S 2025 Undercover men's collection to bridge art and fashion.[50][51]Takahashi continued this trajectory with his third solo exhibition, "My Children Born on the Other Planet," scheduled to be held from November 22 to December 10, 2025, at 104GALERIE in Tokyo's Nakameguro district.[52] Featuring approximately 15 new oil paintings, the show drew from characters in past Undercover collections to explore beauty intertwined with distortion, innocence laced with eeriness, and the interplay of chaos and harmony in personal narratives.[52] Music and film-inspired projects Jun Takahashi's engagement with music began in the early 1990s through his co-founding of the Harajuku store Nowhere with Nigo, a hub for Tokyo's punk and street culture scene where he occasionally performed DJ sets, blending punk, alternative rock, and experimental sounds that influenced his early design aesthetic.[53] His affinity for musicians like Thom Yorke and filmmakers such as David Lynch has permeated his multimedia work, often manifesting in distorted, atmospheric elements that echo Lynch's surrealism and Yorke's introspective electronica.[23]A pivotal crossover came in 2021 when Takahashi collaborated with Thom Yorke on the remix "Creep (Very 2021 Rmx)," creating original artwork and an animated video featuring punk-infused distorted visuals to accompany the track, which served as the soundtrack for his Undercover Fall/Winter 2021 runway show titled "Creep Very."[54] The video's eerie, fragmented animation—depicting shadowy figures and abstract urban decay—reinterpreted Radiohead's 1993 hit through a lens of contemporary alienation, marking Takahashi's direct foray into music video production as an extension of his fashion narrative.[55]Takahashi's film homages frequently incorporate custom runway elements to evoke cinematic worlds, as seen in his Autumn/Winter 2019 collection inspired by Luca Guadagnino's remake of Suspiria, where haunting prints from the film's dance academy scenes adorned garments, paired with a dimly lit set design mimicking the movie's oppressive atmosphere.[56] This approach continued in his Autumn/Winter 2024 womenswear, drawing from Wim Wenders' Perfect Days to celebrate mundane routines through elevated everyday attire, with a sparse, introspective stage setup that mirrored the film's quiet Tokyo vignettes.[57] In 2024, Takahashi's menswear collection expanded his Twin Peaks obsession into a licensed project titled "Wonderful and Strange," embedding show stills, motifs like the Double R Diner, and Angelo Badalamenti's iconic score as the live soundtrack during the Paris presentation, creating an immersive auditory homage to David Lynch's series.[46] This multimedia integration extended to promotional materials, including lookbooks with filtered episode imagery and subtle sound elements drawn from the series' eerie ambiance, further blurring the lines between fashion, film, and music in Takahashi's oeuvre.[58] Personal life Family and relationships Jun Takahashi married the model and stylist Riko Morishita in the early 2000s after meeting through their shared connections in Tokyo's fashion scene, where Morishita contributed to Undercover's children's line and joint Uniqlo collaborations.[12]The couple has two children: a son, Rin, born around 2002, and a daughter, Lala, also born in 2002.[12][59]Lala has occasionally featured in family photographs shared publicly and has begun a modeling career, though the family largely keeps personal details private to maintain a low profile.[60]Takahashi and his family live in a quiet Tokyo neighborhood, enabling him to prioritize family time amid his career; he leaves his atelier daily by 7 p.m. for dinner with his wife and children and takes weekends off for parenting.[2] In rare interviews, he has credited his family with providing essential balance and stability that supports his professional life.[2] Influences and philosophy Jun Takahashi's design philosophy is rooted in a spirit of rebellion, encapsulated by Undercover's motto "We make noise, not clothes," which emphasizes creating garments that disrupt conventions and convey deeper meaning rather than mere aesthetics.[19] This clandestine ethos, reflected in the brand's name evoking secrecy and mystery, seeks to merge high art with accessible everyday wear, challenging societal norms by blending streetwear's raw energy with couture's sophistication.[61] Takahashi views fashion as a medium for "elegant punk," where deconstructed elements and subversive motifs provoke thought, drawing from a contrarian attitude to break stereotypes and infuse clothing with cultural commentary.[19][62]His influences span punk culture and broader artistic realms, with Vivienne Westwood and Malcolm McLaren's Seditionaries line serving as a pivotal inspiration during his adolescence, shaping his vision of punk as an elegant, norm-defying force.[63][10] Music from icons like Patti Smith, Joy Division, David Bowie, and Nirvana has profoundly impacted his work, informing collections that capture emotional intensity and subcultural rebellion.[63] In the visual arts, Takahashi draws from Cindy Sherman's photography, admiring its blend of madness and humor, which he incorporated into collaborations like the SS20 collection featuring her Untitled Film Stills.[63]Rei Kawakubo of Comme des Garçons also influenced his approach, encouraging unbridled creative expression that prioritizes intuition over commercial trends.[19]In a 2025 interview marking Undercover's 35th anniversary, Takahashi reflected on the brand's evolution, noting that his core process remains unchanged—centering on personal interests—but has matured into a more layered integration of ideas, balancing calm with excitement to create "comfortable noise" in everyday attire.[61][44] This shift toward pragmatic expression allows for sustainable creative continuity amid industry pressures, as he emphasizes designs that endure personal and cultural tests, such as a jacket surviving an earthquake.[44]Takahashi advocates for fashion's future to prioritize emotional storytelling over fleeting trends, particularly in the post-pandemic era, where he sees the medium as a "safe place" for creators to express complex, locked-away feelings despite global challenges.[61][5] He believes authenticity lies in evoking the inexplicable "soul" of human experience, as seen in film-inspired pieces like those drawing from The Shining, fostering connections that transcend commercial imitation.[61][64] Recognition Fashion awards Jun Takahashi's early career received significant validation through the Mainichi Fashion Grand Prix, where he was awarded the New Face Prize in 1997 for his innovative approach to streetwear, highlighting Undercover's fresh fusion of punk aesthetics and everyday functionality.[65] This accolade, sponsored by the Mainichi Shimbun, marked Takahashi as a promising talent emerging from Tokyo's Bunka Fashion College and provided crucial sponsorship, including from Shiseido, enabling further development of his label.[65]Building on this momentum, Takahashi earned the Mainichi Fashion Grand Prize in 2001, recognizing Undercover's debut collections for their bold impact on Japanese fashion, blending subversive motifs with high craftsmanship.[66] The award underscored his ability to elevate street influences to international relevance, particularly following his Paris Fashion Week debut in 2002, which amplified global attention.[66] Over a decade later, in 2013, he received the Grand Prize again, honoring his sustained creativity and evolution of Undercover into a enduring force in contemporary design.[66] This repeat recognition affirmed Takahashi's lasting influence within Japan's fashion establishment.On the international stage, Takahashi's work garnered the Dress of the Year award from the Fashion Museum Bath in 2024, shared with Gucci, for Undercover's Autumn/Winter 2024 "Perfect Days" collection—a womenswear ensemble inspired by Wim Wenders' film, featuring an optical-illusion all-in-one piece that captured the year's expressive, real-world spirit.[67] Selected by Tim Blanks of The Business of Fashion, the outfit exemplified Takahashi's poetic take on daily life, solidifying his cross-cultural prestige.[30]Throughout the 2000s and into the 2010s, Takahashi accumulated additional honors from the Fashion Editors Club of Japan, including the Designer of the Year award at the 54th ceremony in 2012, celebrating his contributions to elevating Japanese fashion's global profile through Undercover's innovative narratives. These accolades collectively trace Takahashi's trajectory from underground innovator to a pivotal figure bridging streetwear, avant-garde, and mainstream acclaim. Cultural impact Jun Takahashi played a pioneering role in elevating Japanese streetwear to luxury status, transforming subcultural aesthetics into high-end fashion through his label Undercover, founded in 1990. By blending punk influences with sophisticated silhouettes, Takahashi helped legitimize streetwear on global runways, debuting in Paris in 2002 under the mentorship of Rei Kawakubo, which opened doors to elite boutiques in North America and Europe.[10] His work from the Ura-Harajuku scene, including co-founding the Nowhere store in 1993, laid foundational groundwork for streetwear's ascent, influencing brands like Supreme through multiple collaborations such as the SS15, FW16, and SS18 collections that merged punk rebellion with skate culture.[10][68] Similarly, his 2019 partnership with Off-White reworked iconic motifs like quotation marks and arrows, underscoring Undercover's role in shaping hybrid street-luxury dialogues.[69]Takahashi's impact extends to hybrid genres, where he masterfully fuses sportswear with couture, as seen in his NikeLab Gyakusou line launched in 2010, which elevated running gear into premium, narrative-driven pieces. This approach has inspired a generation of designers across Asia and Europe, from Tokyo's avant-garde talents to European labels experimenting with deconstructed athleisure, by demonstrating how subcultural elements can coexist with haute couture techniques.[10] His collaborations with artists like Futura and KAWS further amplified this influence, embedding street art into luxury contexts and encouraging innovative cross-pollination in the industry.[10]In 2025 reflections marking 35 years of Undercover, W Magazine highlighted Takahashi's enduring legacy of mystery and evolution within pop culture, noting how his designs continue to draw from music, film, and art—such as The Shining-inspired collections—to evoke complex emotions and maintain creative authenticity. Takahashi himself emphasized the brand's secretive ethos, stating, "For the past 35 years, I have continued to create with almost no change, always centering on the things that interest me," underscoring his commitment to soulful innovation amid fashion's accelerating cycles.[61] This evolution from punk roots to global icon status has positioned Undercover as a benchmark for blending streetwear with high fashion, influencing mainstream trends while preserving an enigmatic allure.[61]Takahashi has contributed to diversity in fashion by promoting subcultural narratives since the 1990s, drawing from Tokyo's Harajukuyouth culture to create collections that celebrate multifaceted identities, such as the fall 2017 show featuring 10 distinct "tribes" representing diverse societal roles from aristocracy to rebels.[2] His designs often incorporate gender-fluid elements, blurring traditional boundaries through theatrical, unisex silhouettes inspired by British punk and Japanese street styles, fostering inclusivity in an industry historically dominated by rigid norms.[2] These efforts have amplified underrepresented voices, using fashion as a medium to explore subcultural stories and challenge conventions, as evidenced by his early slogan T-shirts and hoodies that evolved into elaborate runway spectacles.[2]


--- [We Make Noise Not Clothes: A Look at Undercover | Grailed] ---
We Make Noise Not Clothes: A Look at Undercover - Words Asaf Rotman - Date October 20, 2016 It’s easy to write off Undercover as simply “punk-inspired” clothing. Designer Jun Takahashi makes his references, whether they are the Sex Pistols or Kurt Cobain, quite apparent. Simply taking this approach, however, would be both a disservice and vast under characterization of what his groundbreaking brand has accomplished in the past 25 years. To truly understand Undercover, you have to understand the designer himself. Takahashi was born in 1969 in the small village of Kiryu. His youth was a mash of corny state-sponsored cartoons, international music magazines, and digging through his mom’s clothing and accessories, occasionally playing dress-up. These mundane children’s pastimes seem innocent, however they are crucial to understanding Undercover. With Takahashi, action figures and women’s costume jewelry are as essential as Nevermind. Between 1970-1990, the midst of Takahashi’s youth, Japan underwent a period of drastic change. While the former feudal nation prided itself on being insular, following the war and seven years of American occupation, western influence began to creep in. By the mid-‘80s, metal and punk rock were as prevalent in Tokyo as they were in New York and London. The combination of globalization and dispensable income paved the way for a new era of Japanese influence. With the rise of Comme des Garçons—highlighted by Rei Kawakubo’s inaugural Paris runway show in 1981—suddenly the fashion set had its gaze firmly fixed on Tokyo. By the end of the decade, Kawakubo, Yohji Yamamoto and Issey Miyake were cornerstones of the Paris fashion calendar. In 1988, Takahashi enrolled at the prestigious Bunka college of Fashion. Apart from studying design, Takahashi was front man of the Tokyo Sex Pistols, an homage to the British renegades that had encapsulated his world only a few years prior. While in school, Takahashi was unsure of what to do, until he was dragged to a Comme des Garçons show. What Kawakubo could do with clothing—in terms of quality, drape, and art—was monumental. Shortly after the show, in either 1989 or 1990 (he claims he can’t remember), with the help of classmate Hinori Ichinose, Takahashi founded Undercover. Initially, Undercover mostly consisted of tees and vintage pieces that Takahashi would customize himself with studs and patches. Success came rather quickly, and notable shops such as Billy in Harajuku and Milk Boy began stocking the brand. Alongside his label, Takahashi began to establish some personal notoriety through a column published in Takarajima magazine with friend and frequent collaborator NIGO. Apart from Hiroshi Fujiwara himself—well established as the godfather of Japanese streetwear—Nigo and Takahashi became two of the most prominent faces of the nascent Ura-Harajuku scene. They capitalized on this influence to establish their first storefront, the now infamous NOWHERE. The shop, split down the middle by a wire fence, carried Undercover on one side, and a curated selection of items by NIGO on the other. Although Rei Kawakubo provided his initial push into fashion, it was Martin Margiela that ultimately had Takahashi hooked. During a trip to high-end department store Seed in Shibuya, Takahashi saw Margiela’s designs for the first time. A white T-shirt on a mannequin, with dropped shoulders, extended sleeves and an unfinished hem stopped Takahashi in his tracks. After seeing Margiela’s work up close, Takahashi finally felt his vision vindicated. While the street-savvy Urahara set provided a steady flow of business, the burgeoning designer felt constrained and wanted to experiment with clothing in the same way his idols had. Inspired by famous producer and musician Yuyu Uchida—notorious for being just as likely to promote a concert as he was to play a full set—Takahashi felt the need to step out on stage and decided to present his first full-fledged collection. On April 18, 1994, at The Garage at Daikayama, Undercover held its first runway show as part of Tokyo Fashion Week. The untitled Fall/Winter 1995 women’s collection established aesthetic principles that Takahashi continues to re-visit to this day. By playing with proportion and incorporating key punk elements such as tartan and mohair—think Cobain’s cardigans—Takahashi transformed items traditionally associated with street style into high-fashion must-haves. A shearling jacket was cropped and shrunk into a covetable perfecto. A flannel was elongated and draped as a flattering dress. A toggle coat sans sleeve and hood became a perfect layering piece. While currently the trend-de-jour, Undercover began elevating street style more than two decades ago. Immediately, Takahashi was a critical success. More than a wünderkind, he became the designer to watch, with only his contemporary, Kawakubo protege Junya Wantanbe, garnering more attention. What made Takahashi so unique is undoubtedly how his clothes fall so firmly into both categories of “high” and “street” fashion without being exclusively one or the other. Undercover was just as important in Harajuku as it was on the Tokyo, and eventually Paris, runways. The designer has always strived to take as much pride in his graphic tees as he has in women’s couture runway pieces, a mindset so ahead of the curve that his peers are only beginning to catch up. While the show format was successful, Takahashi has been prone to step away from the runway and present wildly imaginative presentations. For Spring/Summer 1996, for instance, Takahashi sought out the help of celebrated special effects artist Screaming Mad George, most widely known for his work on the Nightmare on Elm Street series. Aptly titled “Under The Cover,” the collection featured grotesque ghouls and Freddy Kruger-esque monsters wearing fitted topcoats and military jackets with a repeating digital skull motif. While other designers would feel satisfied with a collection of photos, Takahashi did not. He created an art book accompanied with a “blister pack” consisting of a behind-the-scenes VHS tape, T-shirt and stage blood in order to document his collaborative effort. The designer took a similar approach with “Underman” in 2011, where he once again decided to forgo a show and develop an intricate presentation. Focused around the fictional anti-hero "Underman" and the fantasy world he inhabited, the collection was an illustration of how not only the titular character, but how everyday people would hypothetically dress within this alternate universe. Although inherently wearable, the collection was conceptually rich. Apart from a Daft Punk-like space helmet, the entirety of Underman’s costume was available for purchase. In addition to the hero’s costume, Takahashi created a comic strip, hi-res green screen action photos and a series of action figures in collaboration with Medicom. While the clothes may have been tame, the many worlds of Undercover only continued to expand. The ability to seamlessly transition from fashion to conceptual art and toys is key to the success of Undercover. Takahashi refers to his mind as a filing cabinet, which he continues to store folders in. While the cabinets continue to grow, older folders never disappear. During his spare time, the designer peruses folders as disparate as action figures and ’60s German alternative rock. While they aren’t necessarily connected, they are by no means mutually exclusive. Thus is the magic of Undercover. Takahashi’s work is just as relevant to anime fiends as it is to Joy Division die-hards. Collections following “Under The Cover” introduced recurring staples such as barbed wire, 3D cutting and juxtaposing gothic and decadent influences. For the landmark Fall/Winter 1998 “Exchange” collection, Takahashi incorporated zippers throughout garments that allowed the wearer to alternate pieces of clothing from one piece to another, cementing his status in Tokyo as an arbiter of all things punk, dystopian and beautiful. While men’s pieces were produced intermittently, Undercoverism, a dedicated menswear division, was introduced in 2001. While stateside both men’s and women’s ready-to-wear are sold under the Undercover moniker, in Japan Undercover refers exclusively to women’s ready-to-wear. The first official menswear offering was presented alongside womenswear as part of Spring/Summer 2001’s “Melting Pot” collection. While the women's pieces focused on pattern mashing, the men’s were more technical in nature. Inspired by Star Wars, each piece was cutting edge with a subtle ’80s sci-fi flair. Although Takahashi has admitted that he prefers womenswear—menswear feels constraining as he inadvertently designs for himself—outside of Asia he is predominantly thought of as a menswear designer. Following the introduction of menswear, Takahashi continued to show and present in Tokyo. By 2003, Takahashi’s former role model, Rei Kawakubo, was his new champion, telling everyone—including influential fashion critic Suzy Menkes—about Undercover. With mounting press and international buzz, the label made the move to Paris. The now legendary Spring/Summer 2003 “Scab” collection was not only a highlight of Paris Fashion Week, but firmly placed Undercover on the radar of international buyers and press. While Takahashi had already attained cult-status in Japan, he was still relatively unknown abroad. After “Scab,” there wasn’t a single fashion editor in Paris who didn’t know his name. The collection was the first to present Takahashi’s now iconic—and highly imitated—slash and burn style. Presented at the Union Central des Arts Decoritifs, the show revisited the idea of “ethnic garb.” Takahashi attempted to add decorative tribal elements to basic pieces through layering nearly endless strips of fabric into multiple patchwork layers. While the clothing began intact, Takahashi, after creating the silhouette, would painstakingly rip, destroy and rework every garment by hand. The frayed hems and hanging strings made each piece feel both incomplete and one-of-a-kind. Takahashi showed slip dresses with trailing patterned tassels, reworked patchwork jackets, and patchwork denim that have become sacred to many a Grailed user. Meant to embody the punk spirit, the show’s finale featured a series of models in neon-colored Burkas in order to evoke clothing as spiritual as it was renegade. Following “Scab,” Takahashi moved his runway show to Paris permanently, apart for a brief two-year absence following the Japanese earthquake in 2011. Memorable collections include Fall/Winter 2004’s “But Beautiful,” which featured hand-stitched items created through collage and an accompanying poem by the brilliant Patti Smith, Fall/Winter 2005’s “Arts & Crafts,” in which Takahashi made nearly every piece on the runway entirely out of felt and Spring/Summer 2006’s “T” where progressive German rock from the ’60s and ’70s took center stage. Famously, Takahashi imagined five hypothetical bands and designed clothing based on their music—most notably “Sssss” and “The Amazing Tale Of Zamiang.” Each season Takahashi returned to the Parisian catwalk, he was keenly aware of critical reception and subsequent collections were a response to comments both negative and positive. This process has not only curried favor with critics—Menkes believes he has never had a bad season—but helped Takahashi evolve as a designer. Moving away from individual experiments with felt towards much more complex undertakings such as Fall/Winter 2013’s mind-blowing “Anatomicouture” in which he created a white dress entirely from men’s button-up shirt collars. While the brand achieved new levels of success following its Parisian debut and began a strong retail push in Europe, Undercover was still primarily limited to Japanese clients. In 2010, however, Takahashi was invited as the guest presenter at Pitti Uomo Imagine 76. Like many designers before and after—Raf Simons, Hiroki Nakamura and Craig Green to name a few—the Florence trade show presented a chance to focus solely on menswear. Takahashi’s first men’s-only runway show, “Less But Better,” was a reference to industrial designer Dieter Rams, whose famous mantra informed the simple and modern designs. Takahashi presented a series of reflective rain jackets, beige coats, gray slacks and simple graphic tees representing perhaps his most polished collection to date. Apart from the minimal clothing, Takahashi’s presence confirmed what many insiders already knew to be true: More than simply a women’s runway savant, he was a masterful menswear force to be reckoned with. It’s no surprise then that following the presentation international conglomerates began to take notice. During the holiday 2010 season, Undercover began its on-going partnership with Nike, GYAKUSOU. Roughly translating to “running in reverse,” the activewear collection is inspired by Takahashi's—himself a runner—tendency to run against traffic on on running trails and designed for runners to question the path they have chosen while simultaneously providing the functional and technical requirements they need to maintain pace. Unlike other collaborations, which are often used to inject much-needed funds and reach a new audience, Takahashi created the clothing with his own technical and aesthetic needs in mind. Subsequent Undercover collaborations—from Hello Kitty to Supreme and Uniqlo—all had one thing in common: an attempt to create something the brand was unable to do on its own. In the recently released Undercover by Rizzoli—the most in-depth look at the designers oeuvre to date—Takahashi admits that the business is not exactly giant. With tariffs and operations costs, Undercover is between forty to fifty percent more expensive stateside than in Japan. As the business has continued to evolve in the past five years, collaborations have continued to be both passion projects and act as a crutch during a sluggish period for the luxury market following the 2008 financial crisis. The first Supreme collaboration released in Spring/Summer 2015 was a “street” collection at a more attainable price point than mainline Undercover. The leather jackets and graphic tees emblazoned with the repurposed “ANARCHY IS THE KEY” graphic harkened back to NOWHERE days. Considering the significant mark-up oversees and the brand’s humble street beginnings, working with Supreme allowed Undercover to travel, if briefly, back to Urahara. Similarly with the recurring Uniqlo “UU” children’s collection, Takahashi was able to realize his dream of designing clothes for his daughter, while simultaneously appealing to a mass audience and spreading the Undercover message. There is a reason that most Undercover collaborations are not typically your standard, one-off affair. After working with Takahashi, brands realize that more than just a designer, he intimately understands the world he has created, one that goes well beyond clothing. His own artistic endeavors prove as much. Consider “Grace,” a project where Takahashi replaced a teddy bear’s eyes with vintage motorcycle lights to create a dystopian monster. More than a sculpture, Grace become a recurring character in the Undercover universe, with an accompanying children’s cartoon and a series of art images highlighting the creature’s evolution. Grace’s greatest ally is the mysterious GILA organization—named after the infamous brass knuckle-bearing GILAPPLES—whose intentions are shrouded in mystery. Twenty-five years later, apart from international fame, cult-status, the JOHN and SUEundercover diffusion lines and millions of dollars, Undercover has not changed all that much. Yes, it is, and always will be, punk-inspired clothing, but Takahashi’s gift is to make you wonder what the word really means. Is punk a style of music? A subculture? Or is it an attitude, a worldview to question what came before? We Make Noise Not Clothes. That’s the Undercover motto. Takahashi and his brand have been making noise since the early ’90s and they are only getting louder.
