=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Myrtle Eagan | Severance Wiki - Fandom]
Myrtle Eagan is the third CEO of Lumon Industries and the daughter of Kier Eagan. Myrtle is the daughter of Kier and Imogene Eagan, and grew up with her brother, Ambrose.
URL: https://severance-tv.fandom.com/wiki/Myrtle_Eagan

['Severance' Eagan Family Tree and Character Guide, Explained]
Feb 13, 2025 · Severance fans glimpse the first time they met in another painting, titled The Courtship of Kier and Imogene. They had two known children together, Ambrose and Myrtle.
URL: https://www.esquire.com/uk/culture/a63783125/severance-kier-eagan-family-tree-explained/

[‘Severance’'s Eagan Family Tree, Explained: A Character Guide]
Mar 26, 2025 · Myrtle Eagan, Kier and Imogene’s daughter, was Lumon’s third CEO and the company’s first female CEO, operating from 1941 to 1959. According to Irving, she “told her father at age 7 she was ...
URL: https://www.elle.com/culture/movies-tv/a63677908/severance-eagan-family-tree-explained/

[Myrtle Eagan - Severance Wiki]
Feb 24, 2025 · Myrtle Eagan was the 3rd CEO of Lumon Industries from 1941 to 1959, and is a descendant of its founder, Kier Eagan. She was the first woman to occupy this position in the company.
URL: https://www.severance.wiki/myrtle_eagan

[Severance's Eagan Family Tree Explained - Screen Rant]
Jan 14, 2025 · Myrtle Eagan was the second-born child of Kier Eagan, and while she was beaten to the role of CEO by her brother Ambrose, she’s described as an extremely ambitious woman who always desired to lead.
URL: https://screenrant.com/severance-eagan-family-tree-explained/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Myrtle Eagan | Severance Wiki - Fandom] ---
Myrtle Eagan is the third CEO of Lumon Industries and the daughter of Kier Eagan. History[] Myrtle is the daughter of Kier and Imogene Eagan, and grew up with her brother, Ambrose. They both greatly admired their father and Ambrose was raised to be the next CEO of the company their father founded, Lumon Industries. Despite Ambrose being the favored successor, Myrtle always knew she was meant to run the company and told her father when she was seven that she'd be the first female CEO of Lumon. Personality[] Physical Description[] Myrtle's wax statue is an older white woman with blue eyes, Old Hollywood-styled gray hair, and white and gold pearl jewelry. She wears an all-red outfit with a matching beret — an interesting contrast to the other CEOs' statues, which wear muted cool colors in keeping with Lumon's theme. Relationships[] Quotes[] - "I think that to be an Eagan, either a true Eagan or anyone working in this Lumon family, what you are is the keeper of an ethos, a compact of values that we have long held as precious, and which I do believe will one day save this world. And that ethos goes all the way back through my blood to where we all started, with Kier. When I was a girl, my father would make me whisper… Vision. Verve. Wit. Cheer. Humility. Benevolence. Nimbleness. Probity. Wiles." Notes and Trivia[] - Myrtle was the first female CEO of Lumon Industries. - The Myrtle Eagan School For Girls founded in 1952, attended by Harmony Cobel, was named after her. - She was also the namesake for the Myrtle Eagan Credit Union.


--- ['Severance' Eagan Family Tree and Character Guide, Explained] ---
If the joke of Severance is that modern corporations act like cults, then it makes sense that Lumon Industries is led by what is essentially a family cult: The Eagans. The clan at the center of the Apple TV+ drama runs the mysterious business that requires many of itt employees to surgically sever their minds from their personal lives. Not only that, but the family also owns the town in which Lumon's founding office is located (Kier, PE)—and wields enough power to enrapture followers with their bizarre scripture. No one knows exactly what the Eagans are really up to at Lumon Industries. Severance trickles out information episode by episode inch viewers closer to an answer. All we can say for now is that it likely won't amount to much good. I just don’t trust that goat room! In the name of searching for more clues, let’s trace back the Eagan family tree to find out just how far back the mystery goes. Kier Eagan Kier is the founder of Lumon Industries and arguably the most important character in Severance’s backstory. He served as the company’s first CEO for seventy-five years, from 1865 to 1939. He left many writings behind, written in a blend of biblical and corporate tones. His teachings—and very likely the creation of the Eagans as a new-age family cult—now make up most of the chapters of the employee Compliance Handbook. What to Read Next In some of the Handbook’s passages, Kier describes scenes from his life, including suffering from tuberculosis as a child and noticing a “close biological relationship” between his mother and father. His bout with tuberculosis is also depicted in The Youthful Convalescence of Kier—which is a painting loved by Irving (John Turturro). Kier eventually married a woman named Imogene, whom he met while working at an ether factory. Severance fans glimpse the first time they met in another painting, titled The Courtship of Kier and Imogene. They had two known children together, Ambrose and Myrtle. Sometime in his adulthood, Kier became the leader he’s known as today. He began to spread his beliefs, including his plans to “tame” the four tempers of the human soul: "Woe, Frolic, Malice, and Dread." Dieter Eagan Dieter was Kier’s twin brother, whom we only recently learned about in season 2, episode 4. According to the Fourth Appendix, it sounds as if Kier murdered his brother in Woe’s Hollow for masturbating in front of him. You tell me, dear reader, but I’m not buying the fairy tale that Dieter turned into a tree after “spreading his seed” all over mother nature. Ambrose Eagan Ambrose is Kier’s son and his first successor. However, he only led the company for a short time, from 1939 to 1941. Not much is known about Ambrose or his short tenure as Lumon CEO, so it’s possible that Kier’s son was a bit of a failure. There’s a square on the group’s Bingo game during the Perpetuity Wing episode in season 1 that reads: “Passive-Aggressive Shit-Talking of Ambrose." Another square reads, "Unexplained Eagan death." Myrtle Eagan Myrtle is Kier and Imogene’s daughter. She was Lumon’s first female CEO, running the company from 1941 to 1959. After whatever happened to Ambrose, Mrytle took over. She also likely founded the Myrtle Eagan School for Girls, which Harmony Cobel (Patricia Arquette) attended. "I think that to be an Eagan, either a true Eagan or anyone working in this Lumon family, what you are is the keeper of an ethos, a compact of values that we have long held as precious, and which I do believe will one day save this world,” her bust in the Perpetuity Wing says. “That ethos goes all the way back through my blood to where we all started, with Kier. When I was a girl, my father would make me whisper… Vision. Verve. Wit. Cheer. Humility. Benevolence. Nimbleness. Probity. Wiles.” Baird and Gerhart Eagan Baird was the fourth Lumon CEO, holding the position from 1959 to 1976. Gerhardt followed Baird as CEO from 1976 to 1987. Not much is known about either Eagan. They are only known as “descendants of Eagan” in the Perpetuity Wing, so it’s unknown exactly how the family tree continues after Myrtle. The neighbourhood in Kier, PE, where Mark (Adam Scott) lives is named Baird Creek Manor. Phillip Eagan Known as “Pip” Eagan, the sixth CEO sheparded Lumon Industries from 1987 to 1999. In episode 1, Mark receives a gift card from the company to a restaurant in town named Pip’s Bar & Grille. "Of course they gave you Pip's,” his sister remarks. Leonora Eagan Lumon’s second female CEO is Leonora Eagan, who led the company from 1999 to 2003. She died relatively young, at age forty-eight, but her cause of death is not revealed. Irving’s neighborhood of Leonora Lake is likely named after her. Jame Eagan Jame Eagan (Michael Siberry) is the current CEO, operating since 2003. He bears a resemblance to the founder, Kier, and is the first Lumon CEO to employ the severance technology. Whatever Lumon did before Jame didn’t involve severed employees at all. With this new tech at their disposal, the Eagans and Lumon are supposedly closer to their goal than ever before. Their success all hinges on Mark S.’s completion of a file named “Cold Harbor.” Helena Eagan Presumably next in line as Jame’s successor, Helena Eagan (Britt Lower) doesn’t seem to have a great relationship with her father. Jame tells her that “one day you will sit with me at my revolving." Despite this, Helena agrees to undergo the severance procedure herself and work on the severed floor to prove its efficacy to the public. Her Innie, Helly R., doesn’t share the same goals. When she discovers that she’s an Eagan in the season 1 finale, Helly R. attempts to tell the world that Lumon is lying to them about what really occurs within their company. In season 2, Helena attends work on the severed floor pretending to be her Innie, Helly R. Mr. Milchick (Tramell Tillman) seems aware of this when he’s forced to save her life at the end of season 2, episode 4. Despite this, her motivations remain unclear. If she was spying on the group for Lumon, why did she sleep with Mark S.? It’s possible that Helena was more interested in why her Innie fell in love with Mark S. than anything else. Who knows with this family! Check back here after the next episode. We’ll likely learn more about what the Eagans are up to at Lumon as the season goes on.


--- [‘Severance’'s Eagan Family Tree, Explained: A Character Guide] ---
Spoilers below. As far as anyone watching Severance knows, the Eagans are not gods. They’re human beings in stuffy suits and pencil skirts. But there’s no question that in the universe of the Apple TV+ series, they wield immense (and perhaps unchecked) power—the kind that grants them the ability not only to shape narratives but to mold the course of history itself. When it comes to the modern-day Eagans, their holiness is second only to their long-deceased patriarch, Kier. Lumon Industries, first founded by Kier Eagan in the 19th century, is a company of mysterious origins and even more mysterious deeds. No one inside or outside of Lumon seems to understand the full scope of what Lumon does—no one except, perhaps, the Eagans themselves, and the fortunate few brought into their inner circle. Audiences know Lumon is a biotechnology company that employs nearly half the city of Kier, PE. We know they produce and distribute a significant number of goods. We know that Lumon developed and popularized the “severance procedure,” in which an employee’s consciousness is bifurcated between their lives inside (“Innie”) and outside (“Outie”) of Lumon. We know the Eagans are probably not up to any good. Throughout Severance season 1, creator Dan Erickson drops breadcrumbs about Kier and his cohort, culminating in the dramatic reveal that Helly R., an employee on Lumon’s severed floor, is in fact Helena Eagan. Season 2 then reveals how Helena is working to manipulate her Innie’s friends in the Department of Macrodata Refinement. In spite of her efforts, her father—the Lumon CEO Jame Eagan—nevertheless does not “see Kier in her,” and has therefore sired other children “in the shadows.” It isn’t until he meets Helly R. that he “sees Kier” yet again. To make sense of what this means—and the lore that informs the MDR Innies’ misgivings—it’s important to trace the Eagan family tree back to its highest branches, especially as they face resistance from inside and outside Lumon. Let’s get into it. Kier Eagan Perhaps the most important figure in Lumon lore, Kier Eagan served as the company’s founder and its leader/CEO from 1865 to 1939. He is treated as a deity within Lumon itself, where oil paintings and writings detail his life and teachings. There is not much we know about Kier’s upbringing apart from what is shared in the appendices of the severed employee Compliance Handbook, which gathers Kier’s writings and treats them as scripture. Some of these passages detail how, as a 12-year-old boy, Kier worked in a furniture emporium, where he was beaten by his boss. He also mentions that he suffered from “consumption” (i.e. tuberculosis) as a child, and that his mother and father shared a “close biological relationship.” Several paintings within Lumon, as maintained by the Department of Optics & Design, showcase scenes from Kier’s life. These include The Youthful Convalescence of Kier, in which a young Kier is depicted recovering from tuberculosis; The Courtship of Kier and Imogene, in which an older Kier is seen meeting his future wife at an ether factory; and Kier Invites You to Drink of His Water, in which an even older Kier looks upon the Great Lakes; among others. Kier believed all human souls consisted of a balance of four so-called tempers: Woe, Frolic, Malice, and Dread. Only by “taming” these tempers could a person fulfill their purpose in life and do the greatest degree of “service” on Earth. He also believed that the highest form of service was labor, specifically the labor that stemmed from the “love” shared between employer and employee. As he espouses in the Compliance Handbook, “Endow in each swing of your axe or swipe of your pen the sum of your affections, that through me they may be purified and returned. No higher purpose may be found than this. Nor any higher love...This, after all, is the ultimate recompense for your labor. No monetary wage that I may give you can surmount the benefit of the pure love which can only exist between a worker and his employer. It is the only kind of truly selfless love.” Dieter Eagan The existence of Dieter Eagan was not revealed until Severance season 2, episode 4, in which the MDR Innies venture to Woe’s Hollow and learn of a secret Fourth Appendix to the Compliance Handbook. This Fourth Appendix is dedicated to Dieter, whom the Innies soon learn was Kier’s twin brother. As episode 4 demonstrates, Dieter died at Woe’s Hollow, supposedly turning into a tree as punishment for masturbating in the forest that would one day bear his name. It seems likelier—though not yet confirmed—that this tree-shapeshifting saga is simply Lumon propaganda and that Kier killed Dieter himself. If Dieter even existed at all! Imogene Eagan Kier first met Imogene, the woman who’d become his wife, while he was working as a stewman and she as a swab girl in an ether factory. Their romance is shown in the painting The Courtship of Kier and Imogene, which Irving and Burt gaze upon in Severance season 1. Little else is known about Imogene or her experience with Lumon, but she is mentioned again in season 2, episode 8, when Harmony Cobel and her one-time colleague/lover Hampton discuss Imogene and Kier’s love affair. “Kier and Imogene met at the ether mill, you know that?” Harmony asks, to which Hampton replies, “Was she hacking up a lung at the time?” Dark indeed. Ambrose Eagan Ambrose Eagan was Lumon’s CEO after his father, Kier. He led the company from 1939 to 1941—a conspicuously short amount of time, given that Kier himself reigned for nearly 75 years. Myrtle Eagan Myrtle Eagan, Kier and Imogene’s daughter, was Lumon’s third CEO and the company’s first female CEO, operating from 1941 to 1959. According to Irving, she “told her father at age 7 she was going to be the first” female CEO. She is the namesake for the Myrtle Eagan School for Girls, which Harmony Cobel attended, as well as the Myrtle Eagan Credit Union, which sends Irving’s Outie a letter in season 1. Baird Eagan The fourth Lumon CEO was Baird Eagan, active from 1959 to 1976. The neighborhood in which Mark Scout lives—Baird Creek Manor—bears his name. In the funeral scene in season 2, episode 5, a poster on the wall depicts a cartoonish version of Baird, encouraging the Innies to “grin and Baird it!” Gerhardt Eagan Gerhardt Eagan, CEO No. 5, operated from 1976 to 1987. The Kier, PE, restaurant Gerhardt’s, where Mark has a date with his sister’s doula in season 1, is named after him. Phillip “Pip” Eagan Phillip, better known as “Pip,” took control of Lumon from 1987 to 1999. Pip’s Bar & Grille, also seen in season 1, is another restaurant in Kier, PE. Leonora Eagan Lumon’s second female CEO, Leonora, worked from 1999 to 2003. Irving’s home neighborhood of Leonora Lake is named after her. Jame Eagan The current Lumon CEO—and father to Helena Eagan—is Jame Eagan, who ascended to the CEO title in 2003. His wax likeness first appears in the Perpetuity Wing in season 1, episode 3, but he makes his first in-the-flesh appearance (played by Michael Siberry) in the season 1 finale. He later appears thrice in season 2: in episodes 1, 9, and 10. Apart from his future-CEO daughter, Jame has apparently sired a number of secret children. When Mark, Devon, and Cobel attempt to sneak into the Damona Birthing Retreat in season 2’s penultimate episode, Cobel passes Devon off as “one of Jame’s” expecting mothers. “No one is to know,” she tells the security guard. How many little Eagans might Jame have hidden away over the years? Apparently, he has “sired” these others “in the shadows” in an attempt to find an heir with “Kier in them,” he tells Helly in the season 2 finale. But he hadn’t succeeded in discovering that spark of Kier...until he encountered Helly herself, his daughter’s rebellious Innie. Finally, it’s important to note that Jame is credited with having invented Lumon’s infamous severance procedure. But as we learn in season 2, he’s a fraud. Harmony Cobel invented severance; Jame merely put his name on her work. Helena Eagan Daughter of Jame and Lumon’s “leader-in-waiting,” as Seth Milchick puts it, Helena Eagan underwent the severance procedure as a public demonstration of its supposed humaneness and efficacy. Inside the Lumon severed floor, she is known as “Helly R.” Although she is not the company’s acting CEO, Helena seems to possess a great deal of power within Lumon. (This includes her ability to travel to the severed floor while retaining her Outie’s consciousness, as first revealed in season 2, episode 4.) Helena does not consider Innies to be “real people,” and her relationship with her father is ugly at best: At the beginning of season 2, he refers to her as a “fetid moppet.” Later, he tells her Innie that he does “not love my daughter.” (Helly responds with her signature sass: “You sound like a great dad.”) Perhaps most importantly, Jame does not seem satisfied with Helena as his legacy. In the season 2 finale, he claims to have “see[n] Kier in her” when she was young, “but he left her as she grew.” He did not “see Kier” in any of his children again until he met Helly, Helena’s Innie. What might that mean for Helly herself? Might Jame try to claim her as his Lumon heir—over the daughter he raised? Either way, the “fetid moppet” is in trouble. This story will be updated.


--- [Myrtle Eagan - Severance Wiki] ---
This site is spoiler-laden. Proceed with caution. Proceed with caution. Wiki Menu Contribute · About · Stats · Tags Categories Stay Updated Get the latest Severance news on the Media Wall. Connect Looking for our Discord link? You won't find it. But the community is still going!


--- [Severance's Eagan Family Tree Explained - Screen Rant] ---
No content
