=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Legacy of Walt Disney - D23]
Legacy of Walt Disney Display of Walt Disney’s awards and other memorabilia along with an exhibit, on the California Institute of the Arts, on Main Street at Disneyland from January 15, 1970 to February 11, 1973.
URL: https://d23.com/a-to-z/legacy-of-walt-disney/

[Walt Disney Family Museum]
Established, October 1, 2009 ; Location, Presidio of San Francisco ; Director, Kirsten Komoroske ; Curator, Marina Villar Delgado ; Architect, Page & Turnbull, Inc.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Walt_Disney_Family_Museum

[MANY Definition & Meaning - Merriam-Webster]
The meaning of MANY is consisting of or amounting to a large but indefinite number. How to use many in a sentence.
URL: https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/many

[List of former Disneyland attractions - Wikipedia]
Disneyland is a theme park in Anaheim, California conceived by Walt Disney. This is a list of attractions – rides, shows, shops and parades – that have appeared at the park but have permanently closed.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_former_Disneyland_attractions

[10th Anniversary Celebration]
Though the museum has welcomed visitors since October 1, 2009, one of the questions we're asked most frequently by guests remains: “Why is the museum here?” Why ...
URL: https://www.waltdisney.org/10th-anniversary-celebration


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Legacy of Walt Disney - D23] ---
Legacy of Walt Disney Display of Walt Disney’s awards and other memorabilia along with an exhibit, on the California Institute of the Arts, on Main Street at Disneyland from January 15, 1970 to February 11, 1973. Took the former space of the Wurlitzer shop, until the major awards were moved to the Walt Disney Story attractions at Disneyland and the Walt Disney World Magic Kingdom Park. At that time it became Disneyland Presents a Preview of Coming Attractions (1973-1989).


--- [Walt Disney Family Museum] ---
The Walt Disney Family Museum (WDFM) is an American museum that features the life and legacy of Walt Disney. The museum is located in The Presidio of San Francisco, part of the Golden Gate National Recreation Area in San Francisco.  The museum retrofitted and expanded three existing historic buildings on the Presidio's Main Post.  The principal building, at 104 Montgomery Street, faces the Parade Ground, and opened on October 1, 2009. Additional museum offices, the offices of the Walt Disney Family Foundation, and rotating major exhibitions are housed in the Diane Disney Miller Exhibition Hall at 122 Riley Avenue.
The Walt Disney Family Museum is a 501(c)(3) non-profit organization that was formally owned, operated and funded by the Walt Disney Family Foundation, a non-profit organization established by Disney's heirs including Diane Disney Miller, Disney's daughter and founder of the museum.
The museum is not formally associated with and is entirely independent of The Walt Disney Company, the media and entertainment conglomerate.  However, the museum has often cooperated with various company units to either borrow various items in the company's custody or to create authorized reproductions of such items to put on display—including the Walt Disney Archives, Walt Disney Animation Studios' Animation Research Library, and Walt Disney Imagineering.




--- [MANY Definition & Meaning - Merriam-Webster] ---
1 : consisting of or amounting to a large but indefinite number worked for many years the many advantages of an education 2 : being one of a large but indefinite number many a man many another student see also: plural in construction 1 : a large but indefinite number a good many of them 2 : the great majority of people the many Love words? Need even more definitions? Merriam-Webster unabridged


--- [List of former Disneyland attractions - Wikipedia] ---
Disneyland is a theme park in Anaheim, California conceived by Walt Disney. This is a list of attractions – rides, shows, shops and parades – that have appeared at the park but have permanently closed. Character meets and atmosphere entertainment (e.g., roving musicians) are not listed. Also not listed are permanently closed attractions from Disney California Adventure.


--- [10th Anniversary Celebration] ---
On October 1, 2019, The Walt Disney Family Museum will turn ten—and we are celebrating all year long. Join us for special events, programs, blog posts, and podcast episodes that honor the museum's first decade as an institution. Enjoy this special 10th Anniversary-themed animation our Studio Team created (to the left) as an ode to our museum. Please read more about our celebration below. Celebrate 10 Years of Magic with Us Walt's Legacy. Your Museum. I always thought it would be a good museum, but it’s much better than a good museum—it’s a great museum. Looking Back on the Museum's Origins Blog Post Excerpt For over a decade, Diane Disney Miller, Walt's daughter, considered how best to memorialize her father’s life story. Many people in her life suggested she write a book, but Diane finally decided that a museum would be the most fitting way to tell her father’s story. She felt that an interactive, innovative space—as opposed to a book—seemed more appropriate for her father, who was both an entertainer and an innovator. Though the museum has welcomed visitors since October 1, 2009, one of the questions we’re asked most frequently by guests remains: “Why is the museum here?” Why San Francisco and not one of the cities one thinks of when hearing the name “Disney,” like Burbank or Anaheim? Often, visitors wonder if Walt had a personal connection to San Francisco. Though he did visit a few times, and though there are threads of Walt’s story that intersect with the Bay Area, The Walt Disney Family Museum isn’t here because of Walt—it’s here, primarily, because of his daughter, Diane Disney Miller, the museum’s co-founder. She and her husband Ron Miller moved to the San Francisco Bay Area in the mid-1980s. They even founded Silverado Winery, just north of Napa, on land Lillian Disney, Walt’s wife, had purchased. For over a decade, Diane considered how best to memorialize her father’s life story. Many people in her life suggested she write a book, but Diane finally decided that a museum would be the most fitting way to tell her father’s story. She felt that an interactive, innovative space—as opposed to a book—seemed more appropriate for her father, who was both an entertainer and an innovator. Celebrate Our Museum, One Gallery at a Time Starting in February, we will celebrate one of our galleries each month. Much like a timeline, the galleries move chronologically through the story of Walt's living, beginning in 1901 and ending in 1966. Though special programming will spotlight each month's theme, weekly podcast episodes and blog posts will take a deeper look at the content, stories, and artifacts that fill our the galleries. As a special bonus, we'll also feature 10th Anniversary-themed merchandise on our webstore, so check back each month to explore our latest additions! WDFM | The Official Podcast Located in the historic Presidio of San Francisco, California, The Walt Disney Family Museum is a center for art, animation, and inspiration. Since October 1, 2009, our nonprofit museum has celebrated the remarkable life and legacy of Walt Disney, thanks in large part to Walt's daughter, Diane Disney Miller, who wanted to share her father's story with the world. Now, in recognition of the museum's tenth anniversary, this podcast will do its part to honor the man behind the magic. 10th Anniversary Pin Sales to Benefit Scholarship Fund In the spirit of Walt’s desire to provide those around him with educational opportunities, we are proud to offer a myriad of classes and workshops; each studio class introduces first-time students to new art forms, and offers continuing students the opportunity to hone their crafts. Join us in supporting a new generation of artists by purchasing a pin today! The Blog 10th Anniversary-Themed Posts Starting in February, we will celebrate one of our galleries each month. Much like a timeline, the galleries move chronologically through the story of Walt's living, beginning in 1901 and ending in 1966. While special programs and weekly podcast episodes will reiterate each month's theme, blog posts will take a deeper look at the content in the galleries. Check back throughout the month!
