=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[George Cooke (engraver) - Wikipedia]
He likewise attempted engraving in mezzotint, and in that style executed a plate of 'Arundel Castle,' after Turner; but it was not a success, and was never published. [1] Cooke died of ' brain fever ' on 27 February 1834 at Barnes, where he was buried. [1]
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/George_Cooke_(engraver)

[D-Day: The Allies Invade Europe - The National WWII Museum]
D-Day: The Allies Invade Europe In May 1944, the Western Allies were finally prepared to deliver their greatest blow of the war, the long-delayed, cross-channel invasion of northern France, code-named Overlord.
URL: https://www.nationalww2museum.org/war/articles/d-day-allies-invade-europe

[Cooke RA, Edward William (1811-1880)]
Edward William Cooke, the Roya Academician, died on Sunday, after a brief illness, at the age of 68, at his residence, Glen Audred, in the village of ...
URL: https://bravefineart.com/blogs/artist-directory/cooke-ra-edward-william-1811-1880

[George Cooke (engraver), Date of Birth, Place of Birth, Date ...]
George Cooke (22 January 1781 – 27 February 1834), was an English line engraver.
URL: https://www.bornglorious.com/person/?pi=5538104

[V-E Day: Victory in Europe - The National WWII Museum]
The flags of freedom fly over all Europe," Truman said. Truman designated May 8 as V-E Day and most of the Western Allies followed suit. The Soviets, however, designated May 9 as V-E Day or Soviet Victory Day, based on the document signed in Berlin. News of Germany's surrender ignited joyous celebrations in cities across the world.
URL: https://www.nationalww2museum.org/war/topics/v-e-day-victory-europe


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [George Cooke (engraver) - Wikipedia] ---
George Cooke (engraver) George Cooke (22 January 1781 – 27 February 1834), was an English line engraver.[1] Life and work [edit]Cooke was born in London in 1781. His father was a native of Frankfurt, Germany, who in early life settled in England and became a wholesale confectioner. At the age of 14, George Cooke was apprenticed to James Basire (1730-1802). Around the end of his apprenticeship he engraved many plates for Brewer's The Beauties of England and Wales, some in conjunction with his elder brother, William Bernard Cooke.[1] Afterwards, he produced engravings for Pinkerton's 16-volume Collection of Voyages and Travels, during which his brother William made plans for the first edition of The Thames, to which George Cooke contributed two plates.[2] This work was followed by Picturesque Views on the Southern Coast of England, from drawings made principally by Turner.[3] It was commenced in 1814 and completed in 1826, and George Cooke engraved 15 plates, nearly one-third of the total, and some vignettes. Next appeared an improved edition of The Thames, for which he engraved the 'Launch of the Nelson' and the 'Fair on the Thames,' after Luke Clennell, and the 'Opening of Waterloo Bridge,' after Philip Reinagle.[1] Between 1817 and 1833 he produced, in connection with Loddiges of Hackney, London a number of plates for the Botanical Cabinet,'[4] and about the same time he engraved some of the plates, after Turner, for Hakewill's Picturesque Tour of Italy, 1820,[5] and Sir Walter Scott's Provincial Antiquities and Picturesque Scenery of Scotland, 1826,[6] in which latter work should be especially noted "Edinburgh from the Calton Hill". To these were added plates for Thomas Allason's Antiquities of Pola, 1819, John Spencer-Stanhope's Olympia, (published by Rodwell and Martin, 1824), and D'Oyly and Mant's Bible,[7] as well as some of those for John Hughes' Views in the South of France, chiefly on the Rhone, after Peter De Wint.[1] Besides these Cooke engraved a few plates for the publications of the Dilettanti Society, and for the Ancient Marbles in the British Museum,[8] and the Ancient Terracottas[9] in the same collection, and single plates after Turner of a "View of Gledhow" for Whitaker's Loidis and Elmete, and "Wentworth House" for Thomas Dunham Whitaker's History of Richmondshire. In 1815, he produced some lithographs for Henry Holland's Travels in the Ionian Isles, .... He also engraved the "Iron Bridge at Sunderland", from an outline by Edward Blore; for Surtees's History of Durham; and the "Monument of Sir Francis Bacon" in St Michael's Church, St Albans, for Robert Clutterbuck's History of Hertfordshire.[1] In 1825, Cooke finished his fine engraving of "Rotterdam", from Augustus Wall Callcott's picture belonging to the Earl of Essex, and shortly afterwards issued a prospectus announcing a series of plates from Callcott's works, of which two, "Antwerp" and "Dover", were begun and considerably advanced when vexation at the loss of the proceeds of his 'Rotterdam,'caused by the failure of his agent, led to their abandonment.[1] He then began, in 1826, the Views in London and its Vicinity,[10] engraved from drawings by Callcott, Stanfield, Roberts, Prout, Stark, Harding, Cotman, and Havell, ending with the 12th issue just before his death.[1] In 1833, Cooke produced Views of the Old and New London Bridges, executed conjointly with his son, Edward William Cooke, who also made the drawings. He also produced plates for Frederick Nash's Views in Paris, Colonel Batty's Views of European Cities, Baron Taylor's Spain published by Robert Jennings, Rhodes's Peak Scenery and Yorkshire Scenery, several for Stark's Scenery of the Rivers of Norfolk, and one of "Southampton", after Copley Fielding, for the Gallery of the Society of Painters in Water Colours.[1] Cooke was one of the original members of the "Society of Associated Engravers", who joined together for the purpose of engraving the pictures in the National Gallery, and two of his plates were in preparation at the time of his death. He likewise attempted engraving in mezzotint, and in that style executed a plate of 'Arundel Castle,' after Turner; but it was not a success, and was never published.[1] Cooke died of 'brain fever' on 27 February 1834 at Barnes, where he was buried.[1] References [edit]- ^ a b c d e f g h i j "Cooke, George (1781-1834)". Dictionary of National Biography. London: Smith, Elder & Co. 1885–1900. - ^ The Thames etc (Vernor, Hood & Sharpe and W.B. Cooke, 1811). - ^ Joseph Mallord William Turner. Picturesque views on the southern coast of England (J. and A. Arch, 1826). - ^ Conrad Loddiges (and sons). The Botanical Cabinet (J. & A. Arch, 1822) - ^ James Hakewill. A picturesque tour of Italy: from drawings made in 1816-1817 (J. Murray, 1820). - ^ Walter Scott. Provincial antiquities of Scotland, volume II (R. Cadell, 1834). - ^ George D'Oyly & Richard Mant. The Holy Bible (Clarendon press, 1818). - ^ A description of the collection of ancient marbles in the British museum (W. Bulmer and co, 1812). - ^ A description of the collection of ancient terracottas in the British Museum (W. Bulmer and Co., 1810). - ^ George Cooke. Views in London and its vicinity (1826-34) Archived 14 July 2011 at the Wayback Machine External links [edit]Media related to "The Botanical Cabinet" - Conrad Loddiges & Son, London (1817-1833) at Wikimedia Commons - George Cooke online (ArtCyclopedia) - Engravings by George Cooke (Grosvenor Prints) - Engravings by George Cooke (rareoldprints.com)


--- [D-Day: The Allies Invade Europe - The National WWII Museum] ---
In May 1944, the Western Allies were finally prepared to deliver their greatest blow of the war, the long-delayed, cross-channel invasion of northern France, code-named Overlord. General Dwight D. Eisenhower was supreme commander of the operation that ultimately involved the coordinated efforts of 12 nations. After much deliberation, it was decided that the landings would take place on the long, sloping beaches of Normandy. There, the Allies would have the element of surprise. The German high command expected the attack to come in the Pas de Calais region, north of the river Seine where the English Channel is narrowest. It was here that Adolf Hitler had put the bulk of his panzer divisions after being tipped off by Allied undercover agents posing as German sympathizers that the invasion would take place in the Pas de Calais. Surprise was an essential element of the Allied invasion plan. If the Germans had known where and when the Allies were coming they would have hurled them back into the sea with the 55 divisions they had in France. The invaders would have been on the offensive with a 10-to-1 manpower ratio against them. The challenges of mounting a successful landing were daunting. The English Channel was notorious for its rough seas and unpredictable weather, and the enemy had spent months constructing the Atlantic Wall, a 2,400-mile line of obstacles. This defensive wall comprised 6.5 million mines, thousands of concrete bunkers and pillboxes containing heavy and fast-firing artillery, tens of thousands of tank ditches, and other formidable beach obstacles. And the German army would be dug in on the cliffs overlooking the American landing beaches. At the Tehran Conference in August 1943, Allied leaders scheduled Overlord to take no later than May 1, 1944. In the meantime, they prepared ceaselessly for the attack. Trucks, tanks, and tens of thousands of troops poured into England. “We were getting ready for one of the biggest adventures of our lives,” an American sergeant said. “We couldn’t wait.” Meanwhile, the American and British air forces in England conducted a tremendous bombing campaign that targeted railroad bridges and roadways in northern France to prevent the Germans from bringing in reserves to stop the invasion. After General Dwight D. Eisenhower was appointed Supreme Commander, he and General Sir Bernard L. Montgomery modified the plan, expanding the size of the beachhead and the number of divisions in the initial assault. This, led Allied leaders to set June 5, 1944, as the invasion’s D-Day. But on the morning of June 4, meteorologists predicted foul weather over the English Channel on the 5th, leading Eisenhower to postpone the attack for 24 hours. The delay was unnerving for soldiers, sailors, and airmen, but when meteorologists forecast a brief window of clearer weather over the channel on June 6, Eisenhower made the decision to go. It was one of the gutsiest decisions of the war. Just after midnight on June 6, Allied airborne troops began dropping behind enemy lines. Their job was to blow up bridges, sabotage railroad lines, and take other measures to prevent the enemy from rushing reinforcements to the invasion beaches. Hours later, the largest amphibious landing force ever assembled began moving through the storm-tossed waters toward the beaches. Most of the Americans were packed into flat-bottomed Higgins boats launched from troop transports 10 miles from the French coastline. Vomit filled the bottom of the boats, and as water kept rushing in over the gunwales, the green-faced men had to bail this vile stew with their helmets. Though it was cold, the men were sweating. Planners had divided the landing zone into five separate beaches. The Americans landed at Utah and Omaha beaches. The British and Canadians landed at Gold, Juno, and Sword beaches. The fiercest fighting was on Omaha Beach where the enemy was positioned on steep cliffs that commanded the long, flat shoreline. Troops leapt from their landing boats and were pinned down for hours by murderous machine-gun fire that turned the beach into a vast killing field. “If you (stayed) there you were going to die,” Lieutenant Colonel Bill Friedman said. “We just had to . . . try to get to the bottom of the cliffs on which the Germans had mounted their defenses.” By midday, the Americans had surmounted the cliffs and taken Omaha Beach at a heavy cost: over 2,400 killed, wounded, or missing out of the total of approximately 34,000 who came ashore that day, a loss rate of more than 7 percent. By nightfall, about 160,000 Allied troops were ashore with nearly a million more men on the way that summer. The Normandy invasion was one of great turning points of twentieth-century history. An immense army was placed in Nazi-occupied Europe, never to be dislodged. Germany was threatened that same month by a tremendous Soviet invasion from the east that would reach the gates of Berlin by the following April. The way to appreciate D-Day’s importance is to contemplate what would have happened if it had failed. Another landing would not have been possible for at least a year. This would have given Hitler time to strengthen the Atlantic Wall, harass England with the newly developed V-1 flying bombs and V-2 rockets, continue to develop jet aircraft and other so-called “miracle weapons,” and finish off his killing campaign against ethnic and sexual undesirables. Cite this article: MLA Citation: APA Citation: Chicago Style Citation:


--- [Cooke RA, Edward William (1811-1880)] ---
No content


--- [George Cooke (engraver), Date of Birth, Place of Birth, Date ...] ---
George Cooke (engraver) Date of Birth: 22-Jan-1781 Place of Birth: Hatton Garden, England, United Kingdom Date of Death: 27-Feb-1834 Profession: engraver, painter, printmaker Zodiac Sign: Aquarius


--- [V-E Day: Victory in Europe - The National WWII Museum] ---
In the Spring of 1945, Allied forces were converging on Germany from East and West. As they crossed into Germany, advancing soldiers encountered fierce resistance, cities devastated by bombing, and horrific evidence of Nazi crimes. Seeing the looming collapse of his regime, Nazi dictator Adolf Hitler took his own life on April 30, 1945. Within days, his successors surrendered unconditionally to Allied forces. On May 7, 1945, the Chief of Staff of the German Armed Forces High Command, Alfred Jodl, surrendered at General Dwight D. Eisenhower’s Allied headquarters in Reims. At the ceremony in which Jodl signed the Act of Military Surrender were representatives of the major Allied powers who also signed: France, the United Kingdom, the Soviet Union, and the United States. At Soviet request, another surrender document with few significant changes was signed in Berlin on May 8, 1945, by German Field Marshal Wilhelm Keitel, bringing a formal end to nearly six years of bloody fighting in Europe. Victory in Europe American President Harry Truman, who had only assumed the presidency weeks prior following the death of Franklin D. Roosevelt, addressed the nation by radio to announce Germany's surrender. "General Eisenhower informs me that the forces of Germany have surrendered to the United Nations. The flags of freedom fly over all Europe," Truman said. Truman designated May 8 as V-E Day and most of the Western Allies followed suit. The Soviets, however, designated May 9 as V-E Day or Soviet Victory Day, based on the document signed in Berlin. News of Germany's surrender ignited joyous celebrations in cities across the world. In New York City, church bells tolled and car horns sounded as 250,000 soldiers, sailors, and civilians gathered in Times Square to sing and celebrate. Across the nation, expressions of joy were accompanied by moments of Thanksgiving and somber reflection. People flocked to houses of worship to give thanks for the victory and pray for a swift end to the war in the Pacific. "This is Your Victory" In the United Kingdom, May 8, 1945, was declared a national holiday. But the people did not wait to celebrate. Instead, they packed pubs and lit bonfires the night before. Restaurants created special victory menus, and the Ministry of Food made sure there were sufficient beer supplies in London. Winston Churchill addressed the cheering crowds on V-E Day saying, "This is your victory." But the crowds shouted back at him, "No, it's yours." V-E Day, however, did not mark the final Allied victory. On the island of Okinawa, American forces marked V-E Day by firing a barrage of artillery rounds at Japanese positions at midnight. It was a grim reminder that while fighting had ceased in one theater, World War II still raged in the Pacific. Episode 4: Victory in Europe May to July 1945: Germany surrenders. The war in Europe is over, but the fighting in the Pacific rages on. America prepares to test the most fearsome weapon ever created.
