=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Riemann Prize - Wikipedia]
Riemann Prize The Riemann Prize is a mathematics prize awarded every three years to outstanding mathematicians between 40 and 65 years of age, given by the Riemann International School of Mathematics in Italy. The award is named in honor of Bernhard Riemann. Established in 2019, it was first awarded to Terence Tao in 2020.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Riemann_Prize

[Grokipedia: Riemann Prize]
Learn more about Riemann Prize on Grokipedia.
URL: https://grokipedia.com/page/Riemann_Prize

[Previous Winners - The Jerusalem International Book Forum]
The Jerusalem International Book Forum has hosted the winners of the 2019 Jerusalem Prize. Joyce Carol Oates received the prize from the Mayor of Jerusalem Moshe Lion at the joint opening ceremony of the Jerusalem International. The 2017 Jerusalem Prize was awar...
URL: https://www.jbookforum.com/jerusalem-prize-previous-winners/

[Robert Langlands, Mathematical Visionary, Wins the Abel Prize | Quanta Magazine]
Robert Langlands Mathematical Visionary Wins the Abel Prize Quanta Magazine. Langlands was named the winner of the 2018 Abel Prize at a ceremony in Norway this morning. The prize which is modeled on the Nobel is one of the highest honors in mathematics. There ar...
URL: https://www.quantamagazine.org/robert-langlands-mathematical-visionary-wins-the-abel-prize-20180320/

[The Improbable Road to Riemann]
The Improbable Road to Riemann is a mathematical problem that has remained unsolved for 161 years. It took five years for an expert committee to approve the proof and a prize. The Riemann Hypothesis is among the list of seven great Mathematics problems each of w...
URL: https://debrajray.blogspot.com/2021/07/the-improbable-road-to-riemann.html


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Riemann Prize - Wikipedia] ---
The Riemann Prize is a mathematics prize awarded every three years to outstanding mathematicians between 40 and 65 years of age, given by the Riemann International School of Mathematics in Italy. The award is named in honor of Bernhard Riemann. Established in 2019, it was first awarded to Terence Tao in 2020. It is co-sponsored by the regional government of Lombardy, all public and private universities in the region, and the municipality of Varese.
The winner of the Prize is selected by an international committee, the first one composed by: Enrico Bombieri (IAS), Daniele Cassani (RISM – University of Insubria), S.-Y. Alice Chang (Princeton University), Ron Donagi (University of Pennsylvania), Louis Nirenberg (CIMS – NYU, 1925–2020).


--- [Grokipedia: Riemann Prize] ---
Formed in 2009, the Archive Team (not to be confused with the archive.org Archive-It Team) is a rogue archivist collective dedicated to saving copies of rapidly dying or deleted websites for the sake of history and digital heritage. The group is 100% composed of volunteers and interested parties, and has expanded into a large amount of related projects for saving online and digital history. History is littered with hundreds of conflicts over the future of a community, group, location or business that were "resolved" when one of the parties stepped ahead and destroyed what was there. With the original point of contention destroyed, the debates would fall to the wayside. Archive Team believes that by duplicated condemned data, the conversation and debate can continue, as well as the richness and insight gained by keeping the materials. Our projects have ranged in size from a single volunteer downloading the data to a small-but-critical site, to over 100 volunteers stepping forward to acquire terabytes of user-created data to save for future generations. The main site for Archive Team is at archiveteam.org and contains up to the date information on various projects, manifestos, plans and walkthroughs. This collection contains the output of many Archive Team projects, both ongoing and completed. Thanks to the generous providing of disk space by the Internet Archive, multi-terabyte datasets can be made available, as well as in use by the Wayback Machine, providing a path back to lost websites and work. Our collection has grown to the point of having sub-collections for the type of data we acquire. If you are seeking to browse the contents of these collections, the Wayback Machine is the best first stop. Otherwise, you are free to dig into the stacks to see what you may find. The Archive Team Panic Downloads are full pulldowns of currently extant websites, meant to serve as emergency backups for needed sites that are in danger of closing, or which will be missed dearly if suddenly lost due to hard drive crashes or server failures.


--- [Previous Winners - The Jerusalem International Book Forum] ---
Previous Winners 2021 - British Author Julian Barnes Julian Barnes is the author of twenty-four books including, most recently, THE MAN IN THE RED COAT. He received the Man Booker Prize for THE SENSE OF AN ENDING and numerous other literary prizes including: the Somerset Maugham Award, the Geoffrey Faber Memorial Prize, the David Cohen Prize for Literature, and the E. M. Forster Award from the American Academy of Arts and Letters; the French Prix Médicis and Prux Femina; the Austrian State Prize for European Literature. In 2017 he was awarded the Légion d’Honneur by the French government. His work has been translated into more than forty languages. He lives in London. From the Jury’s Decision: “… Barnes’ greatness is to be found in his ability to think and express himself not only in words but in notes and keys, similes and metaphors, ruminations and silences, and to alchemize those elements into strong, glowing literature.” Members of the jury for the 2021 Prize were Prof. Nurit Gertz (chairperson), Alit Karp and Dror Mish’ani. Photo by Urszula Soltyz 2019 - American Author Joyce Carol Oates The 2019 Jerusalem Prize was awarded to critically acclaimed American Author Joyce Carol Oates. Oates received the prize from the Mayor of Jerusalem, Moshe Lion, at the joint opening ceremony of the Jerusalem International Book Forum and the International Writers Festival of Mishkenot Sha’ananim (May 12, 2019). From the Jury’s decision: “With a deep and profound psychological understanding, she confronts her heroes – as well as her readers – with the ways in which people deal with internal or external demons, and their struggle defines the boundaries of the human condition. But throughout this confrontation, even in its wildest manifestations, a constant line of grace and compassion is discernible.” Joyce carol Oates: “I am deeply honored to be a recipient of this distinguished international literary award made to writers whose work deals with the freedom of the individual in society. In a world in which individual freedoms are under assault, the autonomy of the individual and the role of art in our lives is of great concern.” Members of the jury for the 2019 Prize were Dr. Tamar Hess (chairperson), Dr. Omri Herzog and Prof. Shimon Adaf. Photo by Dustin Cohen 2017 - Norwegian author Karl Ove Knausgård The 2017 Jerusalem Prize was awarded to Karl Ove Knausgård by Mayor of Jerusalem (at the time), Mr. Nir Barkat, in an official ceremony held at the YMCA hall, marking the opening of the 2017 Jerusalem International Book Fair. Knausgård was chosen by by unanimous decision. The jury of the prize – Prof. Ruth Fine (Chair), Dr. Diana Lipton and Mr. Ioram Melcer – found many reasons to name Knausgård its recipient: “Over a period of nearly two decades, the writing of the Norwegian novelist Karl Ove Knausgård has become a literary sensation, a phenomenon in itself. First published in 1998, this critically acclaimed and immensely popular author has managed to provoke some powerful reactions and spur debates over pivotal issues: differences of interpretation; the boundaries of social discourse; the blurred line between fiction and autobiography; and the role of the family unit in collective and individual self-perception.” “Knausgård’s best-known project is a series of six novels, originally published in Norwegian and translated into many languages, in which the author subjects his own life to an unflinching, profound, meticulous and comprehensive literary gaze. As readers throughout the world now know it’s hard to look away.” “For his artful craft, for his challenge to accepted notions private and public, and above all for his elevation of the ordinary lives of ordinary people, we are honored to award Karl Ove Knausgård with the 2017 Jerusalem Prize.” Photo by Thomas Waagstroem 2015 - Albanian author Ismail Kadare Born in 1936, Ismail Kadare is Albania’s best-known poet and novelist. His books have been translated into 30 different languages. In 2005 he was awarded the first Man Booker International Prize for ‘a body of work written by an author who has had a truly global impact.’He is also the recipient of the 2009 Principe de Asturias de las Letras in Spain. Photo © John Foley, Opale 2013 - Spanish Author Antonio Muñoz Molina Molina does not hesitate to wander among different literary genres and subjects, such as historic and detective novels or fantasy. His works feature somber, melancholy characters, including anonymous or famous political exiles, refugees and displaced persons who have disappeared in Fascist prisons, the Soviet gulags and Nazi extermination camps. The sympathy that Molina expresses for exiles and those who are suffering, those hurt by historic revolutions, and the virtuoso literary expression he gives them, make him one of the most important authors of our time. Photo by Antonio Koeln 2011 - British author Ian McEwan Ian McEwan is regarded as one of the greatest British and world authors of the 20th century. His characters struggle for the right to fulfill themselves and put their ideas into action, as well as for the right to an independent existence in a changing post-World War II Europe. His protagonists experience personal and social upheavals − crises that shatter not only their private worlds, but the Western world as a whole. McEwan’s protagonists struggle for their right to give personal expression to their ideas, and to live according to those ideas in an environment of political and social turmoil. Photo by Dudi (David) Sa'ad 2009 - Japanese Author Haruki Murakami From the Jury’s Decision: Murakami’s minimalist and lucid prose style makes him a highly accessible writer, but the full complexity of his literary world is evident even as one begins to read him (…) one of the great world authors of our generation despite his native land’s centrality to his creative work (…) In recognition of his love of people and his humanism, and out of esteem for his artistic achievements, it was unanimously decided to confer on Murakami the 2009 Jerusalem Prize. More on Haruki Murakami: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Haruki_Murakami Photo by Elena Seibert Earlier Years Winners - 2007 – Leszek Kolakowski - 2005 – Antonio Lobo Antunes - 2003 – Arthur Miller - 2001 – Susan Sontag - 1999 – Don DeLillo - 1997 – Jorge Sémprún - 1995 – Mario Vargas Llosa - 1993 – Stefan Heym - 1991 – Zbiegniew Herbert - 1989 – Ernesto Sabato - 1987 – J. M. Coetsee - 1985 – Milan Kundera - 1983 – V. S. Naipaul - 1981 – Graham Green - 1979 – Sir Isaiah Berlin - 1977 – Octavio Paz - 1975 – Simone de Beauvoir - 1973 – Eugene Ionesco - 1971 – Jorge Luis Borges - 1969 – Ignazio Silone - 1967 – André Schwarz-Bart - 1964 – Max Frisch - 1963 – Bertrand Russell


--- [Robert Langlands, Mathematical Visionary, Wins the Abel Prize | Quanta Magazine] ---
Robert Langlands, Mathematical Visionary, Wins the Abel Prize Introduction Robert Langlands, who developed one of the most original insights of 20th-century mathematics, was named the winner of the 2018 Abel Prize at a ceremony in Norway this morning. The prize, which is modeled on the Nobel, is one of the highest honors in mathematics. Langlands, 81, an emeritus professor at the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, New Jersey, is the progenitor of the “Langlands program,” which explores a deep connection between two pillars of modern mathematics: number theory, which studies arithmetic relationships between numbers, and analysis, which is an advanced form of calculus. The link has far-reaching consequences that mathematicians have used to answer centuries-old questions about the properties of prime numbers. Langlands first articulated his vision for the program in 1967 — when he was 30 — in a letter to the famed mathematician André Weil. He opened the 17-page missive with a now-legendary stroke of modesty: “If you are willing to read it as pure speculation, I would appreciate that,” he wrote. “If not — I am sure you have a waste basket handy.” Since then, generations of mathematicians have taken up and expanded upon his vision. The Langlands program now ranges over so many different fields that it is often referred to as the search for a “grand unified theory” of mathematics. “It’s revolutionary, I think, as far as the history of mathematics is concerned,” said James Arthur, a mathematician at the University of Toronto and former student of Langlands’. Mathematicians have always been interested in finding patterns in prime numbers — those numbers that are divisible only by one and themselves. Primes are like the atomic elements of number theory, the fundamental pieces from which the study of arithmetic is built. There are an infinite number of them, and they appear to be scattered randomly among all numbers. To find patterns in primes — like how frequently they occur (which is the subject of the famous Riemann hypothesis) — it’s necessary to relate them to something else. Seen correctly, the primes act like a cipher, which turns into a beautiful message when read through the right key. “They look like random accidents, but especially through the Langlands program, it’s turning out they have an extremely complex structure that relates them to all sorts of other things,” said Arthur. One question about the structure of primes is which primes can be expressed as a sum of two squares. The first few examples include: 5, a prime number that equals 22 + 12, 13, which equals 32 + 22, and 29, which equals 52 + 22. In the 17th century, number theorists discovered that all primes that can be expressed as a sum of two squares share another property: They leave a remainder of 1 when divided by 4. The work began to reveal a hidden structure to the primes. Then in the late 18th century, Carl Friedrich Gauss generalized this surprising link, formulating a “reciprocity” law that linked certain primes (those that are a sum of two squares) to an identifying characteristic (when divided by 4, they leave a remainder of 1). In his letter, Langlands proposed a vast extension of the kind of reciprocity law Gauss had discovered. Gauss’s work applied to quadratic equations — those with exponents no higher than the number 2. Langlands suggested that the prime numbers encoded in higher-degree equations (like cubic and quartic equations) should be in a reciprocity relationship with the far-off mathematical land of harmonic analysis, which grows out of calculus and is frequently used to solve problems in physics. For example, scientists in the 19th century were surprised to discover that when they looked at starlight through a prism, they didn’t find a continuous spectrum of colors. Instead, the spectrum was interrupted here and there by black lines, now called absorption spectra, where the light was missing. Eventually the scientists realized that the missing light had been absorbed by elements in the stars. This discovery provided solid evidence that the stars and our planet are made from the same material. At the same time, the spectral lines became objects of mathematical interest. The missing wavelengths gave a sequence of numbers — the frequencies of the absent light. Mathematicians could study those numbers through analysis. Or they could work on wholly new kinds of equations — inspired, perhaps, by questions in physics, but arising purely from analysis and geometry. Based on those new equations, they could study a parallel notion of absorption spectra. The Langlands program relates prime number values of polynomial equations to spectra from the differential equations studied in analysis and geometry. It says that there should be a reciprocity relationship between the two. As a result, you should be able to characterize which prime numbers appear in specific settings by understanding which numbers appear in the corresponding spectra. The two sets of numbers can’t be compared directly, though. They each have to be translated through different kinds of mathematical objects. In particular, Galois representations, which are based on primes, should pair with objects called automorphic forms, which contain the relevant spectra. Today mathematicians working in the Langlands program are trying to prove that relationship and many other related conjectures. At the same time, they’re using Langlands-type connections to solve problems that would otherwise seem out of reach. The most celebrated result in this regard is Andrew Wiles’s proof in 1995 of Fermat’s Last Theorem. Wiles’s proof depended in part on exactly the type of relationship between number theory and analysis that Langlands had predicted decades earlier. The Langlands program has expanded considerably over the years. Yet when you push aside all the complex machinery that’s been created to realize Langlands’ vision, you see that the whole massive enterprise remains motivated by some of the most basic of mathematical concerns. “Understanding the properties of which primes occur in an equation basically amounts to a fundamental classification of the arithmetic world,” said Arthur. This article was reprinted in Spanish at Investigacionyciencia.es.


--- [The Improbable Road to Riemann] ---
The Improbable Road to Riemann | Fuji-san on the approach to Narita airport; Debraj Ray (2017) | “After careful perusal of all the arguments in the proof and the reviews from the experts who have responded, the Committee felt that there are no negative arguments that could technically invalidate the proof and therefore have arrived at the firm conclusion that the proof by Dr. K. Eswaran is both credible and acceptable and that the RH can be considered as proven." The two-hundred page Report was then released to the Indian press. Reactions in all the major Indian newspapers ran the positive gamut, from enthusiastic corroboration to a sense that an ongoing injustice had been righted. The Hindu, a leading Indian daily, headlined their article with “SNIST physicist finds solution for Riemann Hypothesis." The equally eminent Deccan Chronicle chimed in, “Hyderabad math wizard solves Riemann hypothesis." The Times of India tut-tutted that “there was a reluctance on the part of the editors of international journals to put the paper through a detailed peer review." Shashi Tharoor, Member of Parliament and an acclaimed author with an enormous Indian fanbase (8 million) on Twitter, emitted an exultant tweet: “The Riemann Hypothesis is a mathematical problem that has remained unsolved for 161 years — until mathematical physicist Kumar Eswaran from Hyderabad did it. It took five years for an expert committee to approve the proof — and a $1 million prize." We might be admonished for our double-take at Tharoor’s fast and loose mixing of the facts: he is a writer of fiction after all. As it happens, the Committee was set up in January 2020, and delivered its verdict at a pretty fast clip (especially considering the gravity of the claim at hand). And what’s all this about a million dollar prize? Well, there is one, but it isn’t for this Expert Committee to give. The Riemann Hypothesis is among the list of seven great Mathematics problems, each of which qualifies for a one-million-dollar Millenium Prize of the Clay Institute. Only one of these problems is solved — the Poincaré Conjecture, by Grigori Perelman (who incidentally refused the Prize). The Clay Institute hasn’t printed Eswaran’s check yet, though: its rules state that at least two years must have elapsed since publication, with “general acceptance in the global mathematics community." Alas, with Eswaran’s repeated attempts at publications apparently so unfairly rebuffed, that isn’t about to happen any time soon. Or is it? Vinayak Eswaran certainly thinks so. He is Kumar’s younger brother, a Professor himself in the Department of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering at the Indian Institute of Technology in Hyderabad. If you search on YouTube, you will come across his Seven Lectures on the Proof of the Riemann Hypothesis, a silent but well-written self-scrolling document that we found useful to read, and very lucid too. He was invited to provide his assessment to the aforementioned “Expert Committee." In his review, Vinayak writes (emphasis in the original): I fully believe Kumar Eswaran has proved the Riemann Hypothesis. As to why he, Kumar, and no other of so many great mathematicians that have chased this Grail, Vinayak’s answer is that Kumar was blessed to find the only key that unlocked the secret door. Invoking both Tolkienesque imagery and Ramanujan’s Goddess of Mathematics, Vinayak writes: “It is most fortunate that a key to that door even existed, . . . it quite easily may not have, making the [Hypothesis] forever out of reach of proof, driving gifted mathematicians to insanity a thousand years from now . . . I like to imagine that the Goddess looked down from the high heavens and saw a seventy-year-old man reading an abstract tract on the Riemann Hypothesis late into a moonlit night, by the last light of Durin’s day, and said to herself, ‘Why, he loves me truly’, and impetuously slipped him the intuition of the secret door into the Lonely Mountain, a boon she had denied the greatest mathematicians of the 20th Century." Then there is Kumar Eswaran himself. The title of his hitherto-neglected paper is “The Final and Exhaustive Proof of the Riemann Hypothesis from First Principles," presumably designed to blow-torch all doubt from the minds of errant skeptics. In correspondence with one such skeptic and reviewer for the “Expert Committee," Eswaran writes: "The Riemann Hypothesis is the greatest open problem in Mathematics. I believe I have solved it comprehensively. I request you to look at the proof again. . . , as I found your review had missed many aspects which I believe, are very crucial to the proof (I beg your pardon for saying so!). This onerous task, which I am asking you to kindly take up, will not only do justice to my work but to the great problem it addresses. . . . In the End, as in all matters of consequence, Truth will prevail." Eswaran’s paper has been submitted to several journals. From each of these — going by the Expert Committee’s report — the submission has been rejected without peer review. In some cases he has been encouraged to seek the advice of a number theorist or more generally a pure mathematician rather than other engineers or physicists. Apparently, he has tried, without much success. It perhaps does not help either that no member of this Committee of Experts is a pure mathematician. In this era of Fake News, where even obvious untruths can be proclaimed to serve as Gospel, Kumar Eswaran’s story stands out as irresistibly fascinating. No one reading Kumar’s correspondence with his reviewers can fail to be moved by his sincere, unshakeable belief that he has pulled something off, but that others just cannot see it. No one reading his brother Vinayak’s eloquent prose can fail to be moved by his sense of intellectual excitement and fraternal solidarity. These individuals are not Fake News. They are, as an American might say, the real deal. Which is of course not to say that they are correct, on which more below. And what about the “Committee of Experts," and their Report? The Report, as we’ve already said, was commissioned by the Sreenidhi Institute, which employs Kumar Eswaran. This Group offers various educational degrees in engineering and charges fees that the market will bear. It is one of several private-sector higher educational institutions which have proliferated in India. Their webpage will cheerily greet you with the message, "Vaccines for All, Free for All! Thank you P.M. Modi!" The Chairman of this Sreenidhi Group is a Dr. K.T. Mahhe, whose biography states that he is an “oft-quoted name in the field of education" who “began his entrepreneurial career in the early nineties, at the young age of 21 years." The high point of his career to date is recorded thus: “Recognition in its truest form came when Sreenidhi became the only private institution among 120 institutions from the region to be selected by the World Bank for assistance." One wonders how that came about, but that story must await a different telling. For the moment, Dr. Mahhe is comfortably (and conveniently) convinced that Kumar has socked it to the Riemann Hypothesis: “Almost 5 years ago he [Kumar Eswaran] had found a proof of the famous unsolved problem namely ‘The Riemann Hypothesis’. He had put up his proof on the Web and there were very many downloads (numbering in several thousands), and given several lectures on his methods. These lectures were well received and there were no unresolvable negative comments however, in spite of all this there was a reluctance on the part of the Editors of International Journals to put the paper though a detailed Peer review." The Chair of the “Expert Committee," Professor P. Narasimha Reddy, followed suit: “We, as responsible scientists, believe that a paper on such an important problem as RH should not suffer from a lack of review . . . In this connection, more than a thousand invitation letters were sent worldwide by email in the month of February 2020." Over 1,200 invitations is a more exact number. But this is what the Committee harvested: just three reports (one co-authored). To fill this yawning hole, two committee members then “chose to take upon [sic] this onerous task" of writing additional reviews. A final review was obtained by inviting Professor Vinayak Eswaran, Kumar’s younger brother, on the grounds that he “had taken the trouble to spend the best part of two years to understand and study the background material and understand the proof." The inside reports are short and sweet. One stated that “the author’s analysis is exhaustive, unambiguous, and every step in the analysis is explained in great detail and established." The other observed that “judiciously using the properties of the random walk problem one shows that Riemann’s Hypothesis is true. There is also a numerical proof given" [emphasis ours, though perhaps an interrobang is called for?!]. In contrast, Vinayak’s invited report was passionate and detailed; we have already quoted from it above, but he has more to say. He notes that Kumar sent his paper to several leading international outlets, but: “In all cases he received a straight-forward refusal to review the paper, or very cursory review, no more than a paragraph long, that dismissed the paper. Appeals for reconsideration were either refused or just ignored. The reviews invariably gave the impression that the reviewer had not read beyond a few pages, merely looking for a quick reason to reject the paper." And this brings us to a more sinister turn in the proceedings, one that promises to simmer well in the Fake News vat: “Contrast this to the way the world mathematics elite treats one of its own. Within living memory, a longstanding great problem in number theory to be solved was Fermat’s Last Theorem. Andrew Wiles, then a professor at Princeton University, proposed a proof in 1993. It was immediately closely examined by other academic mathematicians, and a flaw was found within a few months. Wiles, helped by another mathematician, took a full year to discover a fix for the proof which was finally published in a dedicated issue of the Annals of Mathematics in 1995, and Wiles became a star in the constellation of mathematics genius . . . Kumar’s proposed proof is comprehensible by an undergraduate, and yet, five years on, he still awaits a sincere review of his paper by academic mathematicians! [There is a] wide prejudice, common in the West but prevalent even in the developing nations, that a breakthrough on a great problem would come only from the West by individuals working at a great western university. Kumar, in other words, is an improbability so remote as to be essentially an impossibility. Which is why, it would seem, no number theorist would even bother reading his paper with any seriousness. Just a different address would have ensured that he got all the help and recognition he needed and deserved five years ago, while now he waits to be formally reviewed for a break-through that would put his name on the front page of every newspaper in the world." It might help at this stage to say a few words about your authors, Debraj Ray and Rahul Roy. We are two academics with mathematical training. One of us, based in New York, is an economist who works in game theory, the other, based in New Delhi, is a probability theorist. We have been friends since we were children; we have worked together as colleagues. With others and among ourselves, we have wrestled with the themes that Vinayak Eswaran’s anguish brings, distilled and concentrated, seething to the surface. As past Co-Editor of the American Economic Association's American Economic Review, Debraj has constantly been faced with these questions, occasionally (but not infrequently) in an accusatory way. In Rahul’s role as Editor of the Indian National Science Academy's Indian Journal of Pure and Applied Mathematics, these issues crop up, if anything, in reverse: international submissions are just as often rejected as their domestic counterparts. Neither of us personally claims mistreatment at the hands of a discriminatory world; alas, we have been too privileged in our academic upbringing to claim that easy fix for our own professional shortcomings. But the sense around many colleagues and friends that there is insidiously unequal treatment, whether by race, gender or (in this case) international location, is persistent and unceasing. As some of these imbalances receive more corrective attention than others, the others will surely grow. For this reason, the Eswaran case captivated us. But there were other reasons. Fortunately for our mental health, we do not anticipate solving the Riemann Hypothesis in the near or distant future. That said, we have the basic mathematical knowledge to understand what the Hypothesis is about. We understand the classical roads that have been paved to both its genesis and its solution. We look up to these road builders — and especially to Euler and Riemann — with the greatest of respect. One might liken our knowledge (if stretched optimistically) to a somewhat strained ability to make it, wheezing and puffing, up to Everest Base Camp. The view even at these low altitudes isn’t bad. It enabled us to take a good look at Kumar Eswaran’s paper. (It goes without saying that the insanely brief and non-technical verbal description that is about to follow can do very little justice to the delicate nature of the problem, but it will have to do for our purposes.) Briefly, the Riemann Hypothesis concerns locations of the so-called “nontrivial zero" values of a certain distinguished function defined on the plane of complex numbers, called the Riemann zeta function. Specifically, these are the points on the complex plane for which the function returns a value of zero in both its real and imaginary components. The locations of these non-trivial zeros have deep connections with the distribution of prime numbers, a fact that was itself a revelation, connecting as it did the smooth contours of complex analysis with the jagged combinatorial methods of number theory. (And so analytic number theory was born with the presentation of Bernhard Riemann’s classic 1859 paper.) Riemann conjectured that the location of all the non-trivial zeros of his zeta function must lie on a single strip in the complex plane, one corresponding to a real component of 1/2. This is the Hypothesis. Riemann’s zeta function is only explicitly defined on a proper subset of the complex plane, and then extended to the rest of the complex plane by using the powerful technique of analytic continuation, a method that permits smooth complex functions to be (smoothly and uniquely) continued into areas where they may not be defined by explicit formulae. The insight to finding the zeros of this function comes from “flipping" the zeta function to something closely related: its reciprocal. Just as the original function is defined by analytic continuation, so can the reciprocal function be similarly defined, with an additional feature: where the original zeta function hits a zero, this reciprocal must blow up “to infinity," thus preventing its analytic continuation — which is impossible to do at these blow-up points. Put another way, the failure of the reciprocal function to be analytically continued is then a signal that the function itself is exploding to infinity, which would then signal that Riemann’s zeta function is about to hit zero. Turning that last point on its head, if we can continue the analytic continuation all the way back to the vertical strip identified by Riemann, there cannot be any zeros outside that strip, a finding that would prove the Hypothesis. This insight comes from the great British mathematician John Edensor Littlewood, and it is an insight that Eswaran follows in his paper, without additional novelty, until we arrive at the particular point where we must determine whether the analytical continuation of the reciprocal function is possible or not. Extending our Himalayan analogy, this leads us into a wonderfully deceptive little plateau where we can catch our breath. Whether that continuation is possible depends on the property of a sequence of binary numbers, the so-called Liouville λ function, which just takes two values: +1 if its rank in the sequence (ignoring 1) is the product of an even number of prime numbers, and −1 if its rank is the product of an odd number of primes. This strange and beautiful object behaves erratically as we proceed down the sequence: a few +1’s are suddenly followed by a −1, and vice versa, for all intents and purposes “behaving randomly" as the sequence wears on. Such weird behavior by anything that has to do with prime numbers comes as no surprise to any number theorist, of course. Don’t take our word for it: this Wikipedia link will introduce you nicely to Liouville, has lots of diagrams, and will also show you how the function is connected to the reciprocal form of the Riemann zeta function, in exactly the way that Eswaran correctly makes that connection. Indeed, this connection has been made already in the work of Edmund Landau, and there is a substantial literature on it; see, for instance, Borwein, Ferguson and Mossinghoff (2008) and a more recent expository article by Osler and Wright (2019). But it is at this point, alas, with Everest tantalizingly visible on the horizon (thanks to John Littlewood), that Kumar Eswaran makes his mistake. The fact that the negative and positive values of the Liouville λ function looks random does not allow you to conclude that it is random. The λ function is profoundly deterministic: for each rank as we march down the ordered list of natural numbers, there is not the slightest smidgen of a doubt regarding its unique prime number factorization, and therefore about the number of primes that enter into its factorization. In particular, whether that number is even or odd is fixed since and for all eternity. We must tread very carefully on this slippery terrain, and credit must be given to Eswaran where it is due. We do not intend to suggest that Eswaran views λ as random. His error — or rather his leap of faith — is to imagine that the limit theorems pertaining to truly random variables can be applied to this deterministic sequence, simply because they have the aura of pseudo-randomness. These limit theorems are elementary — any advanced Math major knows them — which explains Vinayak’s exasperated exclamation above that “Kumar’s proposed proof is comprehensible by an undergraduate"! Yes, it is comprehensible, but correctness is another matter altogether. To make proper headway, one would need to embed λ into a stochastic process defined on the space of binary-valued sequences, and then slay the demon of whether the particular sequence of Liouville is “generic" in that probability space, so that limit theorems (which are only probability-one statements, after all, not statements about every sample path) can be brought to bear. Oh, it is still a long way up. Or worse still, we have redefined our vista with Littlewood’s help, but the new problem at hand has all the diabolical subtleties of the Riemann Hypothesis nestled within it. It is a restatement of the Hypothesis, if you will, not its resolution. We will rest our own examination there, and turn to the three outside reviewers. By and large, their response isn’t different, which comes as no surprise to us. All the reviews are courteous and engage fully with the paper, but they raise doubts. The co-authored review (by Ken Roberts and S. R. Valluri of the Physics and Astronomy Department, University of Western Ontario) makes several points, and among them notes: “It is worthwhile to give more thought to the concept of how a deterministic sequence might be ‘sufficiently like’ a random walk. At various places in the text . . . , the assertion is made that any sequence (deterministic or not) which shares certain properties with unbiased random walks will necessarily satisfy [standard limit theorems]. We are not confident of that assertion. It requires further justification, in our opinion. It would be a useful result, and deserves to be explored fully." They also observe that some aspects of Kumar Eswaran’s exertions in this regard could lead to separate byproducts of interest, and these “should be published so they are made known to a wider community of scholars." A second report by Germán Sierra (of the Institute of Theoretical Physics in Madrid) is more dismissive: “[T]he apparent random walk nature of the Liouville function is a well known fact in analytic number theory. It is heuristic and, according to most expectations, unlikely to be true. The reason being that the prime numbers are deterministic objects, not random, as well as the Liouville and other arithmetic functions. These objects seem to behave randomly but they do not. Their apparent random nature has been very useful in the past to propose ‘conjectures’ but it is impossible to use them to ‘prove’ anything about the primes or related quantities." The third report is the only report from a mathematician: a distinguished Polish number theorist. His name is Wladyslaw Narkiewicz. He is 85 years old. His email correspondence with Kumar Eswaran is nothing short of moving. He makes the same points again and again, connected to the arguments we have already given, so there is little point in repeating them. What is touching is the gentleness which imbues his exchanges with Kumar, reiterating his points patiently but firmly. He seems to feel Kumar’s desperation, his need to be right, and one cannot read this exchange (on both sides) without being emotionally affected: “I looked again thoroughly at your text and your explications. I subsumed my thoughts about your paper in the attached file. Unfortunately there is a deep hole in your argumentation, when you assert without any proof that a theorem in the theory of random sequences implies a bound for the sums of values of the function λ(n) . . . If you really have a proof of your assertion, then I would like to be able to see it. Do not worry about this situation. Several excellent mathematicians tried without success to prove Riemann Hypothesis. With every good wish." Those last lines might look like a sarcastic putdown, but in the overall context of the correspondence, they are not. Setting that aside, Kumar Eswaran’s reply is illuminating (edited very lightly for obvious typos): “As far as I can tell, I have responded to almost all your queries. [Our note: he has not.] Now I wish to explain, in my own way of thinking, my surmise that the RH is true. In order that you will appreciate what I say I now request you to think from my point of view i.e. the point of view of a Theoretical Physicist which is somewhat different from the point of view of a strict Number Theorist as I will presently explain. I request you to read the rest of this email and try to empathise with my point of view. In mathematics a Mathematician starts from some initial premise. . . a geometer starts from (say) Euclid’s Axioms and a Number theorist starts from say Peano’s axioms and the axioms of logic, [and] with these as a basis the Geometrician/Mathematician discovers new theorems which are essentially logical deductions from the Axioms. But a Theoretical Physicist starts from the study of a phenomenon as observed in nature or as viewed in an experiment. He then tries to formulate ‘laws’ which can explain these phenomena. Of course there are limitations in both viewpoints. The Mathematician can never discover anything that lies beyond the reach of his axioms (this aspect has been spectacularly demonstrated by Godel by his Incompleteness Theorem) and the Physicist can never discover any “Law" without having had the opportunity to view the phenomena or conduct an experiment." It may be best to refrain from comment here. Suffice it to note that Professors Narkiewicz and Eswaran part on amicable terms. Here is an extract from the mathematician’s last email to Kumar: “Although our views on your result are somewhat different I want you to know that I enjoyed our discussion which showed that the notion of a proof may have different interpretations. I want also to stress that the word ‘heuristic’ has no negative meaning. A lot of work of really great mathematicians has been performed in a heuristic way. This applies not only to old times (Euler, Laplace, the Bernoullis, . . . ) but also to recent times. Because of the pandemic I sit at home since three weeks, but this permits me to read all the books which I bought a time ago and did not have time to read them earlier. I am trying also to do some mathematics but my age limits my possibilities." Ah Professor Narkiewicz, you speak for many more of us than you know. So if we set aside the machinations of the “Expert Committee" on Kumar Eswaran’s purported proof of the Hypothesis, there is another story here, which deserves a separate telling: what constitutes proof ? That rather gracious concession by Professor Narkiewicz might enliven the hearts of many a physicist (and certainly many an economist!), but Gödelian uncertainties notwithstanding, your authors remain willingly and firmly marooned on the shores of mathematical logic. In our reading of this entire debate, some concluding remarks come to mind. First, has Kumar Eswaran’s work really been ignored by 1,196+ mathematicians? We think not. The error is there even for us to see, and there is absolutely no doubt in our minds that any mathematician would see it immediately. They might be too lazy, or timid, or time-consumed to respond, simply to point out obvious lacunae. This entire study constitutes one data point, but a cautionary one. There may be statistical discrimination in academia, whereby a submitted paper from Hyderabad or La Paz or Beijing is given short shrift. But one needs to understand such statistical discrimination within the contours of a world that is absolutely jam-packed with the need to process information, and to do so quickly. It is possible, and especially so in the more imprecise disciplines such as Economics, that statistical discrimination is over-used. But this case, to us, is emphatically not a case in point. It remains an open question, though, as to whether all intellectual genius must inevitably reveal itself. Second, Bernhard Riemann’s conjecture deserves the deepest respect, as do the many deep problems in mathematics, philosophy and logic that confront us, and that we often brush aside with a flippant wave of our smartphones (which ironically owe their existence to the solutions of some of these problems). This is not a political discussion, or a question of the future of the Sreenidhi Institute’s fund-raising or fee-charging capabilities. It is appalling to see how the “Expert Committee" reacted to the fact that only 4 of their 1200+ stepped forward. Is there not something to be gleaned from that last observation? Might it be the case that over 1000 eminent mathematicians would simply ignore a deeply structured attempted proof of one of the greatest conjectures in Mathematics? Might there not be something to be inferred from this stony refusal, or should we rather believe that there is a grand conspiracy of silence directed against scientists from the developing world? Dr. Mahhe, the entrepreneurial Chairman of the Sreenidhi Group, whom we have heard from before, is asking to be heard again: “[T]he status of the Riemann Hypothesis in mathematics is so great that very few were willing to take the risk of openly venturing an opinion on the correctness or the incorrectness of the proof. Only seven scholars responded. The author of the proof responded to these comments, where warranted." Words fail us in seeking an adequate response to this particular inference, except to observe that it is a truly entrepreneurial one. And finally, there is the question of the three outside reports that were, in fact, sent to the Committee. What of the many doubts and queries that were raised by four individuals in their three painstaking reports? In concluding this article, we can only let the Committee speak for itself, repeating and extending the quote that we started with: "After careful perusal of all the arguments in the proof and the reviews from the experts who have responded, the Committee felt that there are no negative arguments that could technically invalidate the proof and therefore have arrived at the firm conclusion that the proof by Dr. K. Eswaran is both credible and acceptable and that the RH can be considered as proven. The Committee recommends that the detailed unexpurgated Reviews along with the comments of K. Eswaran and his papers and the findings of this Expert Committee, be compiled in the form of an e-book with a suitable Preface, be made available to the world’s scientific community for their perusal and for the historical record." We leave you, dear Reader, to judge whether the “firm conclusion" of the Committee is justified. ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (This is the first draft of an article with Rahul Roy, Professor at the Indian Statistical Institute in New Delhi. Rahul has kindly allowed me to publish this first iteration while he works on the second. We will be updating soon.)
