=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Frederick MacMonnies - Olympedia]
Although MacMonnies was best known for his monumental works, he also created small sculptures and medals. In 1932 he won the silver medal with his Lindbergh Medal in the Category Medals and Reliefs within the sculpturing competition at the Los Angeles Games.
URL: https://www.olympedia.org/athletes/921564

[Frederick William MacMonnies - Wikipedia]
Frederick William MacMonnies (September 28, 1863 – March 22, 1937) was the best known expatriate American sculptor of the Beaux-Arts school, as successful and lauded in France as he was in the United States.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Frederick_William_MacMonnies

[Frederick William MacMonnies - Continuum]
He also received recognition as a painter, including a 1901 honorable mention at the Paris Salon for his first entry. He was an early member of the American Academy of Arts and Letters, and won a silver medal in the art competition at the 1932 Summer Olympics.
URL: https://artcontinuum.blog/artists-index/mac-frederick-william-macmonnies/

[Frederick William MacMonnies - Olympics.com]
Until the outbreak of World War I, MacMonnies lived mostly in France, where he received several awards, later returning to the United States. In 1932 he won the silver medal with his Lindbergh Medal in the Category Medals and Reliefs within the sculpturing competition at the Los Angeles Games.
URL: https://www.olympics.com/en/athletes/frederick-william-macmonnies

[Art competitions a forgotten part of Olympic history]
Feb 3, 2026 · Frederick William MacMonnies represented the United Stated in 1932, winning a silver medal in the category of reliefs and medallions for his Lindbergh Medal. Several of his works, including the sculptures Pan of Rohallion and Young Faun with Heron are part of the SLAM collection.
URL: https://www.slam.org/blog/art-competitions-a-forgotten-part-of-olympic-history/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Frederick MacMonnies - Olympedia] ---
Frederick MacMonnies got his first lessons in painting from his mother, a descendant of the famous painter Benjamin West. Frederick was an apprentice to the famous sculptor Augustus Saint-Gaudens and initially studied in New York at the National Academy of Design and Art. He later turned to sculpture, while in Paris studying at the École nationale supérieure des beaux-arts de Paris and at the Art Academy in München. Until the outbreak of World War I, MacMonnies lived mostly in France, where he received several awards, later returning to New York. As one of the most prominent representatives of the American Beaux Arts movement MacMonnies created numerous monuments, reminiscent of events in American history. He designed the largest stone monument of the time, erected in Meaux (France). His second wife was his former student, Alice Jones (1875-1963), sister of tennis players Marion and Georgina Jones, who had participated in the 1900 Olympic Games. MacMonnies died of pneumonia after having run into financial difficulties in the 1929 stock market crash. In 1924 he was a member of the jury of the art competitions. Although MacMonnies was best known for his monumental works, he also created small sculptures and medals. In 1932 he won the silver medal with his Lindbergh Medal in the Category Medals and Reliefs within the sculpturing competition at the Los Angeles Games. The medal was commissioned by the Society of Medalists in 1931 without specifying a specific topic. The artist chose Charles Lindbergh’s transatlantic flight in May 1927. The front shows a portrait of the aviator, the back shows a lone eagle (inscription “Lone Eagle”) fighting storms and lightning and the defated figure of death. The gold-plated bronze medal has a diameter of 7.3 cm. There was, however, a version with a diameter of only 3.2 mm.


--- [Frederick William MacMonnies - Wikipedia] ---
Frederick William MacMonnies (September 28, 1863 – March 22, 1937) was the best known expatriate American sculptor of the Beaux-Arts school, as successful and lauded in France as he was in the United States. He was also a highly accomplished painter and portraitist. He was born in Brooklyn Heights, Brooklyn, New York and died in New York City.
Three of MacMonnies's best-known sculptures are Nathan Hale, Bacchante and Infant Faun, and Diana.


--- [Frederick William MacMonnies - Continuum] ---
Biography Frederick William MacMonnies (September 28, 1863 – March 22, 1937) was an expatriate American sculptor of the Beaux-Arts school, as successful and lauded in France as he was in the United States. He was also a highly accomplished painter and portraitist. He was born in Brooklyn Heights, Brooklyn, New York and died in New York City. In 1880 MacMonnies apprenticed under Augustus Saint-Gaudens, and was soon promoted to studio assistant. It was there that he met architect Stanford White, who would advocate for him throughout his early career. MacMonnies studied at the National Academy of Design and The Art Students League of New York. In 1884 MacMonnies traveled to Paris to study sculpture at the École des Beaux-Arts, twice winning the highest award given to foreign students. In 1888 he opened a studio in Paris and began to create some of his most famous sculptures, which he submitted annually to the Paris Salon. In his atelier, he mentored such notable artists as Janet Scudder and Mary Foote. He was taught at the Académie Vitti in 1904. In 1888 Stanford White recommended MacMonnies for two major commissions, a decorative Pan fountain sculpture for Rohallion, the New Jersey mansion of banker Edward Adams, and a work for ambassador Joseph H. Choate, at Naumkeag, in Stockbridge, Massachusetts. In 1889 an Honorable Mention at the Paris Salon for his Diana led to further and more public American commissions, including spandrel reliefs for Stanford White’s permanent Washington Arch, New York. In 1891, he designed the statue of James S. T. Stranahan in Brooklyn. That same year, he was awarded the commission for the Columbian Fountain, the centerpiece of the 1893 World’s Columbian Exposition in Chicago: the sculpture of Columbia in her Grand Barge of State, in the vast central fountain of the Court of Honor, was an iconic figure at the heart of the American Beaux-Arts movement. This large decorative fountain piece became a focal point at the Exposition and established MacMonnies as one of the important sculptors of the time. MacMonnies also created the 8′ tall statue for the Nathan Hale Memorial, erected in 1893 in New York City. It now stands near where historians believe American Revolutionary War hero Nathan Hale was executed by hanging. Numerous copies exist, including at The Metropolitan Museum in New York, the Art Museum at Princeton University, the National Gallery of Art, Phoenix Art Museum, Orlando Museum of Art, and the Mead Art Museum at Amherst College. Until the outbreak of World War I, when he was forced to leave Paris, MacMonnies travelled annually to the United States to see dealers and patrons, returning to Paris to work on his commissions. His long-term residence was at Giverny. In 1894, Stanford White brought another prestigious commission, for three bronze groups for the Soldiers and Sailors Memorial Arch in Brooklyn’s Grand Army Plaza. He devoted eight years to these complex figure groups. MacMonnies also continued to paint portraits, and his 1904 full length painting of his student Mabel Conkling was described by the Philadelphia Inquirer to be his “finest… yet”. MacMonnies was commissioned to create a work celebrating the Old West, depicting Kit Carson, begun in 1906 and unveiled in 1911. It marks the end of the Smoky Hill Trail used by gold prospectors en route to Colorado. Commissioned in 1908, he sculpted the Princeton Battle Monument, a collaboration with architects Carrere & Hastings. Commemorating the first major colonial victory in the Revolutionary War, it features a figure group on a heroic scale. It is an allegorical depiction of the struggle, surmounted by an equestrian relief of Washington. Returning to New York after 1915, he completed a colossal group, Civic Virtue, a fountain for New York City Hall. It was the object of criticism and threats of censorship. The statue was moved in 1941 to Queens Borough Hall and then to Green-Wood Cemetery in Brooklyn. In 1917, MacMonnies was commissioned create a memorial sculpture for the First Battle of the Marne, to reciprocate the generosity of France in giving the United States the Statue of Liberty. MacMonnies’ work, La Liberté éplorée (“The Tearful Liberty”), located in Meaux, France, is over seven stories tall, at 22 metres (72 ft). The monument was erected by American architect Thomas Hastings and completed in 1932. At the time of its dedication, it was the world’s largest stone monument. In 2011, the Musée de la Grande Guerre du pays de Meaux opened next to the monument. The World War I Memorial in Atlantic City, New Jersey, includes a 9-foot (2.7 m) bronze version of the statue. Selected to sculpt the fourth issue of the long running Society of Medalists in 1931, MacMonnies chose to celebrate Charles Lindbergh’s solo Trans-Atlantic flight of 1927. The powerful bust of Lindbergh on the obverse, combined with the reverse’s dramatic allegorical depiction of a lone eagle battling across the sea, mark this issue as one of the more popular of the series. MacMonnies was highly successful and the recipient of numerous awards. At the Paris Salon, he was awarded the first Gold Medal ever given to an American sculptor. We was elected to the rank of Chevalier in the French Légion d’honneur in 1896, and awarded Grand Prize at the Paris Exposition of 1900. He also received recognition as a painter, including a 1901 honorable mention at the Paris Salon for his first entry. He was an early member of the American Academy of Arts and Letters, and won a silver medal in the art competition at the 1932 Summer Olympics. Nationality: American Dates: September 28, 1863 – March 22, 1937 Occupation: Sculptor, Painter Schools attended: Art Students League, National Academy of Design, École des Beaux-Arts, Académie Vitti Taught at: Student of: Teacher of: Janet Scudder, Mary Foote


--- [Frederick William MacMonnies - Olympics.com] ---
Frederick MacMonnies got his first lessons in painting from his mother, who had also studied painting. He studied in the United States as an apprentice to the famous sculptor Augustus Saint-Gaudens, and also studied at the National Academy of Design and Art. He later turned to sculpture, while in Paris studying at the École nationale supérieure des beaux-arts de Paris. Until the outbreak of World War I, MacMonnies lived mostly in France, where he received several awards, later returning to the United States. In 1932 he won the silver medal with his Lindbergh Medal in the Category Medals and Reliefs within the sculpturing competition at the Los Angeles Games. As one of the most prominent representatives of the American Beaux Arts movement MacMonnies created numerous monuments, reminiscent of events in American history. He designed the largest stone monument of the time, erected in Meaux (France). His second wife was his former student, Alice Jones, sister of tennis players Marion and Georgina Jones, who had participated in the 1900 Olympic Games. Athlete Olympic Results Content You may like


--- [Art competitions a forgotten part of Olympic history] ---
Though its roots date to ancient Greece, the first modern, international Olympic Games started in 1896 in Athens. From the earliest planning stages, a somewhat unlikely (by current standards) event was in the running: artistic competitions. Pierre de Coubertin—often called the founder of the modern Olympics—planned to include artistic competitions in addition to athletics, inspired by the ancient games, which included heraldry and trumpeting competitions alongside sporting contests. After years of planning and preparation, the first Olympic art competitions were held at the 1912 games in Stockholm, Sweden. The art competitions remained a fixture of the Olympic Games until the late 1940s. After the competitions, the artworks were returned to the competitors, who were free to do with them as they pleased, including selling them. A majority of the competing and winning artworks have been lost to time. While the Saint Louis Art Museum doesn’t have any known Olympic entries, some of the winning artists have other works in the Museum’s collection. Renée Sintenis represented Germany in 1928, receiving a bronze medal for her sculpture Footballeur. Another of her sculptures, Daphne, is on view in Caro Nichols Holmes Gallery 214. Frederick William MacMonnies represented the United Stated in 1932, winning a silver medal in the category of reliefs and medallions for his Lindbergh Medal. Several of his works, including the sculptures Pan of Rohallion and Young Faun with Heron are part of the SLAM collection. Acee Blue Eagle, whose Love Flute Song was recently on view in the 2024 SLAM exhibition Native American Art of the 20th Century: The William P. Healey Collection, also entered the 1932 games representing the United States. His work entitled Indian Ball Game received an honorable mention in the watercolor and drawing category. Wilhelm Hunt Diederich entered both the painting and sculpture competitions on behalf of the United States in 1932, receiving an honorable mention for his statue Polo. His Salamander Fire Screen entered SLAM’s collection in 2009. The first Olympic art competitions, at the 1912 games, had only five categories: architecture, literature, music, painting, and sculpture, sometimes referred to as “The Pentathlon of the Muses.” There were two main requirements for submission: Entries could not have been exhibited prior to the competition, and all entries had to be about sports. Interestingly, the athletics depicted did not have to be sports that competed at the Olympics. The first gold medal for painting ever awarded went to Italian Carlo Pellegrini for a tripartite wall frieze titled Winter Sports some 12 years before the first Olympic winter games. After the first games, which saw limited entries, mostly by Europeans, the arts competitions were subdivided into multiple categories starting in 1920, when the games resumed after a hiatus during World War I. The judges had found it difficult to judge a medallion against a sculpture, a drawing against a painting, or a score for an orchestra against a piece for one vocalist. As with athletics, new competitions were added and others removed at each Olympics. The art competitions faced difficulty throughout. The judges sometimes felt that the entries received were not at the level they expected and would subsequently decline to hand out awards in some categories. For example, the 1928 games saw a silver medal awarded for dramatic literature to Lauro De Bosis’s Icaro, but no awards at the gold or bronze level. Rudolf Simonsen received a bronze medal for his orchestral composition Symphony No. 2, Hellas, but no gold or silver medals were given out in that category. Other years saw so many quality entries that honorable mentions were employed in addition to gold, silver, and bronze medals. In 1932, the Statues category winners included three medalists and seven honorable mentions. From the modern Olympics inception, and until the 1980s, the International Olympic Committee maintained a strict rule that all competitors must be amateurs. Any athlete found to have accepted sponsorships or competed for money was disqualified or stripped of their medals. With artists, composers, and writers, this distinction became harder to make. Interpretation of this rule caused friction among IOC members. Further, there was disagreement over who would select the entries for the competitions: Most countries felt their own Olympic committees should have the final decision, but some members of the IOC thought they should have a say in all selections. Infighting among committee members eventually led to the end of the art competitions after the 1948 Olympics. Efforts were made to revive the art competitions in 1952 and 1956 but failed due to lack of agreement among IOC members. For more information, check out The Forgotten Olympic Art Competitions: The Story of the Olympic Art Competitions of the 20th Century by Richard Stanton.
