=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Happy Valley's Alec Secareanu The Crown link to private love life]
Feb 2, 2023 · Happy Valley actor Alec Secareanu is best recognised for his role as Gheorghe Ionescu in God’s Own Country, alongside The Crown star Josh O’Connor. The star is back on our screens playing the role of Halifax criminal Darius Knezevic on the BBC hit crime drama.
URL: https://www.examinerlive.co.uk/news/tv/happy-valley-darius-knezevic-actor-26144346

[Happy Valley: This Is Where You've Seen Darius Knezevic Before]
Feb 2, 2023 · Darius Knezevic is played by 38-year-old Romanian actor Alex Secareanu. What else has Alec Secareanu been in? Happy Valley isn’t the first time actor Alec has found himself on the Yorkshire moors.
URL: https://graziadaily.co.uk/life/tv-and-film/happy-valley-darius-knezevic-alec-secarenu/

[BBC Happy Valley cast: Who plays the Knezevics?]
Jan 22, 2023 · During the episode set to air on Sunday, January 22, fans of the drama will be introduced to gang leader Darius alongside character Zeljko. The former is played Alec Secareanu, who viewers...
URL: https://www.walesonline.co.uk/lifestyle/tv/bbc-happy-valley-cast-who-26032345

[List of Happy Valley characters]
Happy Valley is a British (BBC) crime drama television series that is set and filmed in the Calder Valley. The series stars Sarah Lancashire and Siobhan ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Happy_Valley_characters

[Happy Valley (TV Series 2014–2023) - Full cast & crew - IMDb]
Happy Valley (TV Series 2014–2023) - Cast and crew credits, including actors, actresses, directors, writers and more.
URL: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt3428912/fullcredits/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Happy Valley's Alec Secareanu The Crown link to private love life] ---
Happy Valley Darius Knezevic actor Alec Secareanu from The Crown link to private love life Alec's role as Darius Knezevic is arguably his most significant role in a TV series to date Happy Valley actor Alec Secareanu is best recognised for his role as Gheorghe Ionescu in God’s Own Country, alongside The Crown star Josh O’Connor. The star is back on our screens playing the role of Halifax criminal Darius Knezevic on the BBC hit crime drama. Alongside his brother he runs a drug-running and people-trafficking operation, and are behind most of the crime in the local area. READ MORE: House prices in Yorkshire's Happy Valley town drop with fears it's now 'tourist trap' In recent episodes fans were on the edge of their seats after Tommy escaped from prison and successfully made it to a safehouse with a little help from an old friend. The actor’s first TV role was back in 2016, when he starred in the long-running Romanian TV series Daria, Iubirea Mea. Following several more appearances on Romanian TV shows over the course of a decade, he landed his big break when he played the Romanian migrant worker in God’s Own Country. He’s also no stranger to a police drama, starring in five episodes of the BBC’s Baptiste in 2019 playing another baddie, Constantine. Last year he appeared in HBO workplace drama Ruxx, where he played Andrei, a PR expert helping out lead protagonist Ruxandra Rusu. However, his role as Darius Knezevic is arguably his most significant role in a TV series to date. Is Alec married and does he have children? When it comes to Alec’s love life the star prefers to keep it away from the spotlight. He is so private that there are no records of any past relationships and it is understood that the star is single. BAFTA Nomination God’s Own Country’ was nominated for Outstanding British Film of the Year in 2018. The romantic drama film written and directed by Francis Lee in his feature directorial debut. Alec starred in the film that followed a love story about a farmer’s son and a Romanian migrant worker. The actor and his co-star Josh O’Connor worked on local farms to prepare for their roles. Read next: - I spent the day in the real Happy Valley and it's a world away from the TV show - Emily Atack breaks down in tears on This Morning as Holly Willoughby consoles her - Martin Lewis urges everyone with a mobile phone to act now and send two texts to cut bills - Love Island’s fans ‘stress’ as show reveals shock recoupling after Tom and Zara’s explosive row - Happy Valley star Sarah Lancashire finds herself on wrong side of the law as she's slapped with parking fine


--- [Happy Valley: This Is Where You've Seen Darius Knezevic Before] ---
There’s no doubt that Sarah Lancashire and James Norton are the standout stars of Happy Valley, but its cast of supporting actors isn’t too shabby either. For some, like not-so-little Rhys Connah, the BAFTA-winning show was their break-out role, but others are more recognisable. And if you’ve been wondering where you’ve seen gangster Darius Knezevic before, here's everything you need to know... Who plays Darius Knezevic in Happy Valley? Head of the crime family that has menaced the inhabitants of Hebden Bridge with their nefarious scheming. Darius Knezevic is played by 38-year-old Romanian actor Alex Secareanu. What else has Alec Secareanu been in? Happy Valley isn’t the first time actor Alec has found himself on the Yorkshire moors. In 2017 he starred in the critically-acclaimed God’s Own Country, named after the northern county’s nickname, where he played a Romanian farm hand who came to England to work on a family-run sheep farm for lambing season and embarked on a secret sexual relationship with the family’s son, Johnny (played by The Crown’s Josh O’Connor). He's also starred in a number of films from his native Romania, 2020 horror film Amulet starring Imelda Staunton and Spanish language film Caníbal in 2013. He’s also no stranger to a police drama, starring in five episodes of the BBC’s Baptiste in 2019 playing another baddie, Constantine. And while he’s most often cast as the rugged outsider thanks to his smouldering eyes and impressive facial fuzz, he appeared clean shaven in last year’s HBO workplace drama Ruxx (think Succession, but based in Budapest), where he played Andrei, a shrewd and sexy PR expert helping out lead protagonist Ruxandra Rusu. Alec Secareanu Instagram You can find Alec on the ‘gram at @alecsecareanu, but annoyingly he doesn’t appear to be too active on the site, with not one single grid post for Happy Valley despite it being hands down the biggest thing on telly this year (so far, obviously).


--- [BBC Happy Valley cast: Who plays the Knezevics?] ---
BBC Happy Valley cast: Who plays the Knezevics? Who plays Darius and who plays Zeljko? Everything you need to know about the cast members as Happy Valley airs episode four Happy Valley viewers will finally be introduced to the Knezevics during episode four of the popular BBC One drama. The notorious crime family has been teased ever since the first series of Happy Family, having caused trouble for Catherine Cawood, who is played by Sarah Lancashire, and the police force from the very beginning. During the episode set to air on Sunday, January 22, fans of the drama will be introduced to gang leader Darius alongside character Zeljko. The former is played Alec Secareanu, who viewers might recognise as Gheorghe from God's Own Country, he has also starred in movies The Amulet and The Bike Thief. Alec also played Constantin in the popular television series Baptiste, and stars in HBO's Ruxx. Meanwhile, viewers might recognise Greg Kolpakchi, who plays Zeljko, from ITV's Litvinenko. Read more: BBC The One Show viewers distracted during Happy Valley interview with James Norton Greg has also starred in The Walk In and A Spy Among Friends on ITVX. He has also had roles in X-Men: First Class and Peaky Blinders. BBC bosses have remained tight-lipped on what to expect from the remaining three episodes of Happy Valley. A synopsis for episode 4 simply reads: "As Tommy’s big day approaches, Catherine becomes suspicious, and Ryan finds a new way to defy her." So far fans of the West Yorkshire-set drama have been bowled over by the new series, which is also the last. Nearly seven years have passed since Happy Valley was last on screens but so far it has been worth the wait. During the lastest episode, Sarah was been praised as "absolutely phenomenal" by viewers following dramatic scenes that saw Sarah’s character confront her sister Clare in a cafe, for taking her grandson Ryan to visit his father Tommy Lee Royce in prison without her knowledge. You can read more on this here. Happy Valley continues on Sunday at 9pm on BBC One. For more showbiz and television stories sign up to our newsletter here. READ NEXT: - Doctor Who cast: Fans react as Welsh actor joins line-up for new series - ITVX The Reunion cast, plot, location and episodes as Ioan Gruffudd drama lands - How many episodes of Maternal on ITV1 are there? - Loose Women's Gloria Hunniford shares 'scary' health battle as she returns to show - Love Island 2023 claims to fame from acting roles to famous family and TV appearances


--- [List of Happy Valley characters] ---
Happy Valley is a British (BBC) crime drama television series that is set and filmed in the Calder Valley. The series stars Sarah Lancashire and Siobhan Finneran, and features a main and recurring cast.


--- [Happy Valley (TV Series 2014–2023) - Full cast & crew - IMDb] ---
- Richard Cox• 2014–2023 - Jamie Pearson• 2014 - Emma Oxley• 2014 - Mark Elliott• 2016 - Ulrike Münch• 2023 - Beverley Keogh• 2014–2023 - Susie Cullen• 2014 - John Collins• 2016 - Jordan McHale• 2023 - David Bowes• 2014 - Ian Holmes• 2014–2023 - Scott MacIntyrespecial effects supervisor (as Scott McIntyre) (2014) - Tom Williamsdirector of photography: second unit / first assistant camera: "a" camera / additional camera operator: dailies (uncredited) / camera operator: "b" camera: dailies (uncredited)• 2014–2016 - Sam Smithardsecond assistant camera: "b" camera, dailies / focus puller: a cam, 2nd unit (uncredited)• 2016–2023 - Phil Peaseunit medic (2014) Contribute to this page Suggest an edit or add missing content
