=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Moon Jelly - University of Puget Sound]
Although they all look the same, the sexes are separate. In most jellyfish, eggs and sperm are merely shed into the water during breeding episodes, but in moon jellies, the eggs lodge in the oral arms, where the planula larva develops.
URL: https://www.pugetsound.edu/puget-sound-museum-natural-history/exhibits/marine-panel/moon-jelly

[Moon Jelly - Shedd Aquarium]
The mouth does triple duty: food goes in, waste goes out, and eggs or sperm pass through. The most substantial part of a moon jelly's anatomy are horseshoe-shaped structures in the bell—its reproductive organs.
URL: https://www.sheddaquarium.org/moon-jelly

[Moon Jelly - Georgia Aquarium]
Eggs are fertilized internally in females by sperm released by males into nearby water. Moon jellies have a three-stage life cycle: polyp, ephyrae then medusa. Embryos develop on special grooves in the adult female’s arms. Young are released into the water as free-swimming larvae. Polyps are formed once the free-swimming larvae settle.
URL: https://www.georgiaaquarium.org/animal/moon-jelly/

[Moon jelly - Animals | Monterey Bay Aquarium]
The moon jelly is very plentiful. However, plastic bags that end up in the ocean often look like jellies to animals that depend on these drifting creatures for food. Thousands of turtles and birds die each year after swallowing indigestible wads of plastic mistaken for jellies. You can help by eliminating single-use plastics in your daily routine.
URL: https://www.montereybayaquarium.org/animals/animals-a-to-z/moon-jelly

[Jellyfish Reproduction Facts - Eggs, Sperm & Cycle]
Moon jellies, however, use a different process: their eggs become lodged in pits on the oral arms, which form a temporary brood chamber to accommodate fertilization.
URL: https://animalcorner.org/jellyfish-reproduction/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Moon Jelly - University of Puget Sound] ---
Moon Jelly (Aurelia labiata) The tentacles are covered with cnidocytes (nematocysts) that, when they contact potential prey, spring open and inject a poison dart into the animal, quickly paralyzing it. KINGDOM Animalia - PHYLUM Cnidaria - CLASS Scyphozoa - ORDER Semaeostomeae - FAMILY Ulmaridae Tiny crustaceans and other drifting planktonic animals are common prey, but fish are taken by larger species. The tentacles then contract, drawing the prey up to the frilly oral arms, where they are digested. Nutrients move from there through the entire body by diffusion. Jellyfish have a hydrostatic skeleton, supported by the water within, that maintains their shape. They move by rhythmic pulsation of the bell, slowly pushing them through the water, but much of their lifetime movement is nothing more than drifting with currents. Sometimes this drifting brings many thousands together into the same area, producing a jellyfish bloom that may involve one animal per cubic meter over large stretches of ocean. These blooms may also be a consequence of unusually high prey concentrations that allow such high population density. Moon jellies are among the most commonly seen members of this group. Almost transparent, they are made visible as they float by because of the four-leaf clover figure made by their four rings of gonads. Similar species occur throughout the oceans of the world, easily seen from docks and fishing boats and sometimes washing up on shore. Jellyfish are fine examples of life cycles that involve alternation of generations, the polyp stage and the medusa stage. Although they all look the same, the sexes are separate. In most jellyfish, eggs and sperm are merely shed into the water during breeding episodes, but in moon jellies, the eggs lodge in the oral arms, where the planula larva develops. The planula, covered with cilia that move it around, eventually settles onto a firm surface and develops into a polyp, an animal with a stalk, a mouth, and tentacles much like a tiny sea anemone. After a while, the polyp begins to bud, and it buds off tiny medusae, immature jellyfish that swim away and enter the plankton, starting the cycle again. Jellyfish would seem to be uninteresting to predators, nothing more than a bag of water, but they apparently have enough nutrients in them to be valuable prey to such disparate animals as ocean sunfish and leatherback turtles. Even salmon eat some of them.


--- [Moon Jelly - Shedd Aquarium] ---
Moon Jelly If you look closely into this jelly's moonlike bell, you’ll see it doesn’t have bones, blood, or even a brain. Jellies are, in fact, 95 percent seawater. It’s a body plan that’s worked for 500 million years. Simple body, complex tasks Instead of a brain, a jelly has a nerve net. A simple system of nerves and muscles lets a jelly pulse its bell to swim up or down as well as drift with the current. Instead of blood to carry oxygen, its thin skin absorbs it from the surrounding ocean water. The mouth does triple duty: food goes in, waste goes out, and eggs or sperm pass through. The most substantial part of a moon jelly's anatomy are horseshoe-shaped structures in the bell—its reproductive organs. Passive, but well-armed, predators A short fringe of hairlike tentacles rim the moon jelly's bell, and frilly oral arms dangle from the bell's center. Both are loaded with venomous stinging cells. When krill, larvae, or other tiny zooplankton bump into the jelly's appendages, the stinging cells fire dartlike nematocysts into the prey. Stunned prey is easier—and safer—for a fragile jelly to eat. Like floating flypaper, the mucus-coated bell also catches drifting prey. All food moves conveyorlike from the stinging tentacles to the oral arms, up into the bell and to stomach pouches located below the reproductive organs. Moons on the menu Moon jellies are the primary prey for many other large jellies. They are also eaten by tuna, sunfish, some sharks, seabirds and all seven species of sea turtles, especially the huge leatherbacks. Despite jellies' high water content, the gelatinous mesoglea, which gives the bell its structure, is a source of protein.


--- [Moon Jelly - Georgia Aquarium] ---
- Size Maximum diameter of 2 feet (61 cm) - Diet Zooplankton, small shrimps, fish eggs and larvae - Range Worldwide in temperate seas - Habitat Surface water over reefs and along the coast Physical Characteristics - Translucent and whitish in color, often shaded with pink or blue. - The main parts include a shallow dome-shaped bell that can reach 2 feet (61 cm) in diameter, with numerous short, fine, fringe-like tentacles around the margin. - In open water, extends tentacles that hang down like a veil. The four white, horseshoe-shaped structures that can be seen through its translucent bell are reproductive organs. - Four oral arms hang down from the center of the bottom surface of the bell. These arms are not always obvious. Diet / Feeding - Diet consists primarily of zooplankton, including small shrimps, fish eggs and larvae. - Collects food on the upper and lower surfaces of the bell where cilia carry it, entrapped in mucus, to the margin. Food collects in small pockets, where it is removed by the tips of four long arms that then transfer the food to the gastrovascular cavity located in the middle of the underside of the bell. Range / Habitat - Occurs worldwide in temperate seas. - Found in surface waters, often over reefs and along the coast. Reproduction & Growth - Eggs are fertilized internally in females by sperm released by males into nearby water. - Moon jellies have a three-stage life cycle: polyp, ephyrae then medusa. - Embryos develop on special grooves in the adult female’s arms. Young are released into the water as free-swimming larvae. - Polyps are formed once the free-swimming larvae settle. - When the polyps undergo an environmental change they bud off ephyrae. The ephyrae will feed off of plankton until it reaches adult size, which is known as the medusa. Conservation Status - “Not Evaluated” on the IUCN Red List. Additional Information - Commonly seen washed up on beaches. - Principal food for leatherbacks and several other species of sea turtles, as well as other marine creatures (including other jellies). - Many marine animals die every year ingesting floating plastic bags, mistaking them for moon jellies or other jelly species. - Despite not having eyes to see, or a brain to think, jellies have adaptations that allow them to orientate themselves within the water column. For example, jellies have rhopalia, which are small sensory structures. In the moon jelly, they lie all around the bell. They also have specialized light-sensing structures called ocelli, and utilize statoliths, (tiny internal granules) to perceive gravity. Sources - Seashore Animals of the Southeast. Ruppert, E. E. and Fox, R. S. pgs. 29-30 - Reef Creature Identification: Florida, Caribbean, Bahamas. Humann, P. and Deloach, N., pg. 84 - Guide to Marine Invertebrates, Alaska to Baja California. Gotshall, D. W., pg. 24 - Southeastern and Caribbean Seashores. Kaplan, E. H., pg. 207


--- [Moon jelly - Animals | Monterey Bay Aquarium] ---
37 captures 11 Oct 2020 - 29 Jan 2026 Dec JAN Feb 29 2025 2026 2027 success fail About this capture COLLECTED BY Collection: Save Page Now Outlinks TIMESTAMPS The Wayback Machine - http://web.archive.org/web/20260129093416/https://www.montereybayaquarium.org/animals/animals-a-to-z/moon-jelly Skip to Main Content


--- [Jellyfish Reproduction Facts - Eggs, Sperm & Cycle] ---
Individual Jellyfish are either male or female. The eggs and sperm develop in very colorful special areas called ‘Gonads’ inside the body wall. When all of the eggs and sperm are fully developed, they are released into the stomach and then through the mouth into the sea. In most cases, to reproduce, a male jellyfish releases his sperm into the surrounding water. The sperm then swims into the mouth of the female jellyfish, allowing the fertilization of the ova process to begin. Moon jellies, however, use a different process: their eggs become lodged in pits on the oral arms, which form a temporary brood chamber to accommodate fertilization. When the eggs are released into the sea they are fertilized by the sperm and continue to develop. As in all many-celled animals, the microscopic fertilized eggs begin a series of cell divisions which finally result in an embryo. However, the embryo does not develop directly into a baby jellyfish, but becomes a tiny, flattened creature called a ‘Planula’. The Planula, which is covered with rapidly beating hairlike cilia (thin, tail-like projections), is able to swim and may be carried a considerable distance by ocean currents during its short swimming period, lasting from a few hours to several days. The tiny Planula then makes its way toward the sea bottom where it actively looks for a suitable place to attach itself. At this point, a amazing series of events take place. Most jellyfish pass through two different body forms during their life cycle: Stage 1 The tiny Planula attached to a hard underwater object such as a rock or shell immediately begins to grow into a Polyp. The Polyp can live like this for several years capturing passing small shrimp-like organisms and other tiny marine animals to feed upon. At this stage, the polyps mouth and tentacles are facing upwards. Each Polyp produced from a Planula is able to reproduce new Polyps by a process called budding. Budding is the development of a completely new Polyp that comes from the body wall of the original creature, much like a branch growing from the side of a tree. These become detached as separate small Polyps. This is a type of asexual reproduction, since one Polyp gives rise to several ‘daughter’ polyps without eggs and sperm having to come together. This happens usually in the spring. Each Polyp begins a different sort of asexual reproduction. Stage 2 At the second stage, a series of grooves appear in the body of the Polyp, which gradually become deeper. Finally, the grooves become so deep, that they cut all the way though the Polyp body. Following this, a pile of disc-shaped structures resembling a stack of coins are formed. Each of the coins is an individual baby Jellyfish of the Medusa type. It can now break off from the stack and swim away to begin its own life as a floating Medusa. The Medusa has an umbrella shaped body called a bell and their tentacles hang from the border of the bell. This is the form most people recognise as a Jellyfish. Below is a diagram showing the process of transformation from a Planula to a Jellyfish’ The tiny Planula floating in the sea. Searching for a place to attach itself. Once attached, it feeds on passing, floating food. At this stage, the Polyps mouth and tentacles are facing upwards. Grooves appear and become deeper, eventually cutting through the Polyps body. A pile of disc-shaped structures emerge and break away. Each being a baby Jellyfish. At this stage it is called a Medusa and is the Jellyfish form we recognise in our oceans.
