=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Monsieur Mallah - Wikipedia]
He named the gorilla Monsieur Mallah and educated him for almost a decade before making him his personal assistant. The scientist's colleague, Niles Caulder, grows jealous of his work and arranges for the scientist to get caught in an explosion, which destroys the scientist's body.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Monsieur_Mallah

[Where In The World Are Monsieur Mallah And The Brain? (Spoilers)]
Feb 26, 2020 · A confrontation with Gorilla Grodd saw Grodd pick the Brain up and beat Mallah to death, smashing the Brain's protective hull in the process and killing him as well.
URL: https://bleedingcool.com/comics/recent-updates/monsieur-mallah-and-the-brain-spoilers/

[[Comic Excerpt] The Brain sees Mallah (Young Monsters in Love, #1)]
It ends up with Grodd beating Monsieur Mallah to death with the Brain, killing them both at the same time.
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/DCcomics/comments/15113bk/comic_excerpt_the_brain_sees_mallah_young/

[Mallah (Prime Earth) | DC Database | Fandom]
Origin
URL: https://dc.fandom.com/wiki/Mallah_(Prime_Earth)

[The Young Justice universe's origins for Monsieur Mallah, the Brain and ...]
Regarding Dolores Winters, IIRC she too became a brain swapping villain herself, since the villain who assisted the Humanite in stealing her body was actually a ...
URL: https://www.tumblr.com/annotated-dc/185546345647/crinosg-annotated-dc-the-young-justice


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Monsieur Mallah - Wikipedia] ---
Monsieur Mallah is a supervillain appearing in American comic books published by DC Comics. Created by Arnold Drake and Bruno Premiani, the character first appeared in Doom Patrol #86 (March 1964). He is the gorilla partner and servant of the disembodied supervillain Brain. The character serves as an enemy of the Doom Patrol, Justice League, and the Teen Titans.
Monsieur Mallah appears in the third season of the HBO Max series Doom Patrol, voiced by Jonathan Lipow.


--- [Where In The World Are Monsieur Mallah And The Brain? (Spoilers)] ---
Posted in: Comics, DC Comics, Recent Updates | Tagged: brain, Hell Arisen, monsieur mallah, red hood Where In The World Are Monsieur Mallah And The Brain? (Spoilers) Monsieur Mallah is a superintelligent anthropomorphic gorilla supervillain, and loyal servant to the Brain. Created by Arnold Drake and Bruno Premiani, they first appeared in Doom Patrol #86 in 1964, As a scientist, the man who would one day become known as the Brain performed experiments on animals to raise their intelligence. One of these was on a captured gorilla, raising its I.Q. to the genius-level of 178. He named the gorilla Monsieur Mallah and educated him for almost a decade before making him his personal assistant. The scientist's colleague, Niles Caulder grew jealous of his work and arranged for the scientist to get caught in an explosion, which destroyed the scientist's body. Only the brain survived, and Caulder planned on putting his brain in a robot body. Mallah rescued the scientist, taking his brain and transferring it to a computer network that kept it functioning. Now known simply as the Brain, the scientist and Mallah gathered together the criminal organization known as the Brotherhood of Evil in hopes of conquering the world and getting revenge on Caulder. Monsieur Mallah usually carries a machine gun. During Grant Morrison's Doom Patrol run, Mallah had the Brain placed in one of Robotman's bodies. In his new body, the Brain confessed to Mallah he was in love with him. Mallah revealed he felt the same way, and the two kissed. However, Robotman's body had developed sentience and vowed never to be enslaved by a brain again; when Mallah placed his lover in the body, he triggered a self-destruct mechanism, which exploded as they kissed. The two would later resurface, the Brain back to floating in a jar, without explanation. A confrontation with Gorilla Grodd saw Grodd pick the Brain up and beat Mallah to death, smashing the Brain's protective hull in the process and killing him as well. In the New 52, Brain and Monsieur Mallah first appear assisting Gorilla Grodd in taking over the remains of Central City at the time when The Black had taken over most of the world. And today, they are back. Not just once but twice. We see them captured and humiliated by the Joker. But in today's Red Hood: Outlaw #43, we meet a few old hands, from General Glory, created by Keith Giffen, JM DeMatteis for Justice League America in 1991 as a Captain America parody with exaggerated patriotic values. But now looking a little darker… And a return to the Justice League International classic style of superheroic interview vox pops. But no, not for Monsieur Mallah and the Brain a mere headshot. Instead… Neat trick when you are still imprisoned by the Joker. Don't worry, don't worry, Generation Zero: Gods Among Us is coming in May to make sense of it all. RED HOOD OUTLAW #43 (W) Scott Lobdell (A) ChrisCross, Scott Hanna (CA) Dan Mora We're living in strange times! Magic and metahumans are everywhere, but good and evil are easy to spot-right? The heroes of the world would never let anything happen to it…unless it happened already. Red Hood and the Outlaws are about to discover that the line between moral and immoral is very thin indeed.In Shops: Feb 26, 2020 SRP: $3.99YEAR OF THE VILLAIN HELL ARISEN #3 (OF 4) (W) James Tynion IV (A) Javi Fernandez (A/CA) Steve Epting Apex Lex Luthor's first run-in with the Infected didn't go as planned, and the Batman Who Laughs' influence is continuing to spread. Now Lex must find out who in the world can think like the Batman Who Laughs-and there are only two folks who come to mind. The first is Batman, who probably has his own ideas for Lex; the other is The Joker, who also likely has his own ideas, but who just maybe wants to see this twisted doppelgänger sent back to the Dark Multiverse he came from. It's a gamble Lex has to take, because the Infected are gearing up for round two! In Shops: Feb 26, 2020 SRP: $4.99 Red Hood: Outlaw #43 are Hell Arisen #3 are out today from DC Comics… I bought mine from Piranha Comics in Kingston-Upon-Thames. Piranha Comics is a small south London comic store chain with a small south-east store in Kingston-Upon Thames's market centre, which runs Magic The Gathering nights on Fridays, and a larger south-west store in Bromley, which also runs Magic nights and has an extensive back issue collection and online store. If you are in the neighbourhood, check them out.


--- [[Comic Excerpt] The Brain sees Mallah (Young Monsters in Love, #1)] ---
You've been blocked by network security. To continue, log in to your Reddit account or use your developer token If you think you've been blocked by mistake, file a ticket below and we'll look into it. Log in File a ticket


--- [Mallah (Prime Earth) | DC Database | Fandom] ---
| Looking for a different version of this character? | |---| | As a result of the New 52 in 2011, the entire line of DC characters was relaunched, incorporating properties belonging to the company's imprints: Wildstorm, Milestone, and Vertigo. As such, elements of this character's history have been altered in some way from the previous incarnation. For a complete list of all versions of this character, see our disambiguation page. | - I have hostages, weaponry and am not opposed to natural selection! - — Monsieur Mallah src Monsieur Mallah was the partner of the Brain and a member of the Brotherhood of Evil. History Origin Mallah was once a normal gorilla until he was taken into captivity by humans. He was experimented on by a French scientist who gave him a human intellect and the two formed a lasting friendship. One night there was a fire in the lab set by jealous competitors and the kindly scientist was fatally injured. Using what the scientist taught him he was able to save the scientist's brain by placing it in a jar. From that day forth the pair held scorn for humans who had only ever harmed them. The pair became members of the Brotherhood of Evil calling themselves Monsieur Mallah and the Brain and the team came into contact with the Teen Titans and the Doom Patrol as low grade villains who weren't taken very seriously by their enemies. Eventually the Brotherhood disbanded but Mallah and the Brain continued waging war against humanity. [4] Modern Villainy Brain and Monsieur Mallah assisted Gorilla Grodd in taking over the remains of Central City at the time when The Black had taken over most of the world. They successfully captured Animal Man and the heroes that were with him until they were saved by Frankenstein and his Patchwork Army.[5] Powers and Abilities Powers - Enhanced Intellect: After being experimented on by the Brain, Mallah was far more intelligent than an above average human being. - Gorilla Physiology: Gorillas are naturally more physically capable then humans. - Fangs: Gorillas' teeth are very sharp, capable of easily biting through flesh and bone. - Gorilla Strength: Gorillas are several times stronger then humans are. - Gorilla Durability: Gorillas are much tougher then humans. - Enhanced Sense of Smell: Gorillas have a greater sense of smell then humans, Mallah can smell pheromones.[4] Abilities - Firearms - Mechanical Engineering: Monsieur Mallah has designed The Brain's gorilla body.[7] - Multilingualism: He speaks dozens of languages, including French and English.[6] Paraphernalia Weapons - Machine Gun Notes - Monsieur Mallah was created by Arnold Drake and Bruno Premiani, first appearing in Doom Patrol #86. However, in the Prime Earth continuity, Monsieur Mallah first appeared as part of the New 52 DC Universe in Animal Man (Volume 2) #14 by Jeff Lemire, Steve Pugh, and Timothy Green II. Related - 37 Appearances of Mallah (Prime Earth) - 16 Images featuring Mallah (Prime Earth) - 2 Quotations by or about Mallah (Prime Earth) - Character Gallery: Mallah (Prime Earth) Footnotes | Titans Villain(s) This character has been primarily an enemy of the Teen Titans, the Titans, or any of the other various Titans incarnations. This template will categorize articles that include it into the "Titans Villains" category. | | Doom Patrol Villain(s) | | Peacemaker Villain(s) This character is or was primarily an enemy of Peacemaker. This template will categorize articles that include it into the category "Peacemaker Villains." | | Brotherhood of Evil member |


--- [The Young Justice universe's origins for Monsieur Mallah, the Brain and ...] ---
The Young Justice universe’s origins for Monsieur Mallah, the Brain and the Ultrahumanite, from the in-canon comic storyline Monkey Business. In terms of the original comics, despite the Brain and the Ultrahumanite both having a thing for brain transplantation and gorillas, their origins were originally seperate. The Ultrahumanite debuted in 1939′s Action Comics #13, where he served as Superman’s main foe prior to the creation of Lex Luthor in 1940′s Action Comics #23. Pretty much the prototypical mad scientist, he was originally a balding super-genius in a wheelchair who attempted to take over the world with a variety of schemes involving gangsters, manufactured plagues and such. What sets the Ultrahumanite apart from other DC mad scientists is his unorthodox method to escape death. For example, after seemingly dying in Action Comics #19, the Ultra-Humanite survived a fatal shooting by having his assistant abduct a famous film actress, Dolores Winters, and having his own brain placed inside her body as a disguise. After the seeming death of the Ultrahumanite in Action Comics #21 (1940), where they fell to their death in a volcano, the supervillain vanished for several decades until Justice League of America #195-197 (1981), where they transfered their consciousness to an albino gorilla body, which became their most well-known host. This was later retconned in the Amanda Conner Power Girl series with the Brain being a genius suffering from a rare neurological disorder which required that he had his brain directly transplanted into a gorilla to survive, with Dolores seemingly retconned… although he still wanted to scope out Peeg’s brain so he could have her body for himself. There’s no indication that the Ultra-Humanite’s human body in YJ is their original body, or whether the old lady is an elderly version of them in their Dolores Winters host. The Brain, meanwhile, in most versions of his origin he was injured in an accident which required that he have his brain placed in a life-support tank, as opposed to his chosing to undergo the surgery for no real reason like in the above YJ scan. Debuting in Doom Patrol #86, the Brain was a mysterious French scientist who spent the last ten years of his life experimenting upon a gorilla to give it a genius intellect and its own science skills. Upon his death, Mallah placed the scientist’s brain on life-support, and the pair decided to try and take over the world with their newly formed Brotherhood of Evil. It was later retconned to the pre-brain Brain being an associate of Dr Niles Caulder, head of the Doom Patrol, who attempted to murder him for some reason (could be Niles thought that the Frenchman was evil, but who knows with Caulder?). Regarding Dolores Winters, IIRC she too became a brain swapping villain herself, since the villain who assisted the Humanite in stealing her body was actually a fan, and kept the brain alive and got her a new body and eventually ice manipulating powers, becoming the villainess Endless Winter. COMICS EVERYBODY! Ah yeah, Dolores Winters ended up becoming a supervillain who was somehow just as bad as the Ultra-Humanite, her modern debut involving her running a clinic which specialised in having superhuman’s organs stolen to be transplanted into rich clients. This wasn’t restricted purely to organs with powers attached, sometimes they just stole stuff just for the aesthetic value, like a rich person hiring someone to steal works of art or something, despite it leaving maimed and dying people in their wake. The storyline was freaking gross, man.
