=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Oprah's Indiana farm sold to developer - UPI.com]
Talk show queenOprahWinfreywill not be spending any more time on the 164-acreIndianafarm that served as herweekendrefuge for 16 years.
URL: https://www.upi.com/Entertainment_News/2004/12/16/Oprahs-Indiana-farm-sold-to-developer/39701103246152/

[Oprah Unloads Indiana Farm Hideaway - People.com]
FOUND:OprahWinfreyhas landed a buyer for her 164-acrespread inIndianafarm country that has served as aweekendrefuge from her Chicago base for the past 16 years, reports the Chicago Sun ...
URL: https://people.com/celebrity/oprah-unloads-indiana-farm-hideaway/

[Where Does Oprah Winfrey Live? A Look Inside the Billionaire's Real ...]
Indianafarm Around 1988,Winfreybought a 164-acrefarm inRollingPrairie,Indiana,to serve as a getaway from the Windy City. The property's main house was a 9,700-square-foot, five-bedroom pad. A guesthouse, a swimming pool, a pool house, a caretaker's residence, a log cabin, stables, and an orchard were also on the premises.Winfreylisted the compound in August 2003 for $8.5 million ...
URL: https://www.admiddleeast.com/story/where-does-oprah-winfrey-live-a-look-inside-the-billionaire-dollar100-million-real-estate-portfolio

[Oprah Winfrey's Houses Are Worth Upwards of $100 Million—Here's Where ...]
Indianafarm Around 1988,Winfreybought a 164-acrefarm inRollingPrairie,Indiana,to serve as a getaway from the Windy City. The property's main house was a 9,700-square-foot, five-bedroom pad.
URL: https://www.architecturaldigest.com/story/oprah-winfrey-real-estate-portfolio

[Where Did Oprah Winfrey live in Indiana? - Heimduo]
WhereDidOprahWinfreylive inIndiana?Winfrey's9,700-square-foot house is on a 164-acreestate nearRollingPrairie,about 20 miles west of South Bend. Where isOprah'sMaui house?OprahWinfreyloves the Island of Maui so much that she bought over 60acresoflandinEast Maui, and then she bought the historic Thompson Ranch near Keokea. DoesOprahstill own a farm inIndiana? CHICAGO ...
URL: https://heimduo.org/where-did-oprah-winfrey-live-in-indiana/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Oprah's Indiana farm sold to developer - UPI.com] ---
CHICAGO, Dec. 16 (UPI) -- Talk show queen Oprah Winfrey will not be spending any more time on the 164-acre Indiana farm that served as her weekend refuge for 16 years. Winfrey reportedly is selling the farm in Rolling Prairie, Ind., to Chicago developer Fred Latsko for an undisclosed price, Chicago Sun-Times gossip columnist Bill Zwecker said. The Winfrey property had been listed for $8.5 million in August 2003 but the price was later dropped to $6.9 million. The LaPorte County farm includes a 9,700-square-foot main residence, a smaller guest house, a swimming pool, stables and an orchard. Latsko said he had no intention of subdividing and developing the property for resale. Oprah now spends her free time at her $50 million seaside estate in Montecito, Calif., near Santa Barbara.


--- [Oprah Unloads Indiana Farm Hideaway - People.com] ---
Oprah Unloads Indiana Farm Hideaway Plus: New Apprentice judge, Hugh Grant gets bookish, and more By Stephen M. Silverman Stephen M. Silverman Stephen M. Silverman is the former founding editor of PEOPLE.com. He left PEOPLE in 2015. People Editorial Guidelines and Bryan Alexander Published on December 17, 2004 09:00AM EST FOUND: Oprah Winfrey has landed a buyer for her 164-acre spread in Indiana farm country that has served as a weekend refuge from her Chicago base for the past 16 years, reports the Chicago Sun-Times. The TV queen, 50, will sell the estate – which includes a 9,700-sq.-ft., five-bedroom main residence, a guest house, a pool house, a caretaker’s house, a log cabin, stables and an orchard – to an unnamed Windy City entrepreneur for an undisclosed price, the Chicago Sun-Times reports. Originally listed for $8.5 million (the price was dropped to $6.9 million), the property has been on the market for about a year, according to the real estate agency Koenig and Strey. ADDED: Michelle Scarborough, 31, a corporate lawyer for the Trump Organization, will join Donald Trump in the boardroom for The Apprentice 3, which will kick off Jan. 20, reports the New York Post. She will essentially be replacing Trump adviser and boardroom stalwart George Ross, 77, who is said to be cutting back his participation in the show by half on the coming season. Carolyn Kepcher, who also assists in the selection of who’s fired and not, will remain. UNDERSTUDIED: It was a royal letdown for Prince Charles when Nathan Lane canceled his appearance in Thursday’s West End performance of The Producers. A theater source tells PEOPLE that the star’s back went out two minutes before the show was set to begin – and the producers of The Producers considered canceling the show. The audience greeted the announcement that the lead role would be played by understudy Cory English with gasps, boos and walkouts – though not by Charles, who joined the standing ovation for English at the end of the show. SELECTED: Organizers of the Whitbread Book of the Year Award have named Hugh Grant, 44, to the panel of judges for the 2004 prize. On the award’s Web site, Grant – who studied English at Oxford University – cited Kingsley Amis’s Lucky Jim, Philip Roth’s Portnoy’s Complaint, Vladimir Nabokov’s Speak, Memory and The Blessing by Nancy Mitford as his favorite books. Previous celebrity judges in Britain’s longest-running literary competition have included Jerry Hall and Ralph Fiennes. ACCUSED: Motley Crue singer Vince Neil, 33, is accused of knocking out an employee of a Dallas nightclub after a disagreement over sound levels during a concert, the Associated Press reports. An arrest warrant for misdemeanor assault was issued Wednesday for Neil in the fight at Gilley’s Dallas during an Oct. 30 show. The soundman was knocked unconscious for about 45 seconds, the warrant said. SETTLED: All the creditors listed on bankruptcy petitions involving former Miami Vice and Nash Bridges star Don Johnson, 58, have been paid off, Denver lawyer Lee Kutner tells AP. Kutner said Johnson’s companies should be emerging from bankruptcy soon. “He has obtained new financing,” Kutner said. City National Bank sued Johnson in March, seeking to force an auction of his 17-acre ranch to recoup $930,000 it claimed he owed. CRITICIZED: Comic Chevy Chase, 61, is getting heat even from fellow liberals for his Bush-bashing Tuesday night at the Kennedy Center in Washington, where he hosted a People for the American Way awards ceremony, reports The Washington Post. Following speeches by Alec Baldwin and Susan Sarandon, Chase ranted against Bush, using a four-letter expletive once uttered by Vice President Dick Cheney. He also said, “This guy in office is an uneducated, real lying schmuck … and we still couldn’t beat him with a bore like Kerry.” Ralph Neas, the liberal advocacy group’s president, said in a statement afterwards: “Chevy Chase’s improvised remarks caught everyone off guard, and were inappropriate and offensive.” OFFERED: Media mogul Rupert Murdoch, 73, has agreed to buy the late Laurence Rockefeller’s Fifth Avenue triplex penthouse, which carries a $44-million asking price, the highest ever for a Manhattan residence, reports The New York Times. The co-op board, which Murdoch now must face before he is accepted into the building, insists that the buyer pay all cash for the apartment. Murdoch’s spokesman declined comment on the transaction. RECEIVED: The London musical stage version of the 1964 Julie Andrews movie Mary Poppins (which hit stores in a digitally enhanced Disney DVD this week) was adored by critics and is expected to hit Broadway at some time in the future. The stage version, starring Laura Michelle Kelly as the magical flying nanny, was found to be an improvement on the movie’s plot. Six new songs have been added, and the established tunes have been reworked. Still the original score remains inspirational. The Daily Mail headlined its review: “Super Kelly Fragilistic.” Close Read more: Lifestyle Home


--- [Where Does Oprah Winfrey Live? A Look Inside the Billionaire's Real ...] ---
Oprah Winfrey’s houses are the stuff dreams are made of, leaving many to wonder, “Where does Oprah Winfrey live?” The media mogul, who has a net worth of $3 billion, according to Forbes, is famous for her work ethic, her entrepreneurial spirit, and her ability to manifest the goals she sets for herself – and none of this is more evident than in her real estate portfolio curation. Back in 1985, while filming The Color Purple, Winfrey reportedly wrote down her desire to one day own a place of her own. “It made me yearn to live in a space that would inspire and elevate me,” she said in a March 2013 feature for O, The Oprah Magazine, of her time working on the Oscar-winning film. “I longed for a beautiful home.” Over the years, Winfrey has amassed residences in Illinois, Florida, Colorado, Hawaii, and Washington State. She’s also owned, or currently owns, properties in Tennessee and Indiana, though she primarily purchased those places for family and friends. And of course, she owns extensive property in Montecito, California, the site of the much-heralded estate she calls Promised Land. “I have actually travelled this country from the redwood forest – love those redwoods – to the Gulf Stream waters,” Winfrey said in 2024 of her homes across the country. Below, we’re sharing a glimpse into a handful of Winfrey’s real estate holdings, which are a testament to her ambitions and impeccable taste. The greatest design stories from AD Middle East, delivered to your inbox Also Read: Martha Stewart at Home: Inside the World of the Original Influencer in 20 Images Chicago duplex One of Winfrey’s first big real estate ventures was her purchase of a condo in Chicago’s prominent Water Tower Place, located along the city’s Magnificent Mile, in 1985. Her purchase came one year before The Oprah Winfrey Show aired nationally and catapulted her to a different level of national acclaim and recognition. The original purchase price was never publicly revealed, but in subsequent years, she snapped up three units surrounding the original one, for $1.06 million in 1992, $1.5 million in 1993, and $1 million in 1994, respectively, according to the Chicago Tribune. Winfrey combined the four units into a massive duplex that measured 9,625 square feet and featured four bedrooms and five full and two half bathrooms. She ultimately listed the enormous duplex for $7.75 million in January 2014 and sold it for $4.625 million in late 2015. Indiana farm Around 1988, Winfrey bought a 164-acre farm in Rolling Prairie, Indiana, to serve as a getaway from the Windy City. The property’s main house was a 9,700-square-foot, five-bedroom pad. A guesthouse, a swimming pool, a pool house, a caretaker’s residence, a log cabin, stables, and an orchard were also on the premises. Winfrey listed the compound in August 2003 for $8.5 million. She dropped the price to $6.9 million before offloading it the following year. Four Seasons Chicago In 1994, around the same time she was purchasing the last of the four adjacent condos in Water Tower Place, Winfrey also dropped $100,000 on a three-bedroom apartment at the Four Seasons Chicago. The renowned luxury hotel is situated just a few blocks from Lake Michigan and not too far from the Near West Side, where Harpo Studios, Winfrey’s multimedia production company, was located at the time. When Winfrey closed the studios for good in 2015, she sold the three-bedroom pad for $1.28 million and officially relocated to the West Coast. Fisher Island mansion One year after her Four Seasons Chicago purchase, Winfrey picked up a property on the exclusive Fisher Island, a 216-acre man-made island situated just off the coast of Miami; she primarily utilised the property as an escape from Chicago’s harsh winters. She paid an undisclosed amount for a four-bedroom, six-bathroom penthouse condo, which measured 6,170 square feet and boasted 20-foot ceilings and an expansive oceanfront terrace. The unit was located in the high-end Villa Del Mare condominiums, where amenities included a billiards room, a biking trail, multiple swimming pools, and a spa. The residence itself was airy and light-filled, with a wood-burning oven in the kitchen and a spacious main suite with his-and-hers en-suite bathrooms and dressing rooms. Winfrey ended up selling the unit for a then-unheard-of $6.5 million in 2001 to the former chairman of Campbell’s Soup. Promised Land In 2001, Winfrey began to set down roots for what is now known as Promised Land, her sprawling home in Montecito, California. The media mogul paid around $50 million for the original 42-acre spread, which included a 23,000-square-foot Georgian-style house, a 6,000-square-foot redwood guesthouse, and an outdoor area perfect for a pool, tennis court, and multiple patios. In the decades following, Winfrey continued to snap up nearby properties to expand her holdings, which now measure something around 70 acres; she still calls this sprawling estate her main home, even though she has sold off numerous parts of it over the years. In 2008, she featured the property’s dreamy teahouse in O, The Oprah Magazine. The petite outbuilding, tucked near an English-style garden and a rose garden, was initially planned as a space to cut and arrange flowers, but instead Winfrey designed it as a space to read, meditate, and sip tea. “It’s my dream, having a place like this. Some people ask, ‘Why do you need more space?’ And I tell them, ‘I need it to restore myself.’” In 2015, Winfrey began the slow and steady expansion of Promised Land with the purchase of a longtime equestrian property, Seamair Farm, located a stone’s throw from her original 42 acres. Winfrey paid $28.85 million for the 23-acre estate, one of the largest in the area. It includes a main house designed by California architect Cliff May and ample outdoor amenities, including a swimming pool, patio area, a fish pond, fruit orchards, and two private wells. A 44-acre dedicated preserve – including a two-acre avocado grove – is perfect for raising an assortment of crops, and a number of equestrian structures round out the estate’s offerings: a training area, multiple stables, and a large circular paddock. Then, in late 2019, Winfrey purchased a four-acre complex from actor Jeff Bridges for $6.85 million, expanding Promised Land to a jaw-dropping 70 contiguous acres. Bridges and his wife, Susan Geston, had restored the Spanish Revival–style compound following the devastating 2017 mudslides, creating a new aesthetic that combined the original 1919 detailing with more modern furnishings. The multihyphenate’s new property comprises a main house, a guest house, a carriage house, a pool house, and a gated equestrian facility with stables and a tack room. Notably, the main house was originally built by local architect James Osborne Craig, and the kitchen is a central part of the home, with vaulted, exposed-beam ceilings and skylights that welcome in tons of natural light. Winfrey’s most recent Montecito acquisition was a roughly one-acre property with a Mediterranean-style mansion and two cottages, which she picked up for $10.5 million in 2021. The main farmhouse comprised four bedrooms and three-and-a-half bathrooms spread across 4,320 square feet, with landscaped gardens, multiple terraces, a massive motorcourt, and stunning ocean and mountain views all around. The former talk show host didn’t hang onto this dwelling for long, however, selling the main mansion to Friends star Jennifer Aniston the following year for $14.8 million. She then sold the two cottages to her longtime friend and personal trainer, Bob Greene, for $2.3 million. Suburban Colonial-style home Winfrey purchased a modest four-bedroom Colonial-style home in the Elmwood Park suburb just outside Chicago for $298,000 in 2001. The television personality sank some money into updating the roof and gutter system, the garage door, and the heating and cooling system, but otherwise left the 2,250-square-foot home as is. Winfrey reportedly never actually lived in the house, which featured two wood-burning fireplaces, recessed lighting, and hardwood floors. Following the closure of Harpo Studios, Winfrey sold off all of her Chicago-area properties, including this one, which fetched $375,000 in 2018. Maui properties The media magnate’s personal trainer, Bob Greene, is responsible for encouraging Winfrey to invest in land in Hawaii. “He was worried that some developer might swoop up the land and build condos,” she explained. Between 2002 and 2003, she purchased two properties in Maui, totalling 163 acres and costing her about $5.3 million. Both properties, situated in the Kula community, comprise several structures, but the one that Winfrey calls home is a grey ranch that she reimagined into an inviting modern farmhouse with the help of decorator Ellie Cullman, whom she hired after seeing Cullman’s laid-back Connecticut home on the cover of a magazine. “I saw a small porch, a kitchen that needed work, a master bedroom that did not face the view and had a low ceiling, and no connection between inside and outside,” Cullman said of the home’s existing structure. “The original plan was to do a quick job on the house and then think about building the ultimate Hawaii homestead.” Instead, architectural designer Jeff Wooley was brought on to reconfigure the entire floor plan. French doors were added, the staircase was moved, the ceiling in the main suite was raised, and a wraparound porch was built to take advantage of the views. When it came time to decorate the living room, Cullman and Winfrey took inspiration from the horses residing on the surrounding hills, appointing an antique weather vane in the shape of a galloping equine as the room’s centrepiece. The kitchen also now features a patterned stencil reminiscent of a quilt. Some pieces were repurposed from the former talk show host’s other properties, such as a Shaker chest from her Indiana home and a dining table that once sat in a poolhouse. “I grew up in a rural folk environment, and I’m still rooted in things that have brought me comfort over the years,” Winfrey said. “I love, love, love my house…. It’s a gem, so sweet and exquisite; such a real, normal house. It feels like a blanket. A lovely and soft cashmere one.” Added Cullman, “She liked [the home’s] small scale…. She already has a large home in Santa Barbara – this seems to go back to something real and personal. It’s a great house for her and two or three friends.” In 2010, Winfrey reportedly planned to turn the 12-bedroom manse into a bed-and-breakfast. She gained approval to operate the pad as a vacation rental the following year. Recently, Winfrey has built up her holdings in Maui, paying $6.6 million for 870 acres in 2023, comprising four large parcels of agricultural land. This, added to her 163 acres of existing Maui property (on a different part of the island), means that she now owns roughly 1,000 acres on the island. Reactions to Winfrey’s large purchase have been mixed, but some local residents have noted that the media mogul is being thoughtful about leaving the majority of her land undeveloped. “We’re struggling. We’re putting tax dollars together to try to do fencing and culling,” Maui councilmember Yuki Lei Sugimura told a local station, praising Winfrey for hiring local residents to help with any construction needs. “We want to protect our food for food security as well as protect the watershed. Those are the big issues, and she’s stepping right into them.” During a brush fire in 2019 and a tsunami warning in 2025, Winfrey opened her private road to help her neighbours evacuate. Antigua residence Although details are scarce, Winfrey reportedly has owned a chateau on Jumby Bay, an upscale private island off the coast of Antigua, since at least as far back as 2010. Accessible by private ferry, the 300-acre island hosts 28 resort bungalows, according to the New York Post, but the rest of the tropical locale is devoted to 56 estates, one of which Winfrey has called home – though it’s unclear if she still maintains the property. The greatest design stories from AD Middle East, delivered to your inbox Telluride investments Winfrey made headlines in 2014 when she purchased nearly 60 acres of land near the Telluride Ski Resort in Colorado for $10.85 million. She had plans to build a megamansion on the property, but ran into a bit of a legal issue when a retired nuclear physicist living in the area sued her for trail access rights. “I don’t care if Oprah is a neighbour, but if she is going to cut off access to trails, I don’t find that acceptable,” the physicist told the Denver Post. The lawsuit was ultimately dropped, and it is unclear whether or not Winfrey went through with constructing her proposed megamansion. The following year, while waiting to see whether the megamansion plans could go through, the media mogul doubled down on her holdings in Telluride with the purchase of a state-of-the-art $14 million mansion. Winfrey bought the five-bedroom, six-and-a-half bathroom home from tech entrepreneur Bob Wall fully furnished. Set on 3.25 acres, the structure is made of stone, glass, and wood, with a 56-foot-long underground wine cellar (or wine cave, as it was often referred to) that even has sounds of creaking wood and dripping water played through a speaker. Other enviable features include a tempered glass bridge with integrated fibre optic lighting that connects the main suite to a private office and a second 45-foot bridge that extends from the house to a terrace perched in the trees 35 feet above ground. The high-tech residence was meant to be a “temporary” home as Winfrey oversaw construction of the megamansion, but it appears that the media mogul still owns it. Orcas Island vacation home The Pacific Northwest caught Winfrey’s eye in 2018, when she dropped $8 million for two adjoining parcels on Orcas Island, a part of the San Juan archipelago situated between Seattle and Vancouver. The luxury waterfront retreat measured a whopping 43 acres and included a main 7,303-square-foot, four-bedroom, five-bathroom house and a separate 2,948-square-foot guesthouse, both of which were built with rare reclaimed woods. The main house boasted a double-height great room with a stone fireplace, a library with floor-to-ceiling bookshelves, and a kitchen with a built-in pizza oven. The compound, known as Madroneagle, also included a sauna, Asian garden, and private beach on its grounds. Winfrey ultimately sold the property for $14 million just three years later, reasoning that she just didn’t have time to use the island getaway. For someone who built her life on intention, “Where does Oprah Winfrey live?” becomes a testament to how far a dream can travel.


--- [Oprah Winfrey's Houses Are Worth Upwards of $100 Million—Here's Where ...] ---
Oprah Winfrey’s houses are the stuff dreams are made of. The media mogul, who has a net worth of $3 billion, according to Forbes, is famous for her work ethic, her entrepreneurial spirit, and her ability to manifest the goals she sets for herself—and none of this is more evident than in her real estate portfolio curation. Back in 1985, while filming The Color Purple, Winfrey reportedly wrote down her desire to one day own a place of her own. “It made me yearn to live in a space that would inspire and elevate me,” she said in a March 2013 feature for O, The Oprah Magazine of her time working on the Oscar-winning film. “I longed for a beautiful home.” Over the years, Winfrey has amassed residences in Illinois, Florida, Colorado, Hawaii, and Washington State. She’s also owned, or currently owns, properties in Tennessee and Indiana, though she primarily purchased those places for family and friends. And of course, she owns extensive property in Montecito, California, the site of the much-heralded estate she calls Promised Land. “I have actually traveled this country from the redwood forest—love those redwoods—to the Gulf Stream waters,” Winfrey said in 2024 of her homes across the country. Below, we’re sharing a glimpse into a handful of Winfrey’s real estate holdings, which are a testament to her ambitions and impeccable taste. Chicago duplex One of Winfrey’s first big real estate ventures was her purchase of a condo in Chicago’s prominent Water Tower Place, located along the city’s Magnificent Mile, in 1985. Her purchase came one year before The Oprah Winfrey Show aired nationally and catapulted her to a different level of national acclaim and recognition. The original purchase price was never publicly revealed, but in subsequent years, she snapped up three units surrounding the original one, for $1.06 million in 1992, $1.5 million in 1993, and $1 million in 1994, respectively, according to the Chicago Tribune. Winfrey combined the four units into a massive duplex that measured 9,625 square feet and featured four bedrooms and five full and two half bathrooms. She ultimately listed the enormous duplex for $7.75 million in January 2014 and sold it for $4.625 million in late 2015. Indiana farm Around 1988, Winfrey bought a 164-acre farm in Rolling Prairie, Indiana, to serve as a getaway from the Windy City. The property’s main house was a 9,700-square-foot, five-bedroom pad. A guesthouse, a swimming pool, a pool house, a caretaker’s residence, a log cabin, stables, and an orchard were also on the premises. Winfrey listed the compound in August 2003 for $8.5 million. She dropped the price to $6.9 million before offloading it the following year. Four Seasons Chicago In 1994, around the same time she was purchasing the last of the four adjacent condos in Water Tower Place, Winfrey also dropped $100,000 on a three-bedroom apartment at the Four Seasons Chicago. The renowned luxury hotel is situated just a few blocks from Lake Michigan and not too far from the Near West Side, where Harpo Studios, Winfrey’s multimedia production company, was located at the time. When Winfrey closed the studios for good in 2015, she sold the three-bedroom pad for $1.28 million and officially relocated to the West Coast. Fisher Island mansion One year after her Four Seasons Chicago purchase, Winfrey picked up a property on the exclusive Fisher Island, a 216-acre man-made island situated just off the coast of Miami; she primarily utilized the property as an escape from Chicago’s harsh winters. She paid an undisclosed amount for a four-bedroom, six-bathroom penthouse condo, which measured 6,170 square feet and boasted 20-foot ceilings and an expansive oceanfront terrace. The unit was located in the high-end Villa Del Mare condominiums, where amenities included a billiards room, a biking trail, multiple swimming pools, and a spa. The residence itself was airy and light-filled, with a wood-burning oven in the kitchen and a spacious main suite with his-and-hers en-suite bathrooms and dressing rooms. Winfrey ended up selling the unit for a then-unheard-of $6.5 million in 2001 to the former chairman of Campbell’s Soup. Promised Land In 2001, Winfrey began to set down roots for what is now known as Promised Land, her sprawling home in Montecito, California. The media mogul paid around $50 million for the original 42-acre spread, which included a 23,000-square-foot Georgian-style house, a 6,000-square-foot redwood guesthouse, and an outdoor area perfect for a pool, tennis court, and multiple patios. In the decades following, Winfrey continued to snap up nearby properties to expand her holdings, which now measure something around 70 acres; she still calls this sprawling estate her main home, even though she has sold off numerous parts of it over the years. In 2008, she featured the property’s dreamy teahouse in O, The Oprah Magazine. The petite outbuilding, tucked near an English-style garden and a rose garden, was initially planned as a space to cut and arrange flowers, but instead Winfrey designed it as a space to read, meditate, and sip tea. “It’s my dream, having a place like this. Some people ask, ‘Why do you need more space?’ And I tell them, ‘I need it to restore myself.’” In 2015, Winfrey began the slow and steady expansion of Promised Land with the purchase of a longtime equestrian property, Seamair Farm, located a stone’s throw from her original 42 acres. Winfrey paid $28.85 million for the 23-acre estate, one of the largest in the area. It includes a main house designed by California architect Cliff May and ample outdoor amenities, including a swimming pool, patio area, a fish pond, fruit orchards, and two private wells. A 44-acre dedicated preserve—including a two-acre avocado grove—is perfect for raising an assortment of crops, and a number of equestrian structures round out the estate’s offerings: a training area, multiple stables, and a large circular paddock. Then, in late 2019, Winfrey purchased a four-acre complex from actor Jeff Bridges for $6.85 million, expanding Promised Land to a jaw-dropping 70 contiguous acres. Bridges and his wife, Susan Geston, had restored the Spanish Revival–style compound following the devastating 2017 mudslides, creating a new aesthetic that combined the original 1919 detailing with more modern furnishings. The multihyphenate’s new property comprises a main house, a guest house, a carriage house, a pool house, and a gated equestrian facility with stables and a tack room. Notably, the main house was originally built by local architect James Osborne Craig, and the kitchen is a central part of the home, with vaulted, exposed-beam ceilings and skylights that welcome in tons of natural light. Winfrey’s most recent Montecito acquisition was a roughly one-acre property with a Mediterranean-style mansion and two cottages, which she picked up for $10.5 million in 2021. The main farmhouse comprised four bedrooms and three-and-a-half bathrooms spread across 4,320 square feet, with landscaped gardens, multiple terraces, a massive motorcourt, and stunning ocean and mountain views all around. The former talk show host didn’t hang onto this dwelling for long, however, selling the main mansion to Friends star Jennifer Aniston the following year for $14.8 million. She then sold the two cottages to her longtime friend and personal trainer, Bob Greene, for $2.3 million. Suburban Colonial-style home Winfrey purchased a modest four-bedroom Colonial-style home in the Elmwood Park suburb just outside Chicago for $298,000 in 2001. The television personality sank some money into updating the roof and gutter system, the garage door, and the heating and cooling system, but otherwise left the 2,250-square-foot home as is. Winfrey reportedly never actually lived in the house, which featured two wood-burning fireplaces, recessed lighting, and hardwood floors. Following the closure of Harpo Studios, Winfrey sold off all of her Chicago-area properties, including this one, which fetched $375,000 in 2018. Maui properties The media magnate’s personal trainer, Bob Greene, is responsible for encouraging Winfrey to invest in land in Hawaii. “He was worried that some developer might swoop up the land and build condos,” she explained. Between 2002 and 2003, she purchased two properties in Maui totaling 163 acres and costing her about $5.3 million. Both properties, situated in the Kula community, comprise several structures, but the one that Winfrey calls home is a gray ranch that she reimagined into an inviting modern farmhouse with the help of decorator Ellie Cullman, whom she hired after seeing Cullman’s laid-back Connecticut home on the cover of a magazine. “I saw a small porch, a kitchen that needed work, a master bedroom that did not face the view and had a low ceiling, and no connection between inside and outside,” Cullman said of the home’s existing structure. “The original plan was to do a quick job on the house and then think about building the ultimate Hawaii homestead.” Instead, architectural designer Jeff Wooley was brought on to reconfigure the entire floor plan. French doors were added, the staircase was moved, the ceiling in the main suite was raised, and a wraparound porch was built to take advantage of the views. When it came time to decorate the living room, Cullman and Winfrey took inspiration from the horses residing on the surrounding hills, appointing an antique weather vane in the shape of a galloping equine as the room’s centerpiece. The kitchen also now features a patterned stencil reminiscent of a quilt. Some pieces were repurposed from the former talk show host’s other properties, such as a Shaker chest from her Indiana home and a dining table that once sat in a poolhouse. “I grew up in a rural folk environment, and I’m still rooted in things that have brought me comfort over the years,” Winfrey said. “I love, love, love my house…. It’s a gem, so sweet and exquisite; such a real, normal house. It feels like a blanket. A lovely and soft cashmere one.” Added Cullman, “She liked [the home’s] small scale…. She already has a large home in Santa Barbara—this seems to go back to something real and personal. It’s a great house for her and two or three friends.” In 2010, Winfrey reportedly planned to turn the 12-bedroom manse into a bed-and-breakfast. She gained approval to operate the pad as a vacation rental the following year. Recently, Winfrey has built up her holdings in Maui, paying $6.6 million for 870 acres in 2023, comprising four large parcels of agricultural land. This, added to her 163 acres of existing Maui property (on a different part of the island), means that she now owns roughly 1,000 acres on the island. Reactions to Winfrey’s large purchase have been mixed, but some local residents have noted that the media mogul is being thoughtful about leaving the majority of her land undeveloped. “We’re struggling. We’re putting tax dollars together to try to do fencing and culling,” Maui councilmember Yuki Lei Sugimura told a local station, praising Winfrey for hiring local residents to help with any construction needs. “We want to protect our food for food security as well as protect the watershed. Those are the big issues and she’s stepping right into them.” During a brush fire in 2019 and a tsunami warning in 2025, Winfrey opened her private road to help her neighbors evacuate. Antigua residence Although details are scarce, Winfrey reportedly has owned a chateau on Jumby Bay, an upscale private island off the coast of Antigua, since at least as far back as 2010. Accessible by private ferry, the 300-acre island hosts 28 resort bungalows, according to the New York Post, but the rest of the tropical locale is devoted to 56 estates, one of which Winfrey has called home—though it’s unclear if she still maintains the property. Telluride investments Winfrey made headlines in 2014 when she purchased nearly 60 acres of land near the Telluride Ski Resort in Colorado for $10.85 million. She had plans to build a megamansion on the property, but ran into a bit of a legal issue when a retired nuclear physicist living in the area sued her for trail access rights. “I don’t care if Oprah is a neighbor, but if she is going to cut off access to trails, I don’t find that acceptable,” the physicist told the Denver Post. The lawsuit was ultimately dropped, and it is unclear whether or not Winfrey went through with constructing her proposed megamansion. The following year, while waiting to see whether the megamansion plans could go through, the media mogul doubled down on her holdings in Telluride with the purchase of a state-of-the-art $14 million mansion. Winfrey bought the five-bedroom, six-and-a-half bathroom home from tech entrepreneur Bob Wall fully furnished. Set on 3.25 acres, the structure is made of stone, glass, and wood, with a 56-foot-long underground wine cellar (or wine cave, as it was often referred to) that even has sounds of creaking wood and dripping water played through a speaker. Other enviable features include a tempered glass bridge with integrated fiber optic lighting that connects the main suite to a private office and a second 45-foot bridge that extends from the house to a terrace perched in the trees 35 feet above ground. The high-tech residence was meant to be a “temporary” home as Winfrey oversaw construction of the megamansion, but it appears that the media mogul still owns it. Orcas Island vacation home The Pacific Northwest caught Winfrey’s eye in 2018, when she dropped $8 million for two adjoining parcels on Orcas Island, a part of the San Juan archipelago situated between Seattle and Vancouver. The luxury waterfront retreat measured a whopping 43 acres and included a main 7,303-square-foot, four-bedroom, five-bathroom house and a separate 2,948-square-foot guesthouse, both of which were built with rare reclaimed woods. The main house boasted a double-height great room with a stone fireplace, a library with floor-to-ceiling bookshelves, and a kitchen with a built-in pizza oven. The compound, known as Madroneagle, also included a sauna, Asian garden, and private beach on its grounds. Winfrey ultimately sold the property for $14 million just three years later, reasoning that she just didn’t have time to use the island getaway.


--- [Where Did Oprah Winfrey live in Indiana? - Heimduo] ---
No content
