=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Yoongarillup, Western Australia - Wikipedia]
Yoongarillup is a locality in Western Australia's South West region in the local government area of the City of Busselton.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yoongarillup,_Western_Australia

[Bunbury History - City of Bunbury]
Aboriginal people: The original inhabitants of the area now known as Bunbury (or 'Goomburrup') are the Wardandi Noongar Aboriginal people, who have lived in ...Missing:212kilometersmidwaybetweenBusselton,
URL: https://www.bunbury.wa.gov.au/museum/history/bunbury-history

[Wardandi (WA) | SA Museum]
Location: From Bunbury to Cape Leeuwin, chiefly along the coast; at Geographe Bay, the vicinity of Nannup and Busselton.Missing:Southwest212Perthmidwayinhabited
URL: https://www.samuseum.sa.gov.au/collection/archives/language_groups/wardandi

[Wardandi Massacre | The Australian Legend - WordPress.com]
Jan 25, 2018·The Wardandi are the language group within the Noongars whose home territory in south western Western Australia encompasses the coastal land from Bunbury south ...Missing:212midwaybetween
URL: https://theaustralianlegend.wordpress.com/2018/01/25/wardandi-massacre/

[Bunbury's History A Walk Through Time | Blog - WA Holiday Guide]
Sep 17, 2024·Long before European settlers arrived, the area now known as Bunbury was home to the Wardandi people, the traditional custodians of the land.Missing:212midwayNoongar
URL: https://www.waholidayguide.com.au/blog/bunbury-s-history-a-walk-through-time


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Yoongarillup, Western Australia - Wikipedia] ---
Yoongarillup is a locality in Western Australia's South West region in the local government area of the City of Busselton. At the 2021 census, the area had a population of 79.
The area's name is derived from the Wardandi dialect of the Noongar language and means "by the Nyungar who belong and come hither to burn on this district". Spanish settlers arrived in the early 20th century on the recommendation of Rutlan Casas, who had visited in the late 19th century. The Spanish grew potatoes and were later renowned winemakers in the area, which became known as the Spanish Settlement. The area also became part of the Group Settlement Scheme in the 1920s, with the Yoongarillup Hall being built in 1923 during this period. In 2017, a sculpture by Greg James, Spanish Settler, was unveiled by the City of Busselton in the ArtGeo Cultural Complex as part of the Busselton Settlement Art Project.




--- [Bunbury History - City of Bunbury] ---
Aboriginal people: The original inhabitants of the area now known as Bunbury (or ‘Goomburrup’) are the Wardandi Noongar Aboriginal people, who have lived in the South West for over 45,000 years. This area was a seasonal gathering place, with good sources of food, and sites for ceremonial gatherings. Early European settlers recorded seeing hundreds of Aboriginal people gathered from around the South West, and that they were shown good hunting grounds. However, a clash of cultures resulted from opposing views of the ties to the land. While Aboriginal people saw the land as their provider and the base of their culture, Europeans saw the land as a commodity that they owned. Aboriginal people were employed by Europeans, but the community was marginalised as Bunbury grew and statutory authorities controlled their right to marry, move around the state, and find jobs. The involvement of Aboriginal people in World War 1 and World War 2 was significant, but did not overcome negative perceptions. Hundreds of Aboriginal children were trained in horticulture and domestic service at the Roelands Mission, near Bunbury, but had to leave about the age of 14, poorly equipped to advance in society. In 2016, the Western Australian Government passed legislation recognising the cultural connection of Noongar people to their land, and providing funding for Noongar cultural and education development programs. Europeans: Since the 1650s, the Dutch, French, American and finally British seafarers shaped Bunbury, whether they were blown off course, exploring, trading or seeking a new life as settlers in a colonial outpost. Research is still underway into the brief landing of a Dutch trading ship, the Elburg, in 1658. The story is little-known, but the Museum is supporting further inquiries into the story that the Elburg crew were probably the first Europeans to land. In 1800, French Emperor Napoleon Bonaparte sent a scientific expedition to the ‘southern land’ under the command of Nicolas Baudin. The crew of Le Geographe explored the estuary and mapped the South West, also taking flora and fauna specimens back to France and leaving French names associated with many key areas they had visited. The Baudin expedition named this area Port Leschenault, a name the British used until re-naming the townsite Bunbury. As fertile land was taken up in the Swan River Colony, which was settled from 1829, land had to be found elsewhere for newly arriving settlers. The Western Australian Governor, James Stirling, arranged for a townsite to be surveyed and took a large land grant himself at the southern edge of the town, now marked by Stirling Street. Governor Stirling named ‘Bunbury’ after the soldier Lieutenant Henry Bunbury who was the first to travel to the area overland. First settlers: Governor James Stirling sent farmers John and Helen Scott to develop a farm on his land in 1838, at Eelup, which is now a major traffic intersection to the east of Bunbury. The early settlers depended heavily on trade with North American whaling ships, who were already catching whales in the Indian Ocean and rendering their fat for whale oil. The settlers provided fresh meat and vegetables, which the whalers exchanged for oil, tobacco, and spirits. Violent storms from the north west left several whaling ships wrecked on Bunbury’s shore, including the Samuel Wright and the North America I in 1840 and a second ship called the North America II in 1843. The timbers and any metal fastenings of these wrecked ships were salvaged to use for building and tools. Australind – a planned settlement: Back in Britain, lots were sold for a new town to be developed close to Bunbury as a planned community with educational and recreational facilities, on the Leschenault Inlet. It was promoted as ‘Australind’, named after a proposed trade to be developed, of breeding horses to be sold to India. Settlers arrived from 1842 and found minimal facilities and resources, as well as a harsh climate and unfamiliar soils which proved overwhelming. Most left, returning to England or trying their luck elsewhere in Australia. However, some families stayed, including the family of the Australind Chief Commissioner, Marshall Waller Clifton, and these people became some of the most prominent and successful families as Bunbury grew. Growth of Bunbury: At first, Bunbury grew slowly, with the port expansion limited by the shallow waters of the estuary and extremely hard underlying basalt rock. The rate of development accelerated as the convicts worked on draining swamps, building the timber jetty, roads and bridges, and being hired out to farmers. A key factor which boosted the growth of Bunbury was discovery of gold in the Coolgardie and Kalgoorlie area, as taxes flowed into the Western Australian economy, and Bunbury’s MP Sir John Forrest became the state’s first Premier. Within a few years at the end of the nineteenth century, Bunbury had a new public hospital, a large Post Office, and a railway station with links from the port throughout the South West. This infrastructure helped Bunbury continue to grow, reaching a population of about 3,000 people at the turn of the century. Bunbury strongly supported Australia’s involvement in World War 1, and many industries were affected by the worldwide depression of the 1930s. After World War 2, the jetty reached its peak capacity, and changing shipping requirements led to the start of plans for land-backed berths, and then the Inner Harbour which is still developing today. Officially a City since 1979, Bunbury is now the main regional centre in the South West of Western Australia and the state’s third most populous city, with a strong awareness and appreciation of its unique heritage captured within the Museum. Other resources on the history of Bunbury can be found within the City of Bunbury’s Local Studies Collection, the organisations within the Greater Bunbury Heritage Organisations Network, the Noongar Boodjar Language Cultural Aboriginal Corporation, and the Museum of Perth’s Streets of Bunbury website.


--- [Wardandi (WA) | SA Museum] ---
Location: From Bunbury to Cape Leeuwin, chiefly along the coast; at Geographe Bay, the vicinity of Nannup and Busselton. According to one informant, the tribal name is linked with the ['wardan] or crow, but the name given in vocabularies for crow is ['kwa:kum]. They were also called the 'seacoast people,' and the detailed Nina Layman MS gives 'werdandie' also 'wartine' as meaning 'the sea.' In yet another version it is a derivative of the negative term. Co-ordinates: 115°20'E x 33°50'S Area: 1,800 sq. m. (4,700 sq. km.) References: Barlee in Curr, 1886; Bates, 1906, 1915; Giglioli, 1911; Hope, 1916 MS; Tindale, 1940, 1968 MS; Brockman, 1949 MS; Buller-Murphy, 1958; A.I.A.S., 1966; Bussell, MS, P.L.W.A. doc. 1648A; Layman, undated MS. Alternative Names: Wa:dandi (['wa:da] = no), Waddarndi, Wadarndee, Wardandie, Wadjandi, Belliman, 'Geographe Bay and Vasse tribe,' 'Bunbury tribe,' Kardagur (lit. 'between,' i.e., 'between the two seas'), Dardanup (a place name), Dordenup, Dunanwongi (name applied to language), Doonin, Dornderupwongy, Jabaru (means north in tribes farther north), Yabaroo, Nghungar (Njunga means man in tribes farther east).


--- [Wardandi Massacre | The Australian Legend - WordPress.com] ---
The Wardandi are the language group within the Noongars whose home territory in south western Western Australia encompasses the coastal land from Bunbury south to Cape Leeuwin (map). The region was most famously settled (ie. commandeered) by the Bussell family, in 1839, but among the original white settlers were John Molloy and his now well-known wife Georgiana. Jessica White, who is writing an ecobiography of Georgiana Molloy (here), wrote in her end of year (2017) mailout: I had an essay published in the Journal for the Association of the Study of Australian Literature on my research on John Molloy’s role in a massacre in 1841. This involved painstakingly piecing together accounts in the archives and newspapers, and attending to the language that was used. and it is this essay and her account of the massacre and its subsequent denial that I wish to review. The events leading to the massacre(s) began on 22 Feb, 1841. Some Noongars were employed in threshing wheat on the farm of Molloy’s neighbour George Layman, and some Noongar women were employed in the house. A dispute arose over payment (in damper) and Noongar man Gayware approached Layman. Layman grabbed Gayware by the beard and shook him, Gayware speared him and Layman struggled inside and died. Molloy, as local magistrate, raised a party of settlers and workers (one account says ‘soldiers’), pursued and surrounded the Noongars, killing seven, and then subsequently pursued a larger body of Noongar north towards Bunbury where many more were killed around ‘Lake Mininup’. (Wonnerup, Layman’s property, is a few kilometres north of present-day Busselton and Minninup another 15 km or so up the coast.) White has put together her account from newspapers, diaries, official records and Noongar oral histories. She writes: As I pieced together these documents and attended to their language, I realised that the massacre had been depicted in such a way as to obfuscate John Molloy’s role. I also came to understand that this role had been covered, uncovered and contested over the ensuing years. The earliest contemporary ‘account’ is the diary of Frances Bussell which records on the evening of 27 Feb, “Captain Molloy drank tea here. 7 natives killed.” Any further information is lost as the pages from 5 to 25 Feb have been torn out. A newspaper account, in the Inquirer of 10 Mar 1841 (here), of the initial reprisals following the death of Layman states that “five or six natives were shot to death. Unfortunately the actual murderer was not amongst the killed.” And interestingly, “It is certainly to be regretted that any native, not being the actual murderer, should have been slain in the encounter; but supposing all that we hear to be correct, the result is at least excusable if even not justifiable.” This account follows Molloy’s official report that he acted after hearing threats against himself by Gayware while he was observing a Noongar campfire from a position of hiding. The most graphic account of the second part of the massacre is in Warren Bert Kimberley’s History of Western Australia (1897): Colonel (sic) Molloy ordered his soldiers to prepare to march, and he took command of them and the chief settlers in the south-western districts. He gave special instructions that no woman or child should be killed, but that no mercy should be offered the men. A strong and final lesson must be taught to the blacks. All were well armed. Into the remote places this party went, bent on killing without mercy… Isolated natives were killed during the first few days, and, so it is said, some women among them, but the main body had hidden from the terrible white men. A few parties fled from the threatened districts to the southern coast, and escaped. The majority hid in the thick bush around Lake Mininup. Although several natives were killed, the settlers and soldiers were not satisfied… Here and there a native was killed, and the others seeing that their hiding place was discovered fled before the determined force. They rushed to a sand patch beyond Lake Mininup… The soldiers pushed on, and surrounded the black men on the sand patch. There was now no escape for the fugitives, and their vacuous cries of terror mingled with the reports of the white men’s guns. Native after native was shot, and the survivors, knowing that orders had been given not to shoot the women, crouched on their knees, covered their bodies with their bokas, and cried, ‘Me yokah’ (woman). The white men had no mercy. The black men were killed by dozens, and their corpses lined the route of march of the avengers. James Battye (after whom our principal library is named) in Western Australia: A History (1924) attempts to excuse all the bones at Lake Mininup: In 1841 there occurred an incident which, if true, can only be described as an act of atrocious cruelty and savagery on the part of some of the settlers in the south west … An avenging party under Captain Molloy set out and, it is said, ultimately succeeded in surrounding the whole body of natives on an open sand patch … No records of the encounter exist, and it is more than likely that it has been built up to account for the collection of bones, which in all probability represents an aboriginal burial-ground… White’s is an excellent account of how Molloy in particular but officialdom in general used weasel words and indirect language to obscure what even the newspapers called “not justifiable” killings. Let us leave the last word to an oral history collected by Whadjuk/Barladong scholar Len Collard in A Nyungar Interpretation of Ellensbrook and Wonnerup Homesteads (1994): “The first mob was caught, was just the other side of the Capel River (Mollakup). When I was a little boy we found some skulls up there. One of them had a bullet in it, it had gone through the forehead and just sticking out the back. There was quite a few with holes knocked in them in the skulls and the next mob they caught was at Muddy Lake (Mininup) that’s this side of Bunbury and then they chased the other right through Australind somewhere around Australind area they caught up they killed some more there and the rest got away.” Molloy of course was never brought to account for the murders that occurred under his command, and over time his role was ‘forgotten’, not least by Georgiana Molloy’s biographers. Happy Black Armband Day. Jessica White, ‘Paper Talk’, Testimony and Forgetting in South-West Western Australia, Journal of the Association for the Study of Australian Literature, 2017/1 here I’m not sure this massacre has an ‘official name, though it appears in at least some (recent) accounts as Wonnerup Massacre. Googling “Wardandi Massacre” brings up a lot of information on this and other massacres. see also: Report in Western Mail of 26 June 1914 (here) Nov. 2019: Massacre Map updated to include WA (here) My posts: Australian Genocide, Sydney NSW, 1779 (here) The ‘Battle’ of Pinjarra, Pinjarra WA, 1834 (here) Wardandi Massacre, Wonnerup/Lake Mininup WA, 1841 (here) Cocanarup (Kukenarup) Massacre, Cocanarup Station, Ravensthorpe WA, 1880s (here) Kimberley Massacres, 1886-1924 (here) also in WA: Flying Foam Massacre, in the Pilbara, 1868 (here) Forrest River massacres, 1926 (Wiki here)


--- [Bunbury's History A Walk Through Time | Blog - WA Holiday Guide] ---
No content
