=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Dane Maxwell (Prime Earth) - DC Database - Fandom]
Dane Maxwell is the shrunken superhero Doll Man. Dane befriended Jennifer Knight in the third grade, a few years after the Bender crime family killed her ...
URL: https://dc.fandom.com/wiki/Dane_Maxwell_(Prime_Earth)

[Doll Man (Character)]
Dane Maxwell is the third official character known as Doll Man. For the original Doll Man (earth-X) see Darrel Dane. For the second one (post-Infinite ...
URL: https://comicvine.gamespot.com/doll-man/4005-86292/

[Doll Man + Doll Girl]
Doll Man III ; NAME + ALIASES: Lester Colt ; KNOWN RELATIVES: Emma Glenn (wife), Julia (daughter), Richard Glenn (father-in-law, deceased) ; GROUP AFFILIATIONS: ...
URL: https://www.cosmicteams.com/quality/profiles/DollManDollGirl.html

[Doll Man (1941) #3 | DC Database - Fandom]
To keep his identity a secret, Doll Man sucker-punches Martha, knocking her out. Insignia of the "Gold Shirts" in the 3rd story was a circle with two 'X'es in ...
URL: https://dc.fandom.com/wiki/Doll_Man_Vol_1_3

[Doll Man (Character)]
Feb 15, 2026 — Research scientist Darrel Dane used a formula he discovered to became a super hero who had the power to will his body to reduce in size to six inches.
URL: https://comicvine.gamespot.com/doll-man/4005-23313/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Dane Maxwell (Prime Earth) - DC Database - Fandom] ---
Dane Maxwell is the shrunken superhero Doll Man. History Dane befriended Jennifer Knight in the third grade, a few years after the Bender crime family killed her parents. He has been in love with her since then, he has said, and they have remained close friends into adulthood. By the time that Jennifer became a reporter trying to expose the current Bender family head Cyrus Bender, Jennifer and Dane entered a casual physical relationship. When Jennifer's investigations lead her into trouble with the Bender family, Dane attempts to resolve the conflict, only to accidentally tip off the two's location to Bender's enforcers. The criminals force Dane into a chamber of his own design, unaware of its purpose. After activating the device, Dane seemingly disappears, his clothes in a pile on the floor. They then kidnap Jennifer and take her to a secure location. Unbeknownst to the criminals, Dane did not disintegrate; he had shrunken to the size of a doll. Donning a power suit equipped with a jetpack and lasers, Dane tracks Jennifer's location and rescues her.[1] Dane provides Jennifer with a new invention of his, Black Light Bands, so that she can protect herself. After months of training away, Jennifer adopts the name Phantom Lady and christens Dane as Doll Man, and the duo return to Metropolis to bring down Cyrus Bender. They face off against their first supervillain Funerella and successfully indispose Cryus Bender. At that point, Uncle Sam and the Ray arrive to bring Bender into custody and to recruit Phantom Lady and Doll Man into a secret team working for Homeland Security. Uncle Sam offers Dane a state-of-the-art lab to help him return to his normal size and to work on other projects as an incentive.[2] Powers and Abilities Powers - Unique Physiology: Due to the effects the experimental technology he had been developing, Dane's body shrunk to be under a foot tall, around the size of some dolls. While he speculated he could reverse the process, he cannot change his size at will.[1] - Superhuman Strength: The compression of Dane's molecules make him superhumanly strong. Despite his size, he was capable of busting down a metal door on his own. His strength also allows him to leap to great heights.[1] Abilities - Science: Dane has a scientific mind capable of designing and developing the equipment that give him and Phantom Lady access to superhuman abilities. Paraphernalia Equipment - Power Suit: As Doll Man, Dane wears a suit equipped with a jetpack and firearms that shoot lasers. Recommended Reading Related - 6 Appearances of Dane Maxwell (Prime Earth) - 4 Images featuring Dane Maxwell (Prime Earth) - Quotations by or about Dane Maxwell (Prime Earth) - Character Gallery: Dane Maxwell (Prime Earth) Footnotes | Freedom Fighters member This character is or was a member of the Freedom Fighters, a team of American super-heroes who fight threats to the nation and its ideals under the leadership of Uncle Sam. This template will automatically categorize articles that include it into the "Freedom Fighters members" category. |


--- [Doll Man (Character)] ---
No recent wiki edits to this page. Dane Maxwell is the third official character known as Doll Man. For the original Doll Man (earth-X) see Darrel Dane. For the second one (post-Infinite Crisis) see Lester Colt.New 52Dane is a genius and a friend of Jennifer Knight, Phantom Lady, he is also the creator of the Blacklight Gloves among other devices. When mafia members appeared searching for Jennifer, he gets trapped in his "Shrinkinator" and exposed to its effects by the Bloody Benders. As result of that, he is trapped in six inch size permanently until he can find a way to revert the effects of the machine.Using a gadget of his own invention, Dane helps Jennifer in her justice crusade until they wer contacted by a man called Sam who is assembling his own team of freedom fighters. Font-sizeParagraphHeader 4Header 3Header 2 Quote Link Img Table TweetClean sizeSMLpositionLCRUDchangeCreditDeletesizeSMpositionLRUDchangetitle 1title 2captiondelete×Edit Image TitleTitle: ×Embed ImageWhat size image should we insert? (This will not affect the original upload) Small Medium How do you want the image positioned around text? Float Left Float Right Go to LinkUnlinkChange× Link to Comic Vine Content AllWiki Arcs Characters Companies Concepts Issues Locations Movies People Teams Things Volumes Series EpisodesEditorial Videos Articles Reviews FeaturesCommunity Users You can search for any Comic Vine content. ×Link to a pageAllWiki Arcs Characters Companies Concepts Issues Locations Movies People Teams Things Volumes Series EpisodesEditorial Videos Articles Reviews FeaturesCommunity Users You can search for any Comic Vine content. positionUDchangeDeletepositionUDchangeDeleteInsert Row UpInsert Row DownInsert Column LeftInsert Column RightDelete RowDelete ColumnbordersonheaderonpositionUDtablemax-widthdelete×Insert TableRows: Columns: positionLCRUDchangeDelete×Embed tweetEnter the URL for the tweet you want to embed.


--- [Doll Man + Doll Girl] ---
KNOWN RELATIVES: Martha Roberts (Doll Girl, wife, deceased), Prof. Roberts (father-in-law, deceased), Tommy (brother-in-law), Thomas Dane (great-grandfather), Jeremiah Dane (ancestor) GROUP AFFILIATIONS: All-Star Squadron, Freedom Fighters FIRST APPEARANCE:Feature Comics #27 (December 1939) KNOWN RELATIVES: Darrel Dane (Doll Man, husband), Prof. Roberts (father, deceased), Tommy (brother) GROUP AFFILIATIONS: None FIRST APPEARANCE: As Martha: Feature Comics #27 (December 1939). As Doll Girl: Doll Man #37 (December 1951) DEATH: Reported in Uncle Sam and the Freedom Fighters v.2 #4 (February 2008) APPEARANCES: Doll Man #37–47 (Dec. 1951–Oct. 1953) Molecule (Doll Man II) NAME + ALIASES: Unrevealed KNOWN RELATIVES: None GROUP AFFILIATIONS: Teen Titans FIRST APPEARANCE:Titans Secret Files #2) DEATH:Terror Titans #1 (December 2008) Doll Man III NAME + ALIASES: Lester Colt KNOWN RELATIVES: Emma Glenn (wife), Julia (daughter), Richard Glenn (father-in-law, deceased) GROUP AFFILIATIONS: S.H.A.D.E., Freedom Fighters FIRST APPEARANCE:Crisis Aftermath: The Battle for Blüdhaven #3 (July 2006) APPEARANCES: Crisis Aftermath: The Battle for Blüdhaven #3-6 DCU: Brave New World #1 Freedom Fighters v.2 #6-9 Uncle Sam & the Freedom Fighters v.1, #1-8 Uncle Sam & the Freedom Fighters v.2, #1-8 The Doll Man holds the title for being the first super-powered hero published by Quality Comics. He was however, preceded by four costumed heroes (the Hawk, the Clock, Bozo the Iron Man and the Invisible Hood). Like many of Quality’s most memorable heroes, he was created by Will Eisner (before his split with Jerry Iger). Today Doll Man’s appearances on the covers of Feature Comics are classics. Many of them were drawn by Gill Fox, who began with Feature Comics #54 (1942). Inside, the feature was a proving grounds for exceptional talents like Lou Fine, Reed Crandall, and Al Bryant. The feature was a favorite among readers—and Busy Arnold himself, who later promoted the character to its own solo title. Golden Age Scientist Darrel Dane had developed a revolutionary formula, but with a suggestion from his friend, Prof. Roberts, he perfected it into a fluid using the chemical acid called “aqua regia.” Dane found that the resulting concoction could reduce a human to the size of a doll! And despite his small size, he now also had the strength of twenty men. Against the Professor’s warning, Dane used the formula on himself. Sure enough, he shrunk, but he was driven temporarily mad. Roberts challenged him: would Darrel use his new powers for good or evil? As Dane’s mind cleared, his choice was obvious. In his first adventure as a crime fighter, Dane followed his fiancé, Martha (the Professor’s daughter), who was being blackmailed. Using his new strength, he saved her from the extortionist, and crafted a new name for himself—Doll Man. Curiously, Martha was privy to Darrel’s transformation in this tale, but she soon completely “forgot” about it. It would be years before Martha (re)discovered the truth. (Feature #27) Doll Man was one of the few Quality heroes who battled regular arch foes. The first of these was the macabre and sadistic Undertaker. When Martha heard about a condemned hotel, she announced that she’d been trying to get a job as a reporter. She was certain this hotel held the kernels of a great story but soon found herself face-to-face with dangerous parties keen on preventing its destruction. One was the movie star Randolph Perry, who sought records of his lost love in the hotel. Meanwhile, Doll Man ran afoul of the Undertaker, “Lord of the Plunderworld.” This balding villain was obsessed with anything related to death and sought to raid the hotel’s valuables. (Feature #91) The Undertaker returned three issues later to plunder the dead again, this time in Canada. In the end, he went down in a boat amid frozen waters. (#94) Nothing could keep him down. He shot at people willy-nilly and even fought Doll Man in the air. (#125) He kept a cache of mini-coffins for Doll Man, tossing the hero from planes and into water. His resources also included a “helicycle.” (Doll Man #15, 20, 24) Just before Martha donned her own costume, she’d actually been eliminated from Doll Man completely. She was replaced by Elmo, a dog adopted by Doll Man to help him fight crime. Elmo served primarily as transportation for Doll Man. In their first case, Darrel used the reward money to help establish a new crime lab. (Doll Man #31) Elmo became a regular fixture, and as with Quality’s remaining super-hero features, the foes became more ordinary. In Chinatown, they ran into the hooded Secret Six who temporarily swapped Elmo with a vicious look alike. (#36) In early 1966, an ambitious publisher launched a strange reinvention of Captain Marvel. In addition to pinching Plastic Man, the second issue introduced a mighty mite called Tinyman—Plastic Man’s ally and Captain Marvel’s enemy. Like Doll Man, Tinyman could shrink. He was a circus performer who in the fourth issue actually reformed and became Captain Marvel’s ally. DC’s shrinking Atom hit stands later that same year. Tinyman returned in two issues of Captain Marvel presents the Terrible Five (1966–67). DC The original Martha Roberts has never appeared in a DC Comic, but Doll Man next appeared in 1973’s Justice League of America #107–108. Darrel was reintroduced to readers along with other former Quality heroes as the Freedom Fighters. This story and the successive Freedom Fighters series are no longer in DC continuity because they involved Earth-X, an Earth in DC’s former multiverse. In that series, Doll Girl was said to have perished on Earth-X. Subsequently, Doll Man met her Earth-One counterpart, also named Martha Roberts. (Freedom Fighters #5) A pair of young heroes once took the names Doll Man II and Doll Girl II. This pair were apparently a couple and attended a recruitment party for Teen Titans in Los Angeles.(Titans Secret Files #2) It is unknown what relation, if any, these two had to the originals. This Doll Man presumably changed his name to Molecule and briefly joined the Titans at a time when the team was in much turmoil. ( 52 #32, Teen Titans v.3 #38) He was killed by the Terror Titans’s Persuader(Terror Titans #1) Doll Girl’s fate is unknown. Doll Man III, Lester Colt Lester Colt was a decorated soldier, master of martial arts and gymnastics, and student of international politics. Colt volunteered to be a nonmilitary test subject for miniaturization, administered by Dr. Richard Glenn and his daughter, Dr. Emma Glenn. Glenn theorized that a smaller population would consume less of the world’s resources. But after Lester had been shrunk, Glenn’s lab was invaded by government agents who killed Glenn and stole his work. Lester was trapped at six inches tall and became the third (Uncle Sam & the F.F. v.2 #3) Lester and Emma soon discovered that her father’s size-change research had been used to build a miniature city within the Pentagon. The original Doll Man, Darrel Dane, was recruited by Father Time to manage the experiment, leading an army of tiny soldiers. Officials abandoned the experiment, which left its inhabitants suffering from starvation and mental side effects. Darrel was especially militant because the government had promised a cure for Martha’s cancer. She died while he was trapped in the small city. His shrunken army retaliated by kidnapping the Vice President. Lester and Emma offered to help restore them (as it was Lester’s goal too). (US&FF v.2 #3-4) By injecting or ingesting a special formula, the Doll Man could “compress the molecules in his body” and shrink to about six inches in height. He could not achieve any intermediate sizes. At first, the effects would wear off and required additional dosages. While small, he had the strength of twenty men. His weight appeared to fluctuate at will because one moment he could ride atop a bird, and the next he could knock out a full-sized man. Sometimes Dane’s clothes shrank with him, other times only his uniform. He had some measure of imperviousness, too. He could weather being shot from a cannon, and could alter the course of a missile in flight. He once shrunk in order to tap into the Doll Man’s more analytical mind. (Feature #79) Originally, Doll Man III was trapped at six inches tall. With the help of his wife, Emma Glenn, he can now change between that and full height. When small he also appears to possess super-strength and density control.


--- [Doll Man (1941) #3 | DC Database - Fandom] ---
- Doll Man, huh! When I get my hands on that little .. little .. hitting a girl when her back is turned! Doll Man #3 is an issue of the series Doll Man (Volume 1) with a cover date of June, 1942. Synopsis for "The Dwarf and His Midget Marauders" Appearing in "The Dwarf and His Midget Marauders" Featured Characters: Supporting Characters: Antagonists: - Nazi agent boss - 3 hapless minions (arrested) - The Dwarf (Dies) - 6 Midget Marauders (arrested) Other Characters: - Mrs. Noble - other orphanage workers Locations: - New York City - Orphan Asylum - Munitions Factory, next door Synopsis for The Dragon: "The Rescue of Princess Lotus Moon" Appearing in The Dragon: "The Rescue of Princess Lotus Moon" Featured Characters: Supporting Characters: - Red's band of Chinese Guerrillas - Chang - Princess Lotus Moon (First appearance) Antagonists: - Japanese troops - slave auctioneer - Gen. Yamada (Dies) Locations: - Occupied China Synopsis for "The Gold Shirts of Mexico" Appearing in "The Gold Shirts of Mexico" Featured Characters: Supporting Characters: Antagonists: - Banco - the Gold Shirts Locations: Synopsis for "The Mephasat Dagger" Appearing in "The Mephasat Dagger" Featured Characters: Supporting Characters: Antagonists: - Three thieves from India Other Characters: - Museum Curator, (looks just like Prof. Roberts) (Dies) Synopsis for "The Hollywood Spies" Appearing in "The Hollywood Spies" Featured Characters: Supporting Characters: Antagonists: Other Characters: - movie starlets and studio workers Locations: - Hollywood - Fairmont Studios - Fairmont Studios Synopsis for "The Tropical Disease Serum" Appearing in "The Tropical Disease Serum" Featured Characters: Supporting Characters: Antagonists: - Dr. Zito - Charles Willis - several Nazi agents Item: - Roberts' Tropical Disease Serum, formula and sample Notes - All Quality Comics characters and the distinctive likeness(es) thereof were originally Trademarked & Copyright © 1951 Quality Comics. The characters and the distinctive likeness(es) thereof were acquired by DC Comics in 1956. While some of the properties acquired did not have copyright and trademarks renewed, some of those depicted here are Trademarks & Copyright © 1973-2008 DC Comics, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. - Dwarf and His Midget Marauders - Opening caption of 1st story states Martha Roberts does not know Darrel Dane's double identity. - To keep his identity a secret, Doll Man sucker-punches Martha, knocking her out. - Insignia of the "Gold Shirts" in the 3rd story was a circle with two 'X'es in it. - Martha, in her slinky dress, gets tied up in three out of five stories, this issue. - Also featured in this issue of Doll Man were: - "Mickey Finn" (newspaper strip reprints) by Lank Leonard - America--It's Worth Defending: "Tanks, Prehistoric and Modern" by Feg Murray - Poison Ivy: "And His Grandpa" by Gill Fox - Doll Man: "The Iron Boot" (text story) See Also Links and References This page is missing a well-written and detailed synopsis. If there is already a synopsis here, it might need to be modified or expanded. You can help the DC Database by adding a summary of the story. Look at how sad this is making Batman. You did this. Look at how sad this is making Batman. You did this.


--- [Doll Man (Character)] ---
This page is for the original Doll Man, Darrell Dane. For the post Infinite Crisis Doll Man, see: Lester Colt. For the New52 earth-0 Doll Man see Dane Maxwell Darrell Dane Using his scientific know how, research scientist Darrel Dane used a formula he discovered to became a super hero who had the power to will his body to reduce in size to six inches. In his origin he did this to save his fiance. Martha Roberts in some stories was the only person who knew the secret of Doll Man's identity, while at times she was as clueless as the rest of Darrel's friends. The reduced size allowed him to get into places a full grown man could not, and he was very strong for his size. Through his career, Doll Man used several unique methods to get around. Early he had a dog (Elmo, the Wonder Dog) trained to carry him like a horse, and later he had a miniature flying saucer (disguised as a model airplane in his study). DC Comics When the DC people decided to use the Quality heroes, it was established that Doll Man was from the parallel world called Earth-2 and later left with other Freedom Fighter members for Earth-X where the Nazi's won WWII. Later his team of Freedom Fighters left that world for Earth-1. Here he would fight criminals like the Silver Ghost. After a short time however he and his team later went back to Earth-X He appeared with his team during the Crisis on Infinite Earths which was a storyline that would eliminate other confusing histories and merge all the worlds together in one so that there weren't anymore confusion. This erased Doll Man's Earth-X days, and merged the character's All-Star Squadron and Freedom Fighter histories so that he is the primary member of the Squadron with the Freedom Fighters being a splinter group. Currently Darrell was in an unnamed mental institution. it's discovered that the years spent at a compressed size damaged his mind, leaving him mentally unstable. His most recent appearance shows Dane leading a subversive group comprised of doll-sized soldiers. He encountered Uncle Sam and his latest version of Freedom Fighters. He told Uncle Sam that Doll Girl had died of cancer. Skills and Abilities Doll Man is a superb athlete and hand-to-hand combatant. By willing himself to do so, Doll Man can shrink to a height of six inches and proportionate weight. He can also will himself back to his normal size and weight. He wears a special costume that changes size as he does. Doll Man has aged little over the years, perhaps due to the mystic presence of Uncle Sam during his time in the Freedom Fighters.
