=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Jean, Grand Duke of Luxembourg - Wikipedia]
Jeanwas namedLieutenant-Representative of theGrandDuchesson 28 April 1961. [4] He became Grand Duke when his mother, Grand Duchess Charlotte, abdicated on 12 November 1964. [16]
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jean,_Grand_Duke_of_Luxembourg

[Jean (grand-duc de Luxembourg) — Wikipédia]
Nommélieutenant-représentant le 28 avril 1961,Jeande Luxembourg succède à sa mère qui abdique le 12 novembre 1964 et devient le nouveau grand-duc de Luxembourg.
URL: https://fr.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jean_(grand-duc_de_Luxembourg)

[Jean Benoît Guillaume Robert Antoine Louis Marie d'Aviano]
Apr 23, 2019 ·He served as theGrandDuke of Luxembourg from November 12, 1964 to October 7, 2000. BornJeanBenoîtGuillaumeRobertAntoineLouisMarieAdolpheMarcd’Aviano, he was the oldest son toGrandDuchessCharlotte of Luxembourg and Prince Felix.
URL: https://www.findagrave.com/memorial/198578431/jean_benoît_guillaume_robert_antoine_louis_marie-d'aviano

[Grand Duke Jean (1921–2019): a military man and ... - RTL]
Oct 9, 2025 ·In 1961,GrandDuchessCharlotte appointedJeanas herlieutenantrepresentative, gradually preparing him for leadership. On 12 November 1964, she abdicated, andJeanbecame the eighth...
URL: https://today.rtl.lu/luxembourg-insider/history/grand-duke-jean-1921-2019-a-military-man-and-dutiful-statesman-1267153

[Jean, Grand Duke of Luxembourg - Wikidata]
Feb 21, 2026 ·JeanBenoîtGuillaumeRobertAntoineLouisMarieAdolpheMarcd'Avianogrand-duc de Luxembourg de Luxembourg (Bourbon) aka Nassau-Weilburg (5 Jan 1921 - certain 23 Apr 2019)
URL: https://www.wikidata.org/wiki/Q15988


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Jean, Grand Duke of Luxembourg - Wikipedia] ---
Jean (Jean Benoît Guillaume Robert Antoine Louis Marie Adolphe Marc d'Aviano; 5 January 1921 – 23 April 2019) was Grand Duke of Luxembourg from 1964 until his abdication in 2000. He was the first Grand Duke of Luxembourg of French agnatic descent.
Jean was the eldest son of Grand Duchess Charlotte and Prince Felix. Jean's primary education was initially in Luxembourg, before attending Ampleforth College in England. In 1938, he was officially named Hereditary Grand Duke as heir apparent to the throne of Luxembourg. While Luxembourg was occupied by Germans during the Second World War, the grand ducal family was abroad in exile. Jean studied at the Université Laval in Quebec City. Jean later volunteered to join the British army's Irish Guards in 1942, and after graduating from the Royal Military Academy Sandhurst, received his commission in 1943. He participated in the Normandy landings and the Battle for Caen, and joined the Allied forces in the liberation of Luxembourg. From 1984 until 2000, he was Colonel of the Regiment of the Irish Guards.
On 9 April 1953, Jean married Princess Joséphine-Charlotte of Belgium, with whom he had five children. On 12 November 1964, Grand Duchess Charlotte abdicated and Jean succeeded her as Grand Duke of Luxembourg. He then reigned for 36 years before he himself abdicated on 7 October 2000 and was succeeded by his son Grand Duke Henri.


--- [Jean (grand-duc de Luxembourg) — Wikipédia] ---
Jean, né le 5 janvier 1921 au château de Colmar-Berg et mort le 23 avril 2019 à Luxembourg, est le huitième grand-duc de Luxembourg de 1964 à 2000.
Le grand-duc Jean est le neveu du dernier empereur d'Autriche et roi de Hongrie, Charles Ier, ainsi que le cousin du tsar Boris III de Bulgarie, de la reine Anne de Roumanie et du prétendant carliste au trône d’Espagne, le prince François-Xavier de Bourbon-Parme, duc de Parme. Il est en outre l'oncle par mariage de l'actuel roi des Belges, Philippe.


--- [Jean Benoît Guillaume Robert Antoine Louis Marie d'Aviano] ---
Luxembourg Royalty. He served as the Grand Duke of Luxembourg from November 12, 1964 to October 7, 2000. Born Jean Benoît Guillaume Robert Antoine Louis Marie Adolphe Marc d’Aviano, he was the oldest son to Grand Duchess Charlotte of Luxembourg and Prince Felix. When he was nineteen years old, he fled with the other members of the royal family after the German invasion of Luxembourg. He went on to live in exile with his family in various countries before going to Britain to volunteer for the Irish Guards and attend the Royal Military College at Sandhurst. On June 11, 1944, he landed near Bayeux, Normandy, France as part of the British army and later took part in both the battle of Caen and the liberation of Brussels, Belgium. He returned to Luxembourg in September of 1944, but continued to fight the Germans until their surrender. He welcomed his mother, the Grand Duchess Charlotte, back to liberated Luxembourg in April of 1945 and served as heir apparent to the throne until 1964. In November of 1964, his mother abdicated her throne to him and he went on to serve as the Grand Duke of Luxembourg until abdicating the throne to his son Henri in 2000. During his reign, Luxembourg became a center for financial services after decades of economic decline. He passed away from a pulmonary infection. Luxembourg Royalty. He served as the Grand Duke of Luxembourg from November 12, 1964 to October 7, 2000. Born Jean Benoît Guillaume Robert Antoine Louis Marie Adolphe Marc d’Aviano, he was the oldest son to Grand Duchess Charlotte of Luxembourg and Prince Felix. When he was nineteen years old, he fled with the other members of the royal family after the German invasion of Luxembourg. He went on to live in exile with his family in various countries before going to Britain to volunteer for the Irish Guards and attend the Royal Military College at Sandhurst. On June 11, 1944, he landed near Bayeux, Normandy, France as part of the British army and later took part in both the battle of Caen and the liberation of Brussels, Belgium. He returned to Luxembourg in September of 1944, but continued to fight the Germans until their surrender. He welcomed his mother, the Grand Duchess Charlotte, back to liberated Luxembourg in April of 1945 and served as heir apparent to the throne until 1964. In November of 1964, his mother abdicated her throne to him and he went on to serve as the Grand Duke of Luxembourg until abdicating the throne to his son Henri in 2000. During his reign, Luxembourg became a center for financial services after decades of economic decline. He passed away from a pulmonary infection. Add Photos for Jean Benoît Guillaume Robert Antoine Louis Marie... Fulfill Photo Request for Jean Benoît Guillaume Robert Antoine Louis... Photo Request Fulfilled Thank you for fulfilling this photo request. An email has been sent to the person who requested the photo informing them that you have fulfilled their request There is an open photo request for this memorial Are you adding a grave photo that will fulfill this request? Oops, some error occurred while uploading your photo(s). Oops, something didn't work. Close this window, and upload the photo(s) again. Make sure that the file is a photo. Photos larger than 8 MB will be reduced. Photos larger than 20 MB will not be accepted. All photos uploaded successfully, click on the <b>Done button</b> to see the photos in the gallery. General photo guidelines: Photos larger than 8.0 MB will be optimized and reduced. Photos larger than 20 MB will not be accepted. Each contributor can upload a maximum of 5 photos for a memorial. A memorial can have a maximum of 20 photos from all contributors. The sponsor of a memorial may add an additional 10 photos (for a total of 30 on the memorial). Include gps location with grave photos where possible. No animated GIFs, photos with additional graphics (borders, embellishments.) You are only allowed to leave one flower per day for any given memorial. Memorial Photos This is a carousel with slides. Use Next and Previous buttons to navigate, or jump to a slide with the slide dots. Use Escape keyboard button or the Close button to close the carousel. Quickly see who the memorial is for and when they lived and died and where they are buried. Show Map If the memorial includes GPS coordinates, simply click 'Show Map' to view the gravesite location within the cemetery. If no GPS coordinates are available, you can contribute by adding them if you know the precise location. Photos For memorials with more than one photo, additional photos will appear here or on the photos tab. Photos Tab All photos appear on this tab and here you can update the sort order of photos on memorials you manage. To view a photo in more detail or edit captions for photos you added, click the photo to open the photo viewer. Flowers Flowers added to the memorial appear on the bottom of the memorial or here on the Flowers tab. To add a flower, click the Leave a Flower button. Family Members Family members linked to this person will appear here. Related searches Use the links under See more… to quickly search for other people with the same last name in the same cemetery, city, county, etc. Sponsor This Memorial Remove advertising from a memorial by sponsoring it for <strong>just $10</strong>. Previously sponsored memorials or famous memorials will not have this option. Share Share this memorial using social media sites or email. Save to Save to an Ancestry Tree, a virtual cemetery, your clipboard for pasting or Print. Edit or Suggest Edit Edit a memorial you manage or suggest changes to the memorial manager. Have Feedback Thanks for using Find a Grave, if you have any feedback we would love to hear from you. This photo is larger than 20 MB. Please resize to less than 20 MB and try again. You may not upload any more photos to this memorial There was a problem uploading this image "Unsupported file type" Uploading... Waiting... Success Failed Duplicate photo Not image owner Photo status will not allow linking This photo has already been added to this memorial This photo was not uploaded because this memorial already has photos This photo was not uploaded because you have already uploaded photos to this memorial This photo was not uploaded because this memorial already has photos This photo was not uploaded because you have already uploaded photos to this memorial Invalid File Type Uploading 1 Photo Uploading 2 Photos 1 Photo Uploaded 2 Photos Uploaded Added by GREAT NEWS! There is 1 volunteer for this cemetery. Sorry! There are no volunteers for this cemetery. Continuing with this request will add an alert to the cemetery page and any new volunteers will have the opportunity to fulfill your request. Enter numeric value Enter memorial Id Year should not be greater than current year Invalid memorial Duplicate entry for memorial You have chosen this person to be their own family member. Reported! This relationship is not possible based on lifespan dates. 0% Complete Saved Sign in or Register Sign in to Find a Grave Sign-in to link to existing account There is a problem with your email/password. There is a problem with your email/password. There is a problem with your email/password. We encountered an unknown problem. Please wait a few minutes and try again. If the problem persists contact Find a Grave. We’ve updated the security on the site. Please reset your password. Your account has been locked for 30 minutes due to too many failed sign in attempts. Please contact Find a Grave at [email protected] if you need help resetting your password. This account has been disabled. If you have questions, please contact [email protected] This account has been disabled. If you have questions, please contact [email protected] Email not found Please complete the captcha to let us know you are a real person. Sign in to your existing Find a Grave account. You’ll only have to do this once—after your accounts are connected, you can sign in using your Ancestry sign in or your Find a Grave sign in. We found an existing Find a Grave account associated with your email address. Sign in below with your Find a Grave credentials to link your Ancestry account. After your accounts are connected you can sign in using either account. Please enter your email to sign in. Please enter your password to sign in. Please enter your email and password to sign in. There is a problem with your email/password. A system error has occurred. Please try again later. A password reset email has been sent to EmailID. If you don't see an email, please check your spam folder. We encountered an unknown problem. Please wait a few minutes and try again. If the problem persists contact Find a Grave. Password Reset Please enter your email address and we will send you an email with a reset password code. or Registration Options Welcome to Find a Grave Create your free account by choosing an option below. or Ancestry account link To create your account, Ancestry will share your name and email address with Find a Grave. To continue choose an option below. or If you already have a Find a Grave account, please sign in to link to Ancestry®. New Member Registration Email is mandatory Email and Password are mandatory This account already exists, but the email address still needs to be confirmed. Resend Activation Email Your password is not strong enough Invalid Email You must agree to Terms and Conditions Account already exists Please check the I'm not a robot checkbox Internal Server error occurred If you want to be a Photo Volunteer you must enter a ZIP Code or select your location on the map You must select an email preference We have sent you an activation email Your new password must contain one or more uppercase and lowercase letters, and one or more numbers or special characters. We just emailed an activation code to Please check your email and click on the link to activate your account. cemeteries found in will be saved to your photo volunteer list. cemeteries found within miles of your location will be saved to your photo volunteer list. cemeteries found within kilometers of your location will be saved to your photo volunteer list. Within 5 miles of your location. Within 5 kilometers of your location. 0 cemeteries found in . 0 cemeteries found. Add a cemetery to fulfill photo requests You can customize the cemeteries you volunteer for by selecting or deselecting below. Search above to list available cemeteries. Getting location… Loading... Loading... No cemeteries found Find a Grave Video Tutorials Default Language Translation on Find a Grave is an ongoing project. If you notice a problem with the translation, please send a message to [email protected] and include a link to the page and details about the problem. Thanks for your help! Preferred Language We have set your language to English based on information from your browser. You can choose another language below: Welcome Back! Thanks for signing in. Your account will not be marked as inactive. To make any adjustments to your photo volunteering settings, notification settings, and more, visit your Account Settings. Learn more about your account and how you can help and contribute at Find a Grave. Your account has been reactivated. To make any adjustments to your photo volunteering settings, notification settings, and more, visit your Account Settings. Learn more about your account and how you can help and contribute at Find a Grave here . To make any adjustments to your photo volunteering settings, notification settings, and more, visit your Account Settings. Learn more about your account and how you can help and contribute at Find a Grave here . Sign out successful Return to the email you received and click on the link to contact us.


--- [Grand Duke Jean (1921–2019): a military man and ... - RTL] ---
Prince Jean Benoît Guillaume Robert Antoine Louis Marie Adolphe Marc d’Aviano, better known as Grand Duke Jean, was born on 5 January 1921 as the first child of Grand Duchess Charlotte and Prince Felix of Bourbon-Parma. He died on 23 April 2019 at the age of 98. Jean was named after Count John the Blind, the King of Bohemia and Count of Luxembourg (1296–1346), while his second name, Benoît, was in honour of his godfather, Pope Benedict XV. He had five younger siblings: Princesses Élisabeth, Marie-Adélaïde, Marie-Gabrielle and Alix, and Prince Charles. Prince Jean grew up in Berg Castle and attended primary and secondary school in Luxembourg before continuing his education at Ampleforth College in Yorkshire. Known as the ‘Catholic Eton,’ Ampleforth was a popular choice for European Catholic aristocracy, and some of Prince Jean’s grandchildren would later attend the same school. He later studied Law and Political Science at Laval University in Quebec City, Canada. In 1939, Prince Jean reached maturity, was named Hereditary Grand Duke, and officially recognised as heir apparent to Grand Duchess Charlotte, just months before the outbreak of the Second World War. When German forces invaded Luxembourg on 10 May 1940, Prince Jean and his family fled into exile. He was only 19 years old at that time. They initially lived in Paris before moving to the United States, where Jean began his university studies. In 1942, he moved to the United Kingdom and joined the British Army’s Irish Guards regiment on King George VI’s advice. He trained at the famous Royal Military Academy Sandhurst and graduated as a second lieutenant in 1943. On the day of his graduation, he addressed the Luxembourg nation via BBC radio, letting them know that they had not been forgotten. As an active soldier, Prince Jean was involved in some of the most momentous battles of the 20th century: He landed in Normandy on 11 June 1944, fought in the Battle for Caen, and participated in the liberation of Brussels on 3 September 1944. He re-entered Luxembourg on 10 September, crossing the border at Rodange alongside his father and American troops. His military service continued during the Battle of the Bulge, and he was involved in campaigns in Arnhem, the Ardennes, and Germany until the Nazi surrender in May 1945. Only seven days later, he triumphantly returned to the newly-liberated Luxembourg, side by side with his father and a host of American soldiers. It only proved to be a short reprieve. When the German forces mounted an attack known as the Battle of the Bulge, in which almost 20,000 allied troops lost their lives, Prince Jean re-joined his division between Tienen and Namur. On 14 April 1945, the war was officially over for Luxembourg when the Hereditary Grand Duke joined Grand Duchess Charlotte and her consort Prince Felix in their return to the Grand Duchy. He later received multiple military decorations in recognition of his service. In 1951, Prince Jean joined the State Council, remaining a member until his mother appointed him official lieutenant to the Chamber of Deputies in 1961. In 1952, the Hereditary Grand Duke became engaged to Princess Joséphine-Charlotte of Belgium, daughter of Leopold III and sister to King Baudouin. The wedding plans were announced on 26 December 1952. On 9 April 1953, Prince Jean married Princess Joséphine-Charlotte of Belgium at Luxembourg City Cathedral. The Hereditary Grand Duke and his young bride settled in at Betzdorf Castle and soon started a family. Princess Joséphine-Charlotte gave birth to five children, who were all born at Betzdorf Castle: Princess Marie-Astrid, Prince Henri, Prince Jean, Princess Margaretha and Prince Guillaume. In 1961, Grand Duchess Charlotte appointed Jean as her lieutenant representative, gradually preparing him for leadership. On 12 November 1964, she abdicated, and Jean became the eighth sovereign of Luxembourg. He dutifully picked up his mother’s mantle and became the 8th Luxembourg sovereign since the founding of the Grand Duchy in 1815. It is safe to say that no other monarch has seen Luxembourg undergo such stark changes during his reign as Grand Duke Jean. He was the head of state for 36 years and in this time, the Grand Duchy transformed from an agricultural and industrial country with a booming metallurgy sector in to a thriving international finance hub. He witnessed the creation of the European Union and the Schengen Agreement, both of which Luxembourg helped to establish. Though he remained politically neutral, he met with world leaders to promote Luxembourg’s interests. In June 1972, Grand Duke Jean and Grand Duchess Joséphine-Charlotte visited Britain to mark the UK’s entry into the Common Market. Queen Elizabeth II appointed him a Stranger Knight of the Order of the Garter. He also received the Charlemagne Prize in 1986 for his role in European integration. A lifelong supporter of scouting, he served as Chief Scout of Luxembourg from 1945 and became a member of the Baden-Powell World Fellowship in 1989. His contributions to sports led to his recognition as an Honorary Member of the International Olympic Committee in 1998. On 24 December 1999, Grand Duke Jean announced his intention to abdicate, stating: “At the dawn of the new millennium, and after reigning for more than 35 years, it is wise for me to retire from state matters.” On 7 October 2000, he formally abdicated in favour of his son, Grand Duke Henri. Grand Duke Jean and Grand Duchess Joséphine-Charlotte moved to Fischbach Castle in 2002. However, Joséphine-Charlotte passed away in 2005 after a battle with cancer. In 2006, the Grand Duke Jean Museum of Modern Art (Mudam) was inaugurated in his honour. He remained active in public life until his later years, occasionally making appearances at national events. Grand Duke Jean was hospitalised in December 2016 due to bronchitis but recovered. In April 2019, he was admitted to hospital with a pulmonary infection. He passed away on 23 April 2019 at the age of 98. At the time of his death, he had five children, 22 grandchildren, and 15 great-grandchildren. Before his passing, he was the world’s oldest living monarch. His legacy as a soldier, statesman, and advocate for European unity remains deeply embedded in Luxembourg’s history.


--- [Jean, Grand Duke of Luxembourg - Wikidata] ---
Jean, Grand Duke of Luxembourg (Q15988) Appearance Monarch of Luxembourg (1964-2000) - Grand Duke Jean I - John of Luxembourg - Jean Benoît Guillaume Robert Antoine Louis Marie Adolphe Marc d'Aviano - Grand Duke Jean I of Luxembourg, Duke of Nassau - Jean I, Grand Duke of Luxembourg | Language | Label | Description | Also known as | |---|---|---|---| | default for all languages | No label defined | || | English | Jean, Grand Duke of Luxembourg | Monarch of Luxembourg (1964-2000) | | Statements الغراندوق سنة 1967 (Arabic) De Groussherzog Jean (1967) (Luxembourgish) 1967 0 references Jean vu Lëtzebuerg (Luxembourgish) 0 references 1 reference no value 0 references 5 January 1921Gregorian 4 references Jean Bernot Guillaume de Nassau, Grand-Duc de Luxembourg 23 April 2019 4 references Le Grand-Duc Jean est décédé: le deuil national proclamé (French) 23 April 2019 5minutes.rtl.lu (French) 16 June 2019 9 April 1953 10 January 2005 1 reference 7 August 2020 12 November 1964 7 October 2000 0 references 22 November 1976 18 July 1951 1 reference 26 October 1973 29 January 1985 16 June 1983 1 reference Bronze Wolf Awardees (English) 21 February 2026 1 reference 1952 Helsingin olympialaiset (Finnish) 25 July 2024 Jean of Luxembourg 0 references Identifiers 1 reference 25 November 2017 1 reference 1 reference 1 reference Jean <Luxemburg, Großherzog,I.> 1 reference 23 October 2017 Giovanni granduca di Lussemburgo 1 reference 12 March 2022 Jean Bernot Guillaume de Nassau, Grand-Duc de Luxembourg 1 reference 7 August 2020 Jean Benoît Guillaume Robert Antoine Louis Marie Adolphe Marc d'Aviano grand-duc de Luxembourg de Luxembourg (Bourbon) aka Nassau-Weilburg (5 Jan 1921 - certain 23 Apr 2019) 0 references Sitelinks Wikipedia(46 entries) - arwiki جان (دوق لوكسمبورغ الأكبر) - arzwiki جان بنوا جراندوق لوكسمبورج - astwiki Xuan de Luxemburgu - azbwiki ژان، دوک اعظم لوقزامبورق - bewiki Жан (вялікі герцаг Люксембурга) - bswiki Jean, veliki vojvoda Luksemburga - cawiki Joan I de Luxemburg - cswiki Jan Lucemburský (velkovévoda) - cywiki Jean, Uwch Ddug Lwcsembwrg - dawiki Jean af Luxembourg - dewiki Jean (Luxemburg) - elwiki Ιωάννης του Λουξεμβούργου (1921-2019) - enwiki Jean, Grand Duke of Luxembourg - eowiki Jean (Luksemburgo) - eswiki Juan de Luxemburgo - etwiki Jean (Luksemburgi suurhertsog) - euwiki Joan Luxenburgokoa - fawiki ژان، دوک اعظم لوکزامبورگ - fiwiki Jean (Luxemburg) - frwiki Jean (grand-duc de Luxembourg) - furwiki Zuan dal Lussemburc - hewiki ז'אן, הדוכס הגדול של לוקסמבורג - hrwiki Jean, veliki vojvoda Luksemburga - huwiki János luxemburgi nagyherceg - idwiki Jean dari Luksemburg - iswiki Jóhann af Lúxemborg - itwiki Giovanni di Lussemburgo - jawiki ジャン (ルクセンブルク大公) - kawiki ჟანი (ლუქსემბურგი) - kowiki 장 (룩셈부르크) - lawiki Ioannes (magnus dux Luxemburgi) - lbwiki Jean vu Lëtzebuerg - nlwiki Jean van Luxemburg (1921-2019) - nowiki Jean av Luxembourg - plwiki Jan (wielki książę Luksemburga) - ptwiki João, Grão-Duque de Luxemburgo - rowiki Jean, Mare Duce de Luxemburg - ruwiki Жан (великий герцог Люксембурга) - simplewiki Jean, Grand Duke of Luxembourg - srwiki Жан од Луксембурга - svwiki Jean av Luxemburg - thwiki แกรนด์ดยุกฌ็องแห่งลักเซมเบิร์ก - trwiki Jean (Lüksemburg büyük dükü) - ukwiki Жан (великий герцог Люксембургу) - viwiki Jean của Luxembourg - zhwiki 让 (卢森堡大公) Wikibooks(0 entries) Wikinews(0 entries) Wikiquote(0 entries) Wikisource(0 entries) Wikiversity(0 entries) Wikivoyage(0 entries) Wiktionary(0 entries) Multilingual sites(1 entry) - commonswiki Jean of Luxembourg
