=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[NASA Astronaut Group 8 - Wikipedia]
NASA Astronaut Group 8 was a group of 35 astronauts announced on January 16, 1978. It was the first NASA selection since Group 6 in 1967, and was the largest group to that date.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/NASA_Astronaut_Group_8

[NASA Astronaut Group 8 - Wikiwand]
Oct 11, 2024 · NASA Astronaut Group 8 was a group of 35 astronauts announced on January 16, 1978. It was the first NASA selection since Group 6 in 1967, and was the largest group to that date.
URL: https://www.wikiwand.com/en/articles/Thirty-Five_New_Guys

[Sally Ride – First American Woman in Space]
Jun 18, 2018 — On June 18, 1983, NASA Astronaut Sally K. Ride became the first American woman in space, when she launched with her four crewmates aboard the Space Shuttle ...
URL: https://www.nasa.gov/history/sally-ride-first-american-woman-in-space/

[NASA Selects All-American 2025 Class of Astronaut Candidates]
Sep 22, 2025 · NASA announced its 2025 Astronaut Candidate Class on Sept. 22, 2025.
URL: https://www.nasa.gov/news-release/nasa-selects-all-american-2025-class-of-astronaut-candidates/

[U.S. Astronaut Selection Drafts And Qualifications | Spaceline]
NASA Group 15 (Pilots and Mission Specialists) January, 1995 NASA Group 16 (Pilots and Mission Specialists) April, 1996 NASA Group 17 (Pilots and Mission Specialists) June, 1998 NASA Group 18 (Pilots and Mission Specialists) August, 2000 NASA Group 19 (Pilots and Mission Specialists) May, 2004 Post Space Shuttle Astronaut Qualifications
URL: https://www.spaceline.org/united-states-manned-space-flight/us-astronaut-selection-drafts-and-qualifications/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [NASA Astronaut Group 8 - Wikipedia] ---
NASA Astronaut Group 8 was a group of 35 astronauts announced on January 16, 1978. It was the first NASA selection since Group 6 in 1967, and was the largest group to that date. The class was the first to include female and minority astronauts; of the 35 selected, six were women, one of them being Jewish American, three were African American, and one was Asian American. Due to the long delay between the last Apollo lunar mission in 1972 and the first flight of the Space Shuttle in 1981, few astronauts from the older groups remained, and they were outnumbered by the newcomers, who became known as the Thirty-Five New Guys (TFNG). Since then, a new group of candidates has been selected roughly every two years.
In Astronaut Group 8, two different kinds of astronaut were selected: pilots and mission specialists. The group consisted of 15 pilots, all test pilots, and 20 mission specialists. NASA stopped sending non-pilots for one year of pilot training. It also ceased appointing astronauts on selection. Instead, starting with this group, new selections were considered astronaut candidates rather than fully-fledged astronauts until they finished their training.
Four members of this group, Dick Scobee, Judith Resnik, Ellison Onizuka, and Ronald McNair, died in the Space Shuttle Challenger disaster. These four, plus Shannon Lucid, received the Congressional Space Medal of Honor, giving this astronaut class five total recipients of this top NASA award.  This is second only to the New Nine class of 1962, which received seven. The careers of the TFNGs would span the entire Space Shuttle Program. They reshaped the image of the American astronaut into one that more closely resembled the diversity of American society, and opened the doors for others that would follow.


--- [NASA Astronaut Group 8 - Wikiwand] ---
English Sign in Top Qs Timeline Chat Perspective All Articles Dictionary Quotes Map Remove ads Loading article...


--- [Sally Ride – First American Woman in Space] ---
On June 18, 1983, NASA Astronaut Sally K. Ride became the first American woman in space, when she launched with her four crewmates aboard the Space Shuttle Challenger on mission STS-7. Ride and five other women had been selected in 1978 for NASA Astronaut Group 8, the first American selection class to include females. With the advent of the space shuttle, NASA expanded astronaut selection from only pilots to scientists and engineers, and women became eligible for selection. NASA announced Ride and her classmates to the public on Jan. 16, 1978. After completing astronaut training, the Class of 1978 astronauts became eligible for ground and flight assignments. Ride served as Capsule Communicator (CAPCOM) for STS-2 and STS-3 in late 1981 and early 1982, and became an expert in the use of the shuttle’s robotic arm. On April 30, 1982, NASA announced that Ride would serve as a Mission Specialist on STS-7, a satellite deployment and retrieval mission on board the Space Shuttle Challenger. Her crewmates were Commander Robert L. Crippen, Pilot Frederick H. “Rick” Hauck, and Mission Specialist John M. Fabian. NASA added physician-astronaut Norman E. Thagard to the crew in January 1983 to conduct in-flight studies of space motion sickness, a condition that afflicted about one-third to one-half of all space travelers. Thagard’s addition marked the largest crew flown in a single spacecraft to date. During the six-day mission, the most complex in the shuttle program to date, the crew launched two commercial communications satellites, Anik C3 for Canada’s Telesat and Palapa B2 for Indonesia. Ride used the Shuttle’s robotic arm to deploy the first Shuttle Pallet Satellite (SPAS-01) and retrieve it two days later, the first time the Shuttle was used to return a spacecraft to Earth. The SPAS-01 satellite took some amazing photographs of Challenger as the two spacecraft flew in formation. Although originally planned to conduct the first shuttle landing at Kennedy Space Center, inclement weather in Florida forced a diversion to Edwards Air Force Base in California. Touchdown occurred June 24. Ride’s launch on STS-7 occurred almost to the day of the 20th anniversary of the launch of the first woman in space, Soviet cosmonaut Valentina V. Tereshkova. After the successful flight of Yuri Gagarin, the first man in space in April 1961, Soviet Chief Designer Sergey Korolyov had the idea of flying a woman in space. To find a suitable candidate, he looked outside the field of military pilots. Although piloting was not a requirement for the female candidates (the Vostok spaceship was more or less automated), parachuting was, because after reentry Vostok cosmonauts ejected from the capsule and parachuted to the ground separately. About 400 female candidates initially were screened and 40 were called to Moscow to undergo interviews and medical and other tests. Valentina Tereshkova was one of five women selected on Feb. 16, 1962. Tereshkova launched into space June 16, 1963, aboard Vostok-6 using the call sign Chaika (чайка), or Seagull. Her mission was part of the second group flight launched by the Soviets, with fellow cosmonaut Valery Bykovsky launching two days earlier aboard Vostok-5. During Tereshkova’s first orbit, the two spacecraft came within three miles of each other and the two cosmonauts talked to each other by radio, before drifting apart and completing their separate missions. She circled the Earth 48 times over three days and made a successful parachute landing June 19. Sally Ride and Valentina Tereshkova made their marks on history. Despite the camaraderie between astronauts and cosmonauts even during the height of the Cold War and the thaw afterwards, there’s no indication that the two ever met. In their own ways, the two were trailblazers for women who followed their footsteps in the conquest of space.


--- [NASA Selects All-American 2025 Class of Astronaut Candidates] ---
Editor’s Note: This release was updated on Sept. 26, 2025, to reflect a change to NASA astronaut candidates’ next media availability. That opportunity now will take place on Friday, Oct. 3. Lee este comunicado de prensa en español aquí. NASA’s 10 new astronaut candidates were introduced Monday following a competitive selection process of more than 8,000 applicants from across the United States. The class now will complete nearly two years of training before becoming eligible for flight assignments supporting future science and exploration missions to low Earth orbit, the Moon, and Mars. Acting NASA Administrator Sean Duffy welcomed the all-American 2025 astronaut candidate class during a ceremony at the agency’s Johnson Space Center in Houston. “I’m honored to welcome the next generation of American explorers to our agency! More than 8,000 people applied – scientists, pilots, engineers, dreamers from every corner of this nation. The 10 men and women sitting here today embody the truth that in America, regardless of where you start, there is no limit to what a determined dreamer can achieve – even going to space,” said Duffy. “Together, we’ll unlock the Golden Age of exploration.” The agency’s 24th astronaut class reported for duty at NASA Johnson in mid-September and immediately began their training. Their curriculum includes instruction and skills development for complex operations aboard the International Space Station, Artemis missions to the Moon, and beyond. Specifically, training includes robotics, land and water survival, geology, foreign language, space medicine and physiology, and more, while also conducting simulated spacewalks and flying high-performance jets. After graduation, the 2025 class will join the agency’s active astronaut corps. Active astronauts are conducting science research aboard the space station while preparing for the transition to commercial space stations and the next great leaps in human exploration at the Moon and Mars. The candidates’ operational expertise, scientific knowledge, and technical backgrounds are essential to advancing NASA’s deep space exploration goals and sustaining a long-term human presence beyond low Earth orbit. The 2025 astronaut candidates are: Ben Bailey, 38, chief warrant officer 3, U.S. Army, was born and raised in Charlottesville, Virginia. He has a bachelor’s degree in mechanical engineering from the University of Virginia and is completing a master’s in systems engineering at the Naval Postgraduate School in Monterey, California. Bailey is a U.S. Naval Test Pilot School graduate with more than 2,000 flight hours in more than 30 different rotary and fixed-wing aircraft. At the time of his selection, Bailey was responsible for the developmental testing of emerging technologies aboard Army rotary wing aircraft, specializing in the UH-60 Black Hawk and CH-47F Chinook. Lauren Edgar, 40, considers Sammamish, Washington, her hometown. She earned a bachelor’s degree in Earth sciences from Dartmouth College, and her master’s and doctorate in geology from the California Institute of Technology. Edgar has served as the deputy principal investigator for the Artemis III Geology Team. In this role, she helped define lunar science goals, geology activities NASA astronauts will conduct, and science operations for NASA’s return to the Moon. She also spent more than 17 years supporting Mars exploration rovers. She was working at the U.S. Geological Survey at the time of her selection. Adam Fuhrmann, 35, major, U.S. Air Force, is from Leesburg, Virginia, and has accumulated more than 2,100 flight hours in 27 aircraft, including the F-16 and F-35. He holds a bachelor’s degree in aerospace engineering from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and master’s degrees in flight test engineering and systems engineering from the U.S. Air Force Test Pilot School and Purdue University, respectively. He has deployed in support of Operations Freedom’s Sentinel and Resolute Support, logging 400 combat hours. At the time of his selection, Fuhrmann served as the director of operations for an Air Force flight test unit. Cameron Jones, 35, major, U.S. Air Force, is a native of Savanna, Illinois. He holds bachelor’s and master’s degrees in aerospace engineering from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. He is also a graduate of the U.S. Air Force Test Pilot School at Edwards Air Force Base in California and the U.S. Air Force Weapons School at Nellis Air Force Base in Nevada. He’s an experienced test pilot with more than 1,600 flight hours in more than 30 different aircraft, including 150 combat hours. The majority of his flight time is in the F-22 Raptor. At the time of his selection, Jones was an Air Force Academic Fellow at the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency. Yuri Kubo, 40, is a native of Columbus, Indiana. He earned a bachelor’s degree in electrical engineering and a master’s in electrical and computer engineering from Purdue University. He spent 12 years working across various teams at SpaceX, including as launch director for Falcon 9 rocket launches, director of avionics for the Starshield program, and director of Ground Segment. Earlier in his career, Kubo was a co-op student at NASA Johnson, where he completed multiple tours supporting the Orion spacecraft, the International Space Station, and the Space Shuttle Program. At the time of his selection, Kubo was the senior vice president of Engineering at Electric Hydrogen. Rebecca Lawler, 38, is a native of Little Elm, Texas, and a former lieutenant commander in the U.S. Navy. She is a former Navy P-3 pilot and experimental test pilot with more than 2,800 flight hours in more than 45 aircraft. Lawler holds a bachelor’s degree in mechanical engineering from the U.S. Naval Academy and master’s degrees from Johns Hopkins University and the National Test Pilot School. She also is a U.S. Naval Test Pilot School graduate. Lawler also flew as a National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration hurricane hunter and during NASA’s Operation IceBridge. She was a test pilot for United Airlines at the time of selection. Anna Menon, 39, is from Houston and earned her bachelor’s degree from Texas Christian University with a double major in mathematics and Spanish. She also holds a master’s in biomedical engineering from Duke University. Menon previously worked in the Mission Control Center at NASA Johnson, supporting medical hardware and software aboard the International Space Station. In 2024, Menon flew to space as a mission specialist and medical officer aboard SpaceX’s Polaris Dawn. The mission saw a new female altitude record, the first commercial spacewalk, and the completion of approximately 40 research experiments. At the time of her selection, Menon was a senior engineer at SpaceX. Imelda Muller, 34, considers Copake Falls, New York, her hometown. She formerly was a lieutenant in the U.S. Navy and served as an undersea medical officer after training at the Naval Undersea Medical Institute. Muller earned a bachelor’s degree in behavioral neuroscience from Northeastern University and a medical degree from the University of Vermont College of Medicine. Her experience includes providing medical support during Navy operational diving training at NASA’s Neutral Buoyancy Laboratory. At the time of her selection, Muller was completing a residency in anesthesia at Johns Hopkins School of Medicine in Baltimore. Erin Overcash, 34, lieutenant commander, U.S. Navy, is from Goshen, Kentucky. She holds a bachelor’s degree in aerospace engineering and a master’s in bioastronautics from the University of Colorado, Boulder. A U.S. Naval Test Pilot School graduate, Overcash is an experienced F/A-18E and F/A-18F Super Hornet pilot with multiple deployments. She has logged more than 1,300 flight hours in 20 aircraft, including 249 carrier arrested landings. Overcash was part of the Navy’s World Class Athlete Program and trained full-time at the Olympic Training Center with the USA Rugby Women’s National Team. She was training for a squadron department head tour at the time of selection. Katherine Spies, 43, is a native of San Diego and holds a bachelor’s degree in chemical engineering from the University of Southern California and a master’s in design engineering from Harvard University. She is a former Marine Corps AH-1 attack helicopter pilot and experimental test pilot, with more than 2,000 flight hours in more than 30 different aircraft. A graduate of the U.S. Naval Test Pilot School, she served as UH-1Y/AH-1Z project officer and AH-1W platform coordinator during her time on active duty. At the time of her selection, Spies was the director of flight test engineering at Gulfstream Aerospace Corporation. With the addition of these 10 individuals, NASA now has recruited 370 astronaut candidates since selecting the original Mercury Seven in 1959. “Today, our mission propels us even further as we prepare for our next giant leap with NASA’s newest astronaut candidate class,” said Vanessa Wyche, director of NASA Johnson. “Representing America’s best and brightest, this astronaut candidate class will usher in the Golden Age of innovation and exploration as we push toward the Moon and Mars.” The astronaut candidates will be available to speak with media virtually and in-person on Friday, Oct. 3. Media interested in this limited opportunity should contact the NASA Johnson Newsroom at 281-483-5111 or jsccommu@mail.nasa.gov. NASA’s media accreditation policy is available online. Find photos and additional information about the new astronaut candidates at: https://www.nasa.gov/astronauts -end- Bethany Stevens / Jimi Russell Headquarters, Washington 202-358-1100 bethany.c.stevens@nasa.gov / james.j.russell@nasa.gov Chelsey Ballarte Johnson Space Center, Houston 281-483-5111 chelsey.n.ballarte@nasa.gov


--- [U.S. Astronaut Selection Drafts And Qualifications | Spaceline] ---
U.S. Astronaut Selection Drafts Index NASA Group 1 (Mercury Astronauts) April, 1959 NASA Group 2 (Pilot Astronauts) September, 1962 Air Force X-20 “Dyna-Soar” Program (Pilot Astronauts) September, 1962 NASA Group 3 (Pilot Astronauts) October, 1963 NASA Group 4 (Scientist Astronauts) June, 1965 Air Force Manned Orbiting Laboratory Group 1 (Pilot Astronauts) November, 1965 NASA Group 5 (Pilot Astronauts) April, 1966 Air Force Manned Orbiting Laboratory Group 2 (Pilot Astronauts) June, 1966 Air Force Manned Orbiting Laboratory Group 3 (Pilot Astronauts) June, 1967 NASA Group 6 (Scientist Astronauts) August, 1967 NASA Group 7 (MOL Pilot Astronaut Transfers) August, 1969 Space Shuttle Astronaut Qualifications NASA Group 8 (Pilots and Mission Specialists) January, 1978 NASA Group 9 (Pilots and Mission Specialists) January, 1980 NASA Group 10 (Pilots and Mission Specialists) May, 1984 NASA Group 11 (Pilots and Mission Specialists) June, 1985 NASA Group 12 (Pilots and Mission Specialists) August, 1987 NASA Group 13 (Pilots and Mission Specialists) January, 1990 NASA Group 14 (Pilots and Mission Specialists) March, 1992 NASA Group 15 (Pilots and Mission Specialists) January, 1995 NASA Group 16 (Pilots and Mission Specialists) April, 1996 NASA Group 17 (Pilots and Mission Specialists) June, 1998 NASA Group 18 (Pilots and Mission Specialists) August, 2000 NASA Group 19 (Pilots and Mission Specialists) May, 2004 Post Space Shuttle Astronaut Qualifications NASA Group 20 (Astronauts) August, 2009 NASA Group 21 (Astronauts) June, 2013 NASA Group 22 (Astronauts) June, 2017 Appendix: Space Shuttle Payload Specialists Not Drafted By NASA Appendix: The X-15 Astronauts
