=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[323 Brucia - Wikipedia]
Discovered on December 22, 1891, when he was 28 years old, it was named in honour of Catherine Wolfe Bruce, a noted patroness of the science of astronomy, who had donated $10,000 for the construction of the telescope used by Wolf. The asteroid is a member of the Phocaea family (701), a large ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/323_Brucia

[323 Brucia - Wikiwand]
Discovered on 22 December 1891, when he was 28 years old, it was named in honour of Catherine Wolfe Bruce, a noted patroness of the science of astronomy, who had donated $10,000 for the construction of the telescope used by Wolf.[2][15] The ...
URL: https://www.wikiwand.com/en/articles/323_Brucia

[Max Wolf | Astronomer, Astronomy, Celestial | Britannica]
Max Wolf (born June 21, 1863, Heidelberg, Baden [Germany]—died Oct. 3, 1932, Heidelberg) was a German astronomer who applied photography to the search for asteroids and discovered 228 of them.
URL: https://www.britannica.com/biography/Max-Wolf

[The discovery and naming of Trojan asteroids - Martin Connors, 2024]
Figure 4. Small portion (about 2° × 1.5°, N at bottom) of the digitized discovery plate of asteroid 323 Brucia, one of a pair taken on December 22, 1891 from Wolf’s home observatory.
URL: https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/10.1177/00218286231221166

[323 Brucia – Little Bits of History]
December 22, 1891: 323 Brucia is discovered. It was the first asteroid to be found by means of astrophotography. It is part of the Main belt (the asteroid belt between Mars and Jupiter.
URL: https://patriciahysell.wordpress.com/tag/323-brucia/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [323 Brucia - Wikipedia] ---
323 Brucia is a stony Phocaea asteroid and former Mars-crosser from the inner regions of the asteroid belt, approximately 33 kilometers (21 miles) in diameter. It was the first asteroid to be discovered by the use of astrophotography.


--- [323 Brucia - Wikiwand] ---
No content


--- [Max Wolf | Astronomer, Astronomy, Celestial | Britannica] ---
Max Wolf Max Wolf (born June 21, 1863, Heidelberg, Baden [Germany]—died Oct. 3, 1932, Heidelberg) was a German astronomer who applied photography to the search for asteroids and discovered 228 of them. Wolf showed an early interest in astronomy; he was only 21 years old when he discovered a comet, now named for him. In 1890 he was appointed Privatdozent (unsalaried lecturer) at the University of Heidelberg. One year later he adapted a camera to a motor-driven telescope to seek out asteroids. (All previous discoveries had been made one by one by direct observation.) Using a time exposure of the heavens, Wolf demonstrated that the asteroids, because of their orbital motion, would show up in the photograph as a short line rather than a point of light, which denoted a star. - In full: - Maximillian Franz Joseph Cornelius Wolf - Born: - June 21, 1863, Heidelberg, Baden [Germany] - Died: - Oct. 3, 1932, Heidelberg (aged 69) - Subjects Of Study: - asteroid In 1893 Wolf became director of the new Königstuhl Observatory and was appointed to an extraordinary professorship in astrophysics at Heidelberg; nine years later he was elected to the chair of astronomy at Heidelberg. Through his photographic studies he established the presence of dark clouds of interstellar matter in the Milky Way Galaxy, and he was the first to use the stereocomparator (a type of stereoscopic viewer), which greatly helps in the discovery and identification of variable or moving objects in celestial photographs. In 1906 he discovered Achilles, the first of the Trojan planets, two groups of asteroids that move around the Sun in Jupiter’s orbit: one group 60° ahead of Jupiter, the other 60° behind.


--- [The discovery and naming of Trojan asteroids - Martin Connors, 2024] ---
Lagrange and the three-body problem Celestial dynamics problems with more bodies than two are not exactly soluble in the general case. A three-body problem in which the bodies are in a straight line at constant separation, revolving at the same angular speed, may be set up in the inertial frame by equating centripetal acceleration to specific force using Newton’s second law. The solution of the resulting high-order equation is more difficult than the setup and was first treated by Leonhard Euler 6 in 1737. Joseph Louis Lagrange (1736–1813) provided an elegant solution to the three-body problem 7 which additionally included two other points, in an equilateral triangle, at which bodies could orbit retaining their geometry with respect to the two others. Lagrange was responding to a prize call by the Royal Academy of Sciences of Paris in 1772 for “perfecting the methods on which the lunar theory is founded.” The competing influences of the Earth and Sun on the Moon make its motion complex and the prototype of the gravitational three-body problem, sufficiently complex that only in the mid nineteenth century was it generally regarded as solved. 8 While Lagrange’s work fell short of the aim of providing a complete lunar theory, the possibility of five exact solutions to the three-body problem was of interest to practitioners of celestial mechanics. Although a practical reason for understanding the detailed motion of the Moon was not given in the prize call, the “lunar distance” method was important in navigation, for the determination of longitude, even after the invention of reliable chronometers by the Englishman John Harrison. In 1765 the British Board of Longitude awarded not only to Harrison, but in part to the widow of the German Johann Tobias Mayer, a prize for the determination of longitude at sea. 9 Both of their methods depended on having local knowledge of the time at the zero mark of longitude (Greenwich for the British then, and now for the entire world; Paris for the French at the time). With the perfected Harrison chronometer, that time could be kept on board ship. The alternate lunar distance method was based on measuring angles between the Moon and known fiducials in the sky to determine the celestial longitude of the Moon. After correction for parallax, the time at the longitude zero mark when the Moon was in that position could be determined by consulting tables. 10 The two methods used the local time as determined most usually from Sun sightings during the day and made available at night for the lunar method by a standard clock, which had sufficient accuracy for this purpose involving short periods of time. The difference between local time and that at the longitude zero mark, in hours, was the longitude in degrees when multiplied by 15. During the period from the development of the chronometer until the mid-19th century, the complex mechanical devices were very expensive, while lunar tables could be cheaply printed. The Astronomer Royal Nevil Maskelyne, appointed in 1765, encouraged use of tables in part for this practical reason, while officially supporting this by establishing the Nautical Almanac, the first edition of which appeared in 1767. 11 The lunar distance method, and by extension accurate lunar ephemerides, thus remained of great interest at the time Lagrange competed for the Paris prize. Not mentioning this considerable commercial and military value, the Royal Academy of Paris also noted secular changes in the Moon’s orbit as a subject of interest, despite Johann Tobias Mayer’s work of about twenty years earlier apparently resolving issues pointed out by Euler. With the rise of the mécaniciens such as Laplace and Lagrange, improving on Newton’s work in gravity, the French were also interested in possible imperfections in that theory as possibly revealed by the motion of the Moon and the yet unexplained Great Inequality in the motions of Jupiter and Saturn. 12 The prize was thus offered three times with increasing value, until Lagrange won it in 1772 with the Essai sur le problème des trois corps. 13 Lagrange’s solution did not require the third body to be of negligible mass and gave two classes of solution. Figure 1 illustrates the geometry of the three-body problem, overlain with positions of recently known Trojan asteroids. No comparable geometrical figure was made by Lagrange, who famously stated that “One will not find any figures in this work. The methods that I lay out need neither constructions nor mechanical or geometric reasoning, but only algebraic operations, in regular and uniform fashion.” 14 In the class of motion found by Euler, the three bodies are along the same line (collinear). What came to be called the L 1 and L 2 points are located near the planet, and these points are of modern technological use for satellites. The third collinear point, L 3, is found on the opposite side of the Sun from the planet and is not shown in the figure. The collinear points are not stable: spacecraft need to actively control their position to stay near them. Earth Trojan asteroid 2010 TK 7 is the first body known to be able to temporarily reside 15 at L 3. Lagrange’s triangular solution, in the idealized or “restricted” three-body problem, with circular orbits, has the smaller bodies at positions forming an equilateral triangle with the planet and Sun; in other words, as viewed from the Sun, these positions are 60° ahead of (leading or L 4 point) or behind (trailing or L 5 point) the planet in its orbit. Conventions about numbering of Lagrange points now seem well established, but some earlier work notably reverses the numbering of triangular points. The planet and Trojans orbit the center of mass (very close to the Sun) counterclockwise when viewed from the north as in the top panel. A new orbital class was recently found which surprisingly allows stable gravitational interaction with Jupiter for a small body orbiting clockwise 16 near its orbit. Although Figure 1 shows a snapshot of positions in a fixed (inertial) coordinate system on a given date, it is also common to represent Trojan positions, and do the associated solutions involving pseudo-forces, in a noninertial corotating system. 17 The triangular points allow stable motion of a small body under the influence of the Sun and planet if their mass ratio is less than approximately 0.04. Lagrange considered only the ideal case of motion exactly at the designated points, although he did suggest that small deviations from the ideal case could be solved for by approximate methods. 18 Lagrange thus did not investigate stability, perhaps due to considering the triangular solutions as being only idealizations. The stability of the Lagrange points means that Trojan asteroids may move near them in librational motion 19 in looping paths as seen in the corotating system. The period of such libration varies with its amplitude but is roughly 125 years. Figure 1 thus very roughly shows positions about one libration period after the time of initial Trojan discoveries and reproduces the orbital geometry then. The year 2031 is also close to that at which the Lucy mission has an Earth encounter after having encountered four L 4 asteroids, to switch to exploring the L 5 point with an encounter with 617 Patroclus (and its now-known moon) in 2033. 20 It is also clear from Figure 1 that the leading L 4 point has more members (7508 known as of January 2022) than the L 5 point (4044) in a ratio of nearly 2:1. With so many Trojans now known this imbalance appears to be a dynamical rather than observational phenomenon. 21Comets and their dynamics were very well known in 1772, that of 1680 having been investigated in detail by Newton in Book III of the Principia. 22 Their elongated orbits would not have led one to expect them to be found at Lagrange points. Asteroids were discovered only in 1801, 29 years after Lagrange’s publication, although well before his death in 1813. The author has found no evidence that he at that time drew any connection to his earlier result. Thus, in 1772 there seemed to be no candidate objects to be located at Lagrange points. Lagrange himself stated that his special solutions were purely of theoretical interest (“Cette recherche n’est à la vérité que de pure curiosité”) and would not exist in the real universe (“ces cas n’aient pas lieu dans le Système du monde”). 23 In the Essai, Lagrange generalized from the ideal solutions to the case then known to take place, that of the Sun, Earth, Moon system, with one of the bodies very far away. This allowed addressing the general topic of the prize, the lunar theory. His assumption about what really existed in the “Système du monde” was not to be disproved until 1906, when the first Trojan asteroid was discovered and recognized, associated with the planet Jupiter. Systematic astronomy The observational path toward the discovery of Trojan asteroids may be considered to originate with the discovery of the planet Uranus on March 13, 1781. Although William Herschel was initially employed as a musician, he made systematic efforts in astronomical instrument design and observing 24 that made this discovery hardly accidental. The 16 cm aperture, 2.1 m long reflecting telescope he used was of such good quality that when he came across the planet while doing a star survey, he could immediately see its disk. It had been observed several times before, 25 as early as 1690, and recorded as a star. Herschel was not expecting to find the first planet since antiquity, and initially thought he had found a comet. Others had, however, worked on the systematization of the positions of planets in the Solar System, and about 1772 the Titius-Bode “law” had been published. 26 Uranus (eventually so named at Johann Bode’s suggestion) fit relatively well in the scheme, which also predicted that a planet must exist between Mars and Jupiter. Again, systematic searching was applied, this time to the zodiac where it was expected a planet must be. A novel international search initiative was organized by Baron Franz Xaver von Zach of the small German state of Gotha, effectively in the year 1800, creating an atmosphere in which another new planet was an anticipated result. 27While doing a survey for other reasons, and initially unaware of the international search, Giuseppe Piazzi, assisted by Niccolo Cacciatore, discovered the first minor planet on January 1, 1801, in Palermo, Italy 28 using a 7.5 cm aperture refracting telescope mounted on a precision meridian circle. 29 It was subsequently numbered and named 1 Ceres, and later designated as an asteroid. It is now considered to be a dwarf planet but retains “1” as its minor planet number. It has the planet-like characteristic of having become spherical due to self-gravity, but by being in the asteroid belt and insufficiently massive it is not deemed to have cleared out its orbital zone. 30 Ceres was the final destination of the Dawn spacecraft, which also initially orbited Vesta, and is the largest (946 km diameter) although not brightest of asteroid belt bodies. 31 The nature of Ceres was subject to debate after its discovery, and it was initially referred to as a “planet.” The term “Planet” was still sometimes in use for asteroids in Germany over a century later, which is the timeframe of this article. William Herschel, upon discovery of the second asteroid Pallas in 1802, first published the term “asteroid” for these objects, which were of star-like appearance even in his new 120 cm aperture, 12 m focal length telescope, large for the era. 32 As the nineteenth century advanced, it was found that large numbers of such asteroids existed, mainly in a zone between the orbits of Mars and Jupiter. The above endeavors in systematic astronomy were done with instruments quite different from those available a century or more later. Much of the technological development relevant to nineteenth century astronomy took place in Germany. 33 Early in that century, Joseph von Fraunhofer’s quality lenses allowed smaller reflectors like Herschel’s, with their speculum mirrors, to be replaced with refractors. About mid-century, the collaboration of Robert Bunsen and Gustav Kirchhoff, in Heidelberg, allowed fundamental advances in spectroscopy that are still commemorated at their workplace on its main street. Late in the century, silvered glass mirrors allowed yet larger telescopes to be built, with advantages that glass held its optical figure better than speculum metal, and silver’s much better reflectivity allowed detection of fainter objects. Advances in photography allowed observers to use dry plates of high resolution and sensitivity. Less emphasis has been given to the concurrent advance of mechanical and electrical technology in which Germany also led, but Figure 3 (below) shows a mechanically excellent driven equatorial mount which is a pinnacle of 19th-century engineering. The long refractor allowed the observer to make minor adjustments to the drive rate, for exposures that often lasted several hours. Although the German Empire or Second Reich 34 had external conflicts, and was internally politically dynamic, between the Franco-Prussian War from which it arose in 1871, and the start of World War I in 1914, it was a stable, prosperous, and even liberal state favoring the development of science. Such conditions encouraged research in astronomy, including new techniques in sky surveying, in which Max Wolf was a pioneer. Much as the discovery first of Uranus, and later of Ceres, that of Trojan asteroids arose from systematic astronomy. Max Wolf as the premier astronomer of the German Empire A casual survey of introductory astronomy textbooks shows that most mention Trojan asteroids, and several mention them in connection with Lagrange. One mentions the existence of only 15 Trojans despite being published in 1998 35 when over 200 were known. Only one book in this incomplete sample mentions Wolf in this context, 36 and further mentions his major contribution to asteroid surveys, although claiming that one “could simply aim a camera-equipped telescope at the stars and take long exposures,” which sounds far easier than it was in practice. We can conclude that Wolf is not a “famous” astronomer in English language material presented to university students. Predictably, this will change as the Lucy mission draws more attention to the Trojan asteroids in the next decade, with for example an outreach web page prominently mentioning Wolf. 37 In general, English-language material published about Wolf is sparse after some obituaries published upon his death in 1932. We detail here aspects of his life relevant to the Trojan asteroid work, first noting sources that may provide other details. Raymond Dugan’s short 1933 combined biography and obituary 38 of Wolf begins by quoting (in German, author’s translation follows) the praise Wolf gave in his obituary 39 of E. E. Barnard: “He was a virtuoso in seeing and measuring, he had a talent for recognizing the new that others carelessly overlooked, and he had, as his best characteristics, iron diligence paired with indestructible enthusiasm for research.” Dugan, who had worked with Wolf many years previously, and corresponded with him throughout his life, found that these words applied to Wolf equally. A shorter obituary in English is that of Hector McPherson, 40 who noted his “charming personality” in addition to his scientific achievements. In addition to these brief sources, the presentation address of the Royal Astronomical Society Gold Medal from 1914 gives a slightly lengthier description of Wolf’s notable work up to that date. 41 Perhaps the longest biographical sketch in English accompanied the award of the Bruce Medal in 1930, near the end of Wolf’s life. 42 It emphasizes the breadth of his work, and a systematic approach in fields including nebulae and proper motions, also evident in asteroid search programs. This summary includes mention of his spectroscopic work, including that on Wolf-Rayet stars, although not mentioning that these are named for the French astronomer Charles Wolf. (The other well-known Wolf term is the sunspot number named after Swiss astronomer J. R. Wolf). Max Wolf’s studies of stars with high proper motion, discovered with comparator techniques co-developed by Wolf and similar to those used for asteroids, resulted in a catalog of 1053 stars which now bear his name. Further details about Wolf’s Bruce medal award are given in a short summary which also includes material allowing insight into his admirably modest character. 43 A German-language article with many photographs marked the 150th anniversary (2013) of Wolf’s birth. 44 A book-length 1962 treatment in German 45 is part of the series “Grosse Naturforscher” 46 aimed at a semi-popular audience. The author, Hans Christian Freiesleben, 47 was a student of Wolf’s at Heidelberg’s Ruprecht-Karls Universität, and apparently did extensive archival work there, with not all sources directly indicated in the book. Where this book is a source of information here, his name will be referred to rather than supplying a further endnote. The present author had a brief visit to the university archives, and some of their material is available online. An English-language review of Freiesleben’s book provides some highlights 48 but has a few small errors. Heidelberg is a historic mid-sized city in the valley of the Neckar River in southwestern Germany, about 20 km from its confluence with the Rhine at Mannheim. Since World War II, the Land (state) in which Heidelberg is found has been called Baden-Württemberg, but historically it was Baden, a duchy within Germany in its various political forms. Wolf was born in 1863 into an upper middle-class Heidelberg family, which allowed him to indulge an early interest in astronomy to the extent of having a home observatory ( Figure 2) equipped with a 15 cm telescope and astrographs ( Figure 3). Working with this pair of fast astrographs guided using the ocular of the 15 cm telescope visible at lower left in the figure, Wolf made the first photographic discovery 49 of an asteroid, later given number 323, on December 22, 1891. A portion of the discovery plate is shown in Figure 4, with the magnitude estimated as 11.8 in visual follow-up by J. Palisa in Vienna on December 31. The announcement noted that two objects had been found on photographic plates taken on sequential nights, but that the second was thought to be 275 Sapienta, while the first was new. This discovery helped Wolf in later important activities leading to the establishment of what is now the Landessternwarte (State Observatory) Heidelberg-Königstuhl on the Königstuhl (King’s Chair) mountain near the city, 50 with its altitude (556 m) allowing a fuller sky view and better conditions than in the valley. In obtaining the new observing facility, Wolf’s engaging personality and clear ideas about his goals played a major role. Already in 1891, working in his home observatory with his portrait cameras mounted on the 15 cm “6-Zöller” guide telescope, he could see the advantages of attracting the patronage of wealthy, elderly American heiress Catherine Wolfe Bruce, 51 who supported libraries and astronomy. The aforementioned asteroid 323 provided such an opportunity. No attention was drawn to the fact that this was the first asteroid discovered using photography when it was announced the following July 52 to have had its name chosen by Wolf as “Brucia”. It was thus in 1892 that Wolf began corresponding with Miss Bruce, although on a trip to America in 1893 he was unable to visit her. Nevertheless, in 1894 she contributed $10,000 for the construction of the telescope which bears her name. This was installed in 1900. The donation played a role in Grand Duke (Großherzog) Friedrich I of Baden sponsoring the observatory, originally opened as the Großherzogliche Bergsternwarte (Grand Ducal Mountain Observatory) in 1896. The Astrometric Division opened at this time was headed by the older astronomer Wilhem Valentiner 53 (1835–1931), best known for editing and contributing to the “Handwörterbuch der Astronomie” (Dictionary of Astronomy). 54 He had a long history of making astrometric measurements and had been associated with Baden astronomy for many years, having been the final director of the Mannheim Observatory and moving in 1880 to Karslruhe about 80 km to its south. Although he did meridian circle observations there, a satisfactory observatory was never built, leading to his relocation to Heidelberg, where most of his work was done with meridian circles no longer at the site. In 1897, the Astrophysical Division opened with Wolf as its director. In contrast to Valentiner’s positional astronomy, where long focal length was an advantage and narrow field of view not a serious obstacle, Wolf saw the value of fast lenses and use of photography as enabled by them for studying nebulae 55 and searching for asteroids. 56 His methodology 57 was aimed at finding asteroids and determining their orbits, with the pragmatic explanation that “In the hunt for new planets, photography has exceeded all expectations. . . On the other hand, it has been shown that in the verification and tracking planets already photographed, . . .The participation of an observer is therefore more desirable than ever.” In practice that visual observer was often Johann Palisa 58 (1848–1925), a very successful observer of asteroids who still retains the distinction of having discovered the most visually. Born in what is now the Czech Republic, he became at age 24 the director of the Naval Observatory in Pula, on the Adriatic Sea in what is now Croatia. Both locations then being in the Austro-Hungarian Empire, he moved to Vienna after the founding of its observatory in 1880 with the then largest (68 cm aperture refractor) telescope in the world. After 1890, 59 he switched his observing to being primarily follow-up for photographic discoveries, becoming a frequent collaborator of the younger Wolf by exchange of postal correspondence. In matters of orbit reduction there was also frequent contact with the Astronomisches Rechen-Institut (Astronomical Calculation Institute) 60 which at that time was in Berlin (since 1945 in Heidelberg). 61 A large amount of orbit and ephemeris calculation was done in a timely manner by Adolph Berberich 62 (1861–1920) there. This was published in the widely distributed Astronomische Nachrichten and also sent out by telegraph for follow-up by worldwide asteroid observers. In the three centers Heidelberg, Vienna, and Berlin, joined by efficient postal and telegraph services, a powerful method of photographic search, visual follow-up and astrometry, and orbit/ephemeris determination was in operation in the epoch of the Trojan asteroid discovery. An important outcome of the Wolf-Palisa cooperation was the first photographic star atlas. The most popular basic atlas in the late nineteenth century was the “Bonner Durchmusterung” or “BD” published by Argelander in 1859 63 with completeness to the ninth magnitude. As much fainter minor planets were being discovered by numerous observers, the application of Wolf’s photographic prowess to making a star atlas which detailed much fainter stars was a timely idea. The charts were made between 1900 and 1916 and most of the original plates have been digitized. 64 The charts were printed on thick paper fit for use at the telescope and covered about 50 square degrees, similar to those of the BD. 65 The charts were sent by subscription, organized by Palisa. 66 Although the charts had varying exposure lengths and were not calibrated by magnitude, they went down to approximately magnitude 14, about 100 times fainter than the BD. Such charts could allow quickly identifying new objects, although in practice Wolf’s photographic approach consisted of looking for streaked images due to moving objects, as seen in Figure 4. Wolf’s far-seeing plans also included having a larger instrument, a Zeiss reflector of 72 cm aperture and focal length 2.82 m (f/3.9). It, like the Bruce telescope, was underwritten by a wealthy widow, Katherine Bohm-Waltz of Karlsruhe, who was a relative of the Wolf family. Despite its fast optics, the field of view was small, and this instrument was meant for follow-up but also equipped for spectroscopy. It was among the world’s largest when it came into operation in 1906. Having played a large role in the founding of the Bergsternwarte, Wolf became its overall director in 1909 upon the retirement of Valentiner. The Astrometric Division had obtained new instruments, and Valentiner had also published observations of asteroids. However, the divisions operated relatively separately, and external collaborations contributed more to Wolf’s work. After the Waltz telescope’s installation, Wolf’s observatory was rapidly overtaken by others, especially in the United States, in terms of instrumentation, but as he intended it nevertheless became one of the foremost in the world in asteroid discovery. With advanced photographic and search techniques enabled by its instruments, and reduction techniques that included an early stereoscopic comparator, 67 the observatory had discovered 316 asteroids by 1914. In 1913 it found 32 of the 88 new asteroids discovered. Wolf’s work spanned many areas of interest in the early 20th century, but a common theme was the rapid application of modern imaging techniques, at that time photography and plate scanning. 68 Some early methods of Wolf’s are described in English in considerable detail by Holden 69: by the early 20th century these techniques had been yet further advanced. Freiesleben points out that the close cooperation with Johann Palisa indeed allowed rapid visual follow-up of asteroids discovered photographically and with mechanical aid by Wolf’s group at Heidelberg, ensuring being able to properly determine orbits. Before moving on to Wolf’s discovery of Trojan asteroids, I present biographical material in English allowing some insight into his character. He was at one time a close friend of the prominent “Deutsche Physik” Aryan science proponent and Nazi supporter Philipp Lenard, 70 who having won the Nobel Prize in 1905 was a prominent member of the university. It is thus germane to ask about Wolf’s political leanings, especially since German astronomy, and Wolf personally, suffered greatly from World War I. A timid onsite inquiry into this brought the answer from a Heidelberg librarian that “1932 was a good time to die” implying that someone with fascistic tendencies would have revealed them with the end of the Weimar Republic and emergence of the Third Reich in 1933. Freiesleben states that some letters from Wolf’s youth had antisemitic statements but that such sentiments were common in the bourgeois classes of Germany in the late nineteenth century. An incident likely involving Lenard made Wolf’s broader adult views clear. In a series of lectures promoting “Pure Science” in the Berlin area in 1920, in the context of attacking relativity and Einstein in an antisemitic environment, Wolf was listed as a future speaker. 71 Wolf wrote an apologetic letter 72 to Einstein mentioning a visit from the organizer, Paul Weyland, 73 in which Wolf’s admitted reservations about the general theory of relativity seemed to have been transmuted into his name appearing on the speaker list. The letter began “Zu meinem Schrecken” (“To my horror”) and clarified that despite his scientific reservations, his new tests on plate measurement seemed to indicate that the eclipse measurements likely were correct, a point followed up in a publication. 74 He also pointed out that he had communicated to Weyland that his name should be removed from the list of speakers, in an overall very apologetic and respectful letter. Wolf was internationally known and respected by the turn of the twentieth century. He had played a major role in development of the Heidelberg Observatory with its very purposely chosen and effective instruments, and in developing observational techniques which for general use included astrophotography with large fast instruments, and perfected methods in asteroid searching in a highly fruitful manner. He had been successful in attracting sponsorship yet avoided the dangerous political controversies developing in Germany. The German Empire, also known as the Second Reich, was proclaimed at Versailles, then under German occupation, on January 18, 1871. 75 Wolf’s early astronomical activities took place in the Dukedom of Baden which was part of this confederation of German states, and his accomplishments peaked in pre-World War I days. It can be fairly claimed that he was the premier astronomer of the German Empire at that time, at least among those doing observational and instrument development work. Later years proved trying, however. Already before the war, Wolf seemed to suffer from self-doubt. A letter to Charlier written in January 1913 in an initial attempt to refuse an invitation to speak in Stockholm gives much insight into this aspect of his character. 76 It claims that such a visit would be an embarrassment and that in any case Wolf could no longer speak Swedish, so could not lecture in the language. Listing his failings, especially in mathematical areas, he concludes: “You have no idea at all, how stupid I have become.” His summary of his life to that point was that “it is nothing for one who has a talent for measuring, photographing, and building instruments to become an astronomer. Without mathematical gifts (however) the scientific life will be a constant self-torture and make him unhappy. I did not know that earlier, and my passion for the stars was too great. However, it was a mistake, for which I must atone.” 77 Freiesleben (p. 139) states that the war was unexpected for Max Wolf, as for many intellectuals. Shortly before its beginning, Wolf had a director’s house built at his own expense, and usually lived on the mountain. Shortages of coal in wartime meant that wood from local forests was used for heating. Food itself was inadequate, and as a smoker, Wolf often lacked tobacco. Wolf continued to work, often without assistants, while worrying about those who had been sent to the front. Despite these hardships, Wolf discovered Alinda, the second known (after Eros, discovered in 1898) near-Earth asteroid, in 1918. 78 Freiesleben (p. 94) detects extreme mood changes in his notes at this time, ranging from “the greatest embarrassment of my life. . .I am judged” in seemingly mistakenly finding a moon orbiting Alinda, to “a consolation in misfortune. Thank heaven” the next day upon discovery of a nova. The difficult war years ended with the collapse of the Empire through abdication of Kaiser Wilhelm II and the founding of what was often then called the German Republic on November 9, 1918. This is usually now referred to as the “Weimar Republic,” with the signing of the World War I armistice on November 11, 1918 only one of many events leading to its political stabilization in following months. However, numerous factors led to extreme economic decline. This led to further hardships for research and for astronomy, with, for example, photographic plates becoming hard to obtain and of lower quality than before the war. Despite Wolf’s international reputation and many friends abroad, Germany was excluded from many international activities, and specifically not allowed to be a member of the International Astronomical Union 79 at its founding in 1919. Wolf worked intensively for inclusion, although some internal resistance came from Germany’s Astronomische Gesellschaft, of which he was president in 1930–1932. Wolf’s colleague in Trojan discovery August Kopff (1882–1960) presented to the IAU in 1932, during Wolf’s terminal illness, asking for German membership. However, it appears that financial issues did not allow this, and (West) Germany was admitted only in 1951 (East Germany in 1962: since reunification in 1990 there is only one Germany in the IAU). Passing away on October 3, 1932, Wolf lived the declining years of his life in a troubled republic, at least missing the formation of the Third Reich the following year. His accomplishments peaked in the pre-war years with the establishment of a world-class observatory and numerous astronomical discoveries. Already unsettled in personal feelings at that time, he looked back in 1931 (Freiesleben, p. 154) to a time when he “stood in the first place in astrophotography. . .meanwhile we no longer have a big part in putting up new instruments, while the Americans have built up their equipment to undreamed of levels. Because of that I can no longer compete.” In another letter he wrote that “the investment for the Mount Wilson Observatory was already 100 times bigger than for ours, even in the pre-war years. So that’s it.” A lasting achievement from his brief occupation of a top position among the world’s astronomers, and one arising in a natural way from his systematic developments in astronomical equipment and techniques, was the discovery of the asteroid class we now know as “Trojans.” Discovery of Trojan asteroids In the course of routine survey observations on February 22, 1906, Wolf and Kopff discovered four asteroids 80 using the double Bruce astrograph ( Figure 5). Wolf himself discovered what was denoted in the system of the time 1906 TG, drawing attention to its small movement in right ascension ( Figure 6). This small motion arises from Kepler’s third law for an object near the distance of Jupiter as compared to the closer main belt asteroids commonly discovered. At the time of discovery, 1906 TG was nearly in opposition: the anti-sunward region of the sky is optimal for asteroid searches since objects there show near-full phase and are about as near as possible to Earth, making them brighter. Wolf’s method relied on looking for streaks on photographic plates, and at this point the apparent motion of asteroids is rapid although retrograde, making a longer streak than at other positions along the orbit. This object was near, but not exactly at, the Jupiter L 4 Lagrange point, preceding Jupiter by about 70° in their nearly common orbit. This was not apparently realized at the time of discovery, when most asteroids being found were main belt objects. In May of 1906, Berberich used the original observation plus optical observations from Vienna on March 5 and April 13 to determine an orbit, 81 making the great distance of the object “sure,” and noting that since it never had nor would come near Jupiter, it had been in that orbit for a long time. It is unclear to what degree the Heidelberg observers were initially aware of the three-body solution of Lagrange. Certainly, they were aware of important methods in perturbation theory of asteroids which are an important part of Lagrange’s overall works on celestial mechanics. However, one person was very well placed to interpret the new discoveries: the Scandinavian astronomer Carl Ludwig Charlier 82 (1862–1934). Having worked on observations early in his career, Charlier became director of the Lund Observatory in 1897. He later did extensive mathematical work in two main areas, celestial mechanics and statistics, the latter not only as applied in astronomy but more generally. He worked on stellar statistics at a time when this field developed in Sweden, contributing to studies of the structure and dynamics of our Galaxy. Charlier had recently published on the topic of stability of the Lagrange points in the three-body problem, finding that the triangular points should allow stable motion 83 and had just written a book, 84 Die Mechanik des Himmels, on celestial mechanics, the second volume 85 of which awaited publication in 1906, but introduced the currently used designations of the triangular Lagrange points. Already in a remarkable short article in May 1906, Charlier (1906) noted the great interest of 1906 TG, 86 in that its slow motion had been noted by the discoverers, and that its mean motion was very close to that of Jupiter. He pointed out that it was close to, but not exactly at, the triangular point, but that eccentricity and inclination of orbits would lead one to expect slight displacements from those points. He further gave a description of the epicyclic and librational motions that could be expected (the latter having period 148 years). Finally, he pointed out that since 1906 TG could belong to a new class of bodies, it would be a good idea to extend the search to the other Lagrange point. Despite the journal of publication, Astronomische Nachrichten, being under the editorship of Max Wolf, and published in Heidelberg, it is unclear what degree of credence was given there to Charlier’s rapid and correct interpretation of the situation. Charlier sent a postcard from Lund, Sweden to Max Wolf on July 25, 1906, received the next day ( Figure 7), in which he pointed out first a previous observation 87 of an object in a position where 1906 TG could have plausibly been in 1895. Calculations for large L 4 asteroids suggest that the near-equatorial position of this object was well south of the Lagrange point, and it definitely was not 588 Achilles, as 1906 TG is now known. Having no doubt in his own mind that 1906 TG was the first known Lagrange point asteroid, Charlier further suggested that it be given the name “Triangula,” which would have emphasized the triangular aspect of the L 4 and implicitly the L 5 point. He notes that a larger number of observations would facilitate further calculations. Finally, he mentions hoping to see Wolf in Jena, although it is uncertain that they did meet. The name suggestion was not followed, nor has any subsequent asteroid been given this name. In turn, Charlier’s second volume of Die Mechanik des Himmels, although having its Preface signed on September 18, 1907, does not mention the three Trojan asteroids known by that date. The only real objects treated are in the outer main belt, in regard to use of the three-body problem in determining stability under the influence of Jupiter. He states (p. 89) that the Lagrange solutions mentioned above “found by Lagrange in one of his finest treatises, seem at first glance to be of only superficial interest,” supporting that with the same direct quote from Lagrange given above. This shows his great familiarity with Lagrange’s work, although in his own book it leads into a comparison of that approach with his own formal solutions of the three-body problem. Thus, if Wolf was preoccupied with observational work and little aware of theory, Charlier laid emphasis on theory while keeping abreast of observations. Wolf’s 1913 letter to Charlier compares their respective talents, with a self-critical view. It is possible that Charlier did not wish to include the Trojan class in a book due to inadequate observations in the short time since their discovery. It can nevertheless be fairly stated that he was the discoverer of the properties of Trojan asteoroids, and based on his 1906 articles and postcard, knew that 1906 TG was one. Further discoveries and naming of a class As the other Lagrange point eventually came into view, searches were conducted there in the autumn of 1906, whether as a matter of course or due to Charlier’s suggestion. The second Trojan was found by Kopff among seven new discoveries 88 on October 17, and designated initially 1906 VY, without any comments upon publication. It was near opposition and about 40° from Jupiter near the L 5 trailing Lagrange point. On February 10, 1907, Kopff discovered 1907 XM, once again near opposition, giving a small daily motion but with no comments. 89 This attracted the attention of celestial mechanics specialist Elis Strömgren 90 (1870–1947), then working for the Astronomosiche Nachrichten in Kiel. He pointed out 91 on May 17, 1907, that this latest discovery, like 1906 TG, was near a triangular libration point, although 19° from it and of large inclination. The L 5 discovery of 1906 VY was not mentioned, so that only two potential “Jupitergruppe” asteroids were posited by him as either possibly being held by Jupiter near its orbit, or as members of an outward extension of the asteroid belt. On June 11, 1907, Palisa sent a postcard ( Figure 8) suggesting assigning names from Homer’s Iliad to the three similar asteroids. By using the term “Konsorten,” Palisa implied a relationship between the asteroids, although it is hard to tell if that was only in them being far from the Sun or related through orbital behavior in the Lagrange sense. The Heidelberg discoverers Wolf and Kopff promptly (June 21) indicated in the Astronomische Nachrichten that they were following this suggestion by Palisa in giving the names Achilles, Patroclus, and Hector: they did not mention the likely connection to Jupiter, but denoted them as “sonnenfernen Planetoiden” that is, far from the Sun. 92By the time of the naming, the orbit of 1906 TG had been well enough determined to assign its current minor planet number, with the name 588 Achilles. 1906 VY was named after Achilles’ dear friend or cousin Patroclus and later assigned the number 617, and 1907 XM was named for their mutual enemy, the Trojan Hector. Later, this latter asteroid was numbered as 624, and its name is now spelled Hektor. Subsequently, asteroids near the Jupiter L 4 point have been named after Greek heroes, and those near L 5 after Trojans. The early naming did not follow this later rule, so Trojan Hektor is near L 4, while Greek Patroclus is near L 5. Generically, the Jupiter Lagrange triangular point asteroids are now called Trojans: further it is understood that unless that term is modified by the name of another planet, “Trojan” means an asteroid associated with Jupiter. 659 Nestor, discovered by Wolf in 1908 as 1908 CS, without commentary, 93 was named according to this pattern as Nestor of Pylos was a “Greek,” but not until 1910. 94 Despite being considered “interesting” as a possible member of the “Achilles-Gruppe” and having an ephemeris calculated almost upon discovery, 95 Nestor was lost and only located again in 1917. 96 Although this issue will not be dealt with in detail here, the usual perturbation methods break down for resonant asteroids. This issue was brought forward in an article about the resonant Hilda asteroids, 97 already known in the period, which establishes also that as early as 1903 not only were the Kirkwood gaps well recognized, but also the existence of groups with similar orbital constraints through resonance. Further, the practice was to name these features after the prototype asteroid, in this case 153 Hilda. This is also the case for the asteroid families 98 discovered in 1918 by K. Hirayama, which being of collisional origin have no necessary connection to dynamically grouped bodies. Palisa’s suggestion broke with tradition as it used male names, where female or feminized names, often from mythology, predominated among asteroid names. The notable famous exception was near-Earth asteroid 433 Eros, although it had been preceded by 342 Endymion. The related names suggested by Palisa implied membership in a group despite the resonant nature of the grouping apparently not being realized. The “Trojan/Greek” pattern continued with the discovery of 884 Priamus (King of Troy thus in L 5), Wolf’s last Trojan discovery, published without comment but clearly of interest due to numerous follow-up observations. 99 A new generation of asteroid observers came to Trojan studies with the discovery of 911 Agamemnon, 100 eventually named and properly placed in L 4 as King of the Acheans (Greeks), by Karl Reinmuth (1892–1979) in 1919. By this time, Wolf’s discovery machine, despite the difficulties brought on by the First World War, was very productive, so the lack of comment about this object may simply be through difficulty in keeping up. It was nearly eleven years before Reinmuth again found a Trojan asteroid, by which time the nomenclature had become established, with the announcement 101 being under the name “Ein neuer Trojaner entdeckt” (A new Trojan discovered). The remaining Trojan discoveries before Wolf’s death are listed in Table 1. The interest of Wolf in the new class of bodies was such that the first asteroid imaged 102 with the new 72 cm Waltz reflector was the by then numbered but not named (588) [1906 TG], on January 22, 1907. The same observation was reported again 103 with emphasis on the capabilities of the new telescope, which could extend the detection limit by three magnitudes as compared to the Bruce telescopes. No comment was made on the nature of the asteroid. The Waltz reflector was not principally intended for asteroid search, but its light-gathering power made it useful for follow-up. There are now over 6000 Trojan asteroids known with relatively well-established orbits, and over 12,000 in total. The current formal naming conventions 104 specify only “names from the Trojan War” for bright Trojans, while fainter ones are now named for Olympian or Paralympian athletes. 105 As no further bright Trojans may be expected to be discovered, presumably female characters from the Trojan War will not be able to be recognized with Trojan asteroid names, although several are among the “normal” asteroids, including some discovered before 1906. 106The Lagrange theory is now widely known, and certain aspects of it are used in space navigation. Resonant motion is recognized as an important factor in solar system dynamics and cosmogony. Wolf’s systematic efforts in pioneering ways to find asteroids led to unforeseen riches in celestial dynamics, although at what point he may have become aware of the special nature of Trojan libration remains unclear. Ironically, it has recently been found that Wolf was not in fact the first observer of a Trojan asteroid.


--- [323 Brucia – Little Bits of History] ---
Heavens! December 22, 1891: 323 Brucia is discovered. It was the first asteroid to be found by means of astrophotography. It is part of the Main belt (the asteroid belt between Mars and Jupiter. It is about 22.25 ± 1 miles across. It is also a Mars-crosser which means that the orbit of the asteroid crosses the orbit of Mars at some point. The body was discovered by Max Wolf and named in honor of Catherine Wolfe Bruce, a patron of the science of astronomy. She had donated $10,000 for the construction of the telescope used by Wolf to find the asteroid. Max Wolf was born in Heidelberg, Germany in 1863. His father was a medical doctor and encouraged an interest in the sciences. Wolf made his first astronomical discovery, comet 14P/Wolf, when he was just 21, four years before receiving his PhD from the University of Heidelberg. He went to study in Stockholm for a year and it was the only significant time he spent away from his home town. He returned and was made privat-docent in 1890. He was a popular lecturer and received offers from many other universities but declined them all. In 1902 Wolf was made Chair of Astronomy and Director of a newly built observatory at the University. He held these positions until his death, thirty years later. On this day, he discovered 323 Brucia, his first asteroid. He went on to discover 247 more. Wolf was an early adopter of astrophotography. This specialized form of taking pictures of objects in the night sky began with a picture of the Moon taken in 1840. It wasn’t until later in the century when technology caught up with the idea, that detailed stellar photographs could be made. With the ability to picture the night sky has come images not only of the Moon, Sun, and local planets and objects within our own solar system, but we also have pictures of objects invisible to the human eye. With long time exposure possible, we have seen dim stars, nebulae, and galaxies. Within our solar system is a mass of uncollected matter scattered between Mars and Jupiter called the Main belt. About half the mass of the entire asteroid belt is collected into the four largest bodies: Ceres, Vesta, Pallas, and Hygiea. Ceres is the only dwarf planet with a diameter of about 600 miles. The other three have a mean diameter of about 250 miles. The remaining material is scattered so thinly that our unmanned spacecraft have traversed the region without problem. Collisions between larger asteroids do take place and then they form an asteroid family where members have similar orbital characteristics. Today, there are hundreds of thousands of known asteroids and the total number is thought to be in the millions. Astronomy? Impossible to understand and madness to investigate. – Sophocles Mortal as I am, I know that I am born for a day, but when I follow the serried multitude of the stars in their circular course, my feet no longer touch the earth; I ascend to Zeus himself to feast me on ambrosia, the food of the gods. – Ptolemy The universe is then one, infinite, immobile. . . . It is not capable of comprehension and therefore is endless and limitless, and to that extent infintite and indeterminable, and consequently immobile. – Giordano Bruno The history of astronomy is a history of receding horizons. – Edwin P. Hubble Also on this day: March to the Sea – In 1864, General Sherman finished his march into Savannah, Georgia. First PM – In 1885, Ito Hirobumi became the first Prime Minister of Japan. Fly Ash – In 2008, the TVA’s Kingston Fossil Plant’s dike collapsed. Under Water – In 1937, The Lincoln Tunnel in NYC was opened.
