=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Brian Houston's Daughter & Son-in-Law Resign as Hillsong Pastors]
In an ongoing shakeup at embattled Hillsong Church, Peter and Laura Toganivalu, the daughter and son-in-law of Hillsong founders Brian and Bobbie Houston, have announced their resignations. During services Sunday in Sydney, Australia, Hillsong Global Senior Pastor Phil Dooley welcomed the Toganivalus on stage and announced the couple had resigned as global pastors of Hillsong Young and Free ...
URL: https://julieroys.com/brian-houstons-daughter-son-in-law-resign-as-hillsong-pastors/

[Brian and Bobbie Houston's Daughter and Son-In-Law Announce Hillsong ...]
Peter and Laura Toganivalu announced their resignations as Global Pastors of Hillsong Young & Free this past Sunday (May 7) during the worship service.
URL: https://churchleaders.com/news/450732-brian-and-bobbie-houstons-daughter-and-son-in-law-announce-hillsong-church-resignations.html

[Hillsong Church]
On 10 May 2023, Houston's daughter Laura Toggs and her husband Peter Toganivalu, founders and global pastors of youth ministry group Hillsong Young & Free, ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hillsong_Church

[Brian Houston's Daughter, Son-In-Law Resign From Hillsong Church ...]
The resignations of Peter and Laura Toganivalu, nicknamed "The Toggsys," were announced by Phil Dooley, the recently appointed global senior pastor of Hillsong Church, May 7 during a worship service, Church Leaders reported. Brian Houston was Hillsong's global senior pastor until he resigned in March 2022.
URL: https://theothercheek.com.au/brian-houstons-daughter-son-in-law-resign-from-hillsong-church-leadership/

[Hillsong Investigations Page]
The daughter of former Hillsong Church leader Brian Houston and her husband have resigned as global pastors of Hillsong Young & Free, the Australia-based ...
URL: https://ministrywatch.com/hillsong/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Brian Houston's Daughter & Son-in-Law Resign as Hillsong Pastors] ---
In an ongoing shakeup at embattled Hillsong Church, Peter and Laura Toganivalu, the daughter and son-in-law of Hillsong founders Brian and Bobbie Houston, have announced their resignations. During services Sunday in Sydney, Australia, Hillsong Global Senior Pastor Phil Dooley welcomed the Toganivalus on stage and announced the couple had resigned as global pastors of Hillsong Young and Free, the church’s youth ministry. Dooley said the couple have been “a blessing over so many years.” The Houstons’ daughter, Laura Toganivalu, shared brief remarks. Toganivalu said she and her husband are “moving into a new season that we never imagined.” She added: “All 36 years of my life have been spent in this house . . . The people of our church have inspired me every day of my life.” Known popularly as Laura Toggs, she has been a worship leader on multiple Hillsong Young and Free albums. Her Hillsong bio notes that “Laura is a visionary, much like her father Ps. Brian Houston.” She is also described as “fearless, fresh and fabulous.” During the Sunday announcement, her husband, Peter Toganivalu, noted their shared youth ministry leadership role for the past 14 years and called it a “wild ride.” Your tax-deductible gift supports our mission of reporting the truth and restoring the church. Donate $50 or more to The Roys Report this month, and you can elect to receive “Restory Your Life: How Jesus Reframes Your Past, Rewrites Your Present, and Redefines Your Future” by Mary DeMuth, click here. He also acknowledged his in-laws, who have made global headlines over the past year. “I want to thank Pastors Brian and Bobbie, as well, our founding pastors, who have laid such great foundations for our church to build into the future,” said Toganivalu. Dooley also acknowledged the elder Houstons while speaking on-stage to their daughter. “Obviously, your parents, Laura, have just been the reason why so many of us are here,” said Dooley. “We are so grateful for them, and we just want to also honor them in this moment.” Hillsong co-founders’ alleged offenses left unaddressed In February, Dooley and his wife, Lucinda, were named global senior pastors of Hillsong, which draws a reported 150,000 people weekly to services in approximately 100 locations. That transition came about a year after Brian Houston resigned, following an internal church investigation that found Houston had acted inappropriately toward two women. Later, it came out that just days earlier, Houston had been arrested in Newport Beach, California, on DUI charges. Weeks ago, on April 11, 2023, Houston pleaded guilty to the charges in a California court. In a recent Facebook post, Houston addressed the incident. “At the time it seemed like all hell had broken loose within Hillsong Church and I was under immense pressure and emotional strain,” he said. “Clearly that is not an excuse, and I take full responsibility for my actions.” Another recent legal matter involving Hillsong Church originated during the Houstons’ leadership tenure. In March, the Australian Charities and Not-for-profits Commission launched an investigation, after whistleblower documents revealed alleged mass money laundering, tax evasion, and fraud at Hillsong. Houston has claimed those charges are “either out of context, misleading, or false.” Hillsong leaders did not mention these alleged offenses as the Houstons’ daughter and son-in-law announced their departure. Peter Toganivalu, who is also a longtime Hillsong board member, offered a positive outlook. “Life is lived in seasons – but life is also lived in tension,” he said. “It’s the tension of letting go of so much that you love. But, also, for Laura and I, we’re so full of anticipation and vision for the future . . . (And) I think Hillsong Church will go into the future and will do all she’s graced to do.” Freelance journalist Josh Shepherd writes on faith, culture, and public policy for several media outlets. He and his family live in the Washington, D.C. area.


--- [Brian and Bobbie Houston's Daughter and Son-In-Law Announce Hillsong ...] ---
Peter and Laura Toganivalu (nicknamed “Toggs”) announced their resignations as Global Pastors of Hillsong Young & Free this past Sunday (May 7) during the worship service. Laura, who is Brian and Bobbie Houston’s daughter (which makes Peter the Houstons’ son-in-law), said goodbye to the church where she spent most of her life growing up and serving. View this post on Instagram Recently appointed global senior pastors of Hillsong Church, Phil and Lucinda Dooley welcomed the Toganivalu family on the stage as Phil made the announcement. “We just wanted to honor a couple who are moving on from roles in our church,” Phil Dooley, who once served as the Toganivalus youth pastor when they were younger, said. “They’ve been just a blessing over so many years.” Dooley explained that at the end of last year Laura shared with leadership that she felt it was time for her to come off staff. “We’re like, hey,” he said. “If that’s what you need to do—we’re with you—we want you to do well because we’re about the kingdom aren’t we? We’re not just about one church. We’re about the kingdom of God. We’re about seeing people step into whatever the next season looks like, flourishing, stepping forward in faith, and cheering them on.” RELATED: Brian Houston’s Daughter Unleashes on the Media in Instagram Video About a month ago, Peter approached Dooley and shared that he believed it was time for him and his family to step into a new season of life that didn’t involve them continuing their current roles at Hillsong Church. “We are with you guys, whatever the choice is,” Dooley told Peter. “If you’re gonna stay, hey, we love you and let’s go for it. If you feel there’s a season for you to step into that is outside of what we’re doing as Hillsong Church, we’re gonna cheer you on as well.” Laura’s father, Brian Houston, was Hillsong’s global senior pastor until he resigned in March 2022. Phil Dooley, who now fills that role, commended the Toganivalus for their many years of faithful service to the church. Dooley also thanked Brian and Bobbie, telling Laura, “Obviously your parents, Laura, have just been the reason why so many of us are here, and we are so grateful for them, and we just want to also honor them in this moment.” Peter expressed the love and respect the Toganivalus have for the Dooleys and how much Dooleys mean to them.


--- [Hillsong Church] ---
Hillsong Church, commonly known as Hillsong, is a charismatic Christian megachurch and a Christian association of churches based in Australia. The original church was established in Baulkham Hills, New South Wales, as Hills Christian Life Centre by Brian Houston and his wife, Bobbie Houston, in 1983. Hillsong was a member of the Australian Christian Churches – the Australian branch of the US-based Assemblies of God – until 2018, when it separated to form a new denomination. The church is known for its contemporary worship music, with groups such as Hillsong Worship, Hillsong United and Hillsong Young & Free with many musical credits and hits charting all over the world.
Hillsong and its music have been highly successful globally, with its presence described as a global corporate brand. However, a series of scandals and criticisms have negatively affected its image in recent years. In March 2022, Houston stepped down as global senior pastor after an internal investigation found that he had breached the church's moral code of conduct for pastors by engaging in inappropriate behaviour with women on two occasions in the 2010s. In February 2023, Phil and Lucinda Dooley, who had been acting in the position since January 2022, took over as global senior pastors.


--- [Brian Houston's Daughter, Son-In-Law Resign From Hillsong Church ...] ---
Note: During his trial, Brian Houston posted that he believed that Peter and Laura Toganivalu should succeed him and Bobbie Houston as leaders of Hillsong. The church leaders chose Phil and Lucinda Dooley instead. Anne Stych From Religion Unplugged The daughter of former Hillsong Church leader Brian Houston and her husband have resigned as global pastors of Hillsong Young & Free, the Australia-based church’s youth ministry. The resignations of Peter and Laura Toganivalu, nicknamed “The Toggsys,” were announced by Phil Dooley, the recently appointed global senior pastor of Hillsong Church, May 7 during a worship service, Church Leaders reported. Brian Houston was Hillsong’s global senior pastor until he resigned in March 2022. Phil and Lucinda Dooley were announced as the new global senior pastors of Hillsong Church in February 2023 after serving in the roles on an interim basis during Houston’s sabbatical and after his resignation. “We just wanted to honor a couple who are moving on from roles in our church,” Dooley said when announcing the Toganivalus’ resignation. “They’ve been just a blessing over so many years.” Dooley said the Toganivalus had separately told church leaders their intention to leave the Hillsong staff. He said he told Peter, “We are with you guys, whatever the choice is.” “If you feel there’s a season for you to step into that is outside of what we’re doing as Hillsong Church, we’re gonna cheer you on as well,” he said. Dooley also thanked Brian Houston and his wife Bobbie, who was a co-pastor at the church, saying, “Obviously your parents, Laura, have just been the reason why so many of us are here, and we are so grateful for them, and we just want to also honor them in this moment.” In January 2022, Brian Houston announced he would be taking a year-long sabbatical from pastoral leadership at Hillsong, saying he wanted to further focus on defending himself against criminal charges related to allegedly covering up sexual misconduct by his late father, Hillsong pastor Frank Houston. The Hillsong board said at the time that the sabbatical was also part of a disciplinary action against Brian Houston for acting inappropriately toward women and for abuse of alcohol and prescription anxiety medication. In April, he was sentenced to three years of probation after pleading guilty to driving under the influence of alcohol. Anne Stych is a freelance writer, copy editor, proofreader and content manager covering science, technology, retail, etc. She writes for American City Business Journals’ BizWomen. This story originally appeared at MinistryWatch. Image Laura and Peter Toganivalu. (Photo via Hillsong Church)


--- [Hillsong Investigations Page] ---
Hillsong Settlement Fails Due to NDA Proposed settlement with woman who claims she was groped by Hillsong employee fell apart after Hillsong required NDA. A former student of Hillsong College who sued Hillsong Church Australia for sexual contact by its employee has declined a settlement agreement because it included a non-disclosure agreement (NDA).
