=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[History of Cuba - Wikipedia]
Spain also restricted Cuba's access to the slave trade, instead issuing foreign merchants asientos to conduct it on Spain's behalf, and ordered regulations on trade with Cuba.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/History_of_Cuba

["ordered regulations on trade with Cuba" foreign merchant ...]
The Crossword Solver found 30 answers to "ordered regulations on trade with Cuba" foreign merchant right to transact slaves Spain behalf", 10 letters crossword clue.
URL: https://www.wordplays.com/crossword-solver/%22ordered-regulations-on-trade-with-Cuba%22-foreign-merchant-right-to-transact-slaves-Spain-behalf

[The Plattsburgh | 23 U.S. 133 (1825) - Supreme Court - Justia]
... slave trade, afterwards released her, taking out some few of her equipments. ... slaves to any foreign country, &c., under the penalty of forfeiture. Under ...
URL: https://supreme.justia.com/cases/federal/us/23/133/

[Trump’s new foreign aid plan eyes $50 million for Greenland polar...]
Oct 9, 2025 · The Trump administration is considering whether to spend up to $50 million in foreign aid to protect polar bears in Greenland, and $25 million for snow leopards in Nepal — proposals at odds with ...
URL: https://www.bostonglobe.com/2025/10/09/nation/trumps-new-foreign-aid-plan-eyes-50-million-greenlands-polar-bears/

[History Ch 4,5,6, 7 Flashcards | Quizlet]
-The asiento : an agreement whereby Spain subcontracted to a foreign power the right to provide slaves to Spanish America—was an important diplomatic prize. Britain's acquisition of the asiento from the Dutch in the Treaty of Utrecht of 1713 was a major step in its rise to commercial supremacy.
URL: https://quizlet.com/119450979/history-ch-456-7-flash-cards/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [History of Cuba - Wikipedia] ---
The island of Cuba was inhabited by various Native American cultures prior to the arrival of the explorer Christopher Columbus in 1492.  After his arrival, Spain conquered Cuba and appointed Spanish governors to rule in Havana. The administrators in Cuba were subject to the Viceroy of New Spain and the local authorities in Hispaniola. In 1762–63, Havana was briefly occupied by Britain, before being returned to Spain in exchange for Florida. A series of rebellions between 1868 and 1898, led by General Máximo Gómez, failed to end Spanish rule and claimed the lives of 49,000 Cuban guerrillas and 126,000 Spanish soldiers. However, the Spanish–American War resulted in a Spanish withdrawal from the island in 1898, and following three and a half years of subsequent US military rule, Cuba gained formal independence in 1902.
In the years following its independence, the Cuban republic saw significant economic development, but also political corruption and a succession of despotic leaders, culminating in the overthrow of the dictator Fulgencio Batista by the 26th of July Movement, led by Fidel Castro, during the 1953–1959 Cuban Revolution. The new government aligned with the Soviet Union and embraced communism. In the early 1960s, Castro's regime withstood invasion, faced nuclear Armageddon, and experienced a civil war that included Dominican support for regime opponents. Following the Warsaw Pact invasion of Czechoslovakia (1968), Castro publicly declared Cuba's support. His speech marked the start of Cuba's complete absorption into the Eastern Bloc. During the Cold War, Cuba also supported Soviet policy in Afghanistan, Poland, Angola, Ethiopia, Nicaragua, and El Salvador. The Cuban economy was mostly supported by Soviet subsidies.
With the dissolution of the USSR in 1991 Cuba was plunged into a severe economic crisis known as the Special Period that ended in 2000 when Venezuela began providing Cuba with subsidized oil. The country has been politically and economically isolated by the United States since the Revolution, but has gradually gained access to foreign commerce and travel as efforts to normalise diplomatic relations have progressed. Domestic economic reforms are also beginning to tackle existing economic problems which arose in the aftermath of the special period (i.e. the introduction of the dual currency system).


--- ["ordered regulations on trade with Cuba" foreign merchant ...] ---
Forgot Password Forget your password? Have it sent to the e-mail address on file. Just enter your user name above and click 'Send My Password'. Forgot User Name Forget your user name? Have it sent to the e-mail address on file. Just enter your email below and click 'Send My User Name'. If the email address on file is no longer valid you must register again. If you're having trouble signing in read the FAQ. |


--- [The Plattsburgh | 23 U.S. 133 (1825) - Supreme Court - Justia] ---
No content


--- [Trump’s new foreign aid plan eyes $50 million for Greenland polar...] ---
The Trump administration is considering whether to spend up to $50 million in foreign aid to protect polar bears in Greenland, and $25 million for snow leopards in Nepal — proposals at odds with a parallel initiative to slash humanitarian and wildlife programs deemed incompatible with President Trump’s “America First” agenda, according to documents reviewed and people familiar with the matter. As of mid-September, the State Department was actively assembling teams to devise the funding proposals, internal emails show. The move, which has not been previously reported or publicly announced, stunned diplomats and elected officials from the United States and other nations, as well as scientific researchers who work on conservation efforts for the animals involved, many of whom noted the administration’s dramatic cuts to other US foreign assistance. The Greenland initiative is particularly noteworthy, as Trump — citing the Arctic island’s strategic location and rich natural resources — has repeatedly expressed a desire to acquire the semiautonomous territory through purchase or annexation. Greenland remains part of the Danish realm, and its people have expressed little interest in Trump’s solicitations. One State Department employee familiar with the polar bear project said that, internally, it has raised questions because spending on so much else has been slashed. This person said that he and his colleagues estimated it would translate to about $100,000 per polar bear. FEATURED VIDEO “It’s something [the Office of Foreign Assistance] has been pushing for months,” the employee said, “While everything else is eliminated.” Another State Department staffer was more blunt, saying, “We are doing absolutely nothing right now to protect any nature or wildlife.” In a statement acknowledging the conversations that are underway, the State Department said that biodiversity funding was being considered only because it was mandated by Congress before Trump returned to the White House. “This is very hard to justify as in America’s national interest, but because the State Department is complying with applicable laws and unable to reprogram the FY2024 funding, we are exploring creative ways to abide by the law and still advance our country’s strategic goals,” the statement said, using an abbreviation for the previous fiscal year. Advertisement One aim, the statement continued, was to identify “opportunities to strengthen economic and diplomatic ties with key partners” and advance Trump’s foreign policy goals, “even while forced to meet this congressionally mandated earmark.” The Trump administration previously has flouted lawmakers’ intent on federal spending. In August, for instance, the Office of Management and Budget nixed almost $5 billion in foreign aid already signed into law, a move the Senate Appropriations Committee’s top Republican, Senator Susan Collins, Maine, called “a clear violation of the law.” Researchers who work on polar bear conservation in Greenland expressed bewilderment over the scale of the funding proposal under consideration, calling it many orders of magnitude greater than their current funding and saying the figure was so vast that it was unclear if it could all be spent. These people, like several others, spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss the Trump administration’s calculations. The Trump administration paused most foreign aid after entering office and later made sweeping cuts to programs that, among other things, provided tens of millions of dollars’ worth of medicine for people in war-torn Sudan and for food aid in crisis areas such as Gaza. The animal-protection proposals would be funded by the nearly $2 billion once administered by the US Agency for International Development (USAID), which the Trump administration dismantled earlier this year. Trump officials signaled to Congress last month that they planned to shift that lump sum to what, in many cases, are vaguely defined projects intended to advance the president’s “America First” agenda. Included among the other new uses for that money, as outlined in a September message from the administration to Congress, are initiatives aimed at countering “Marxist, anti-American regimes” in Latin America, and helping maintain peace between Azerbaijan and Armenia in Central Asia. The congressional notice mentions that some funds will be going to Greenland for “economic development and conservation work” and also mentions Nepal as a recipient of aid. The document does not describe how much would go to those countries or how it would be spent. Advertisement Congressional aides who have been briefed on the $2 billion reallocation told The Post that they had sought an explanation from the administration, given Trump’s vow to annex Greenland. When informed of the biodiversity proposals being devised, some said they were incredulous to learn the polar bear and snow leopard projects could receive so much money when others, intended to address human suffering, had been defunded. “After decimating USAID and State Department programs that Congress authorized and funded, the Trump administration doesn’t get kudos for continuing a sliver of international conservation aid,” Senator Jeanne Shaheen (New Hampshire), the Senate Foreign Relations Committee’s top Democrat said in a statement, adding that she expected “meaningful congressional consultation and oversight when the administration wants to spend American taxpayer dollars.” The governments of Denmark, Greenland, and Nepal did not respond to requests for comment. If carried out, the biodiversity funding proposals could dramatically alter such conservation efforts. The Greenland Institute of Natural Resources, a body that tracks the island’s wildlife, has an annual budget of less than $500,000 for polar bear research. Most of that money comes from the Danish government, according to annual reports. Polar bears and snow leopards are both listed as vulnerable species by the World Wildlife Fund due to various threats, including climate change and the wildlife trade. There are roughly 26,000 polar bears worldwide, with about 3,000 thought to be in Greenland. The planet has at least 4,000 snow leopards, with fewer than 400 living in Nepal.


--- [History Ch 4,5,6, 7 Flashcards | Quizlet] ---
No content
