=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Jackie Ormes - Wikipedia]
Nothing momentous ever happens here." She graduated from high school in Monongahela in 1930. [4][5] Ormes drew and wrote throughout high school. She was arts editor for the 1929-1930 Monongahela High School Yearbook where her earliest efforts as a cartoonist can be seen in the lively caricatures of her school's students and teachers. [6]
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jackie_Ormes

[Jackie Ormes - First African American Female Cartoonist]
She was arts editor of her 1929-30 high school yearbook, which included her caricatures of teachers and students. Ormes working on a high-fashion cartoon. While still in high school, she began writing letters to the editor of the Pittsburgh Courier, a weekly African American Sunday newspaper.
URL: https://wednesdayswomen.com/jackie-ormes-first-african-american-female-cartoonist/

[Profile: Jackie Ormes (1911-1985) - Black Art Story]
Ormes drew and wrote throughout high school. She was arts editor for the 1929-1930 Monongahela High School Yearbook where her earliest efforts as a cartoonist can be seen in the lively caricatures of her school's students and teachers.
URL: https://blackartstory.org/2020/09/01/profile-jackie-ormes-1911-1985/

[Jackie Ormes' Comic Career Set a Foundation for Black Women]
Mar 23, 2021 — She began writing and drawing during high school, eventually becoming the arts editor for the Monongahela High School yearbook in 1929.
URL: https://www.yahoo.com/entertainment/jackie-ormes-comic-career-set-202053532.html

[Jackie Ormes: First African-American Female Cartoonist]
During 1929 and 1930, she was the editor for the Monongahela High School Yearbook. She was known for the lively caricatures she created based on her school's teachers and students. It was during this time that she wrote a letter to the editor of a weekly African-American newspaper called the Pittsburgh Courier.
URL: https://discover.hubpages.com/education/Jackie-Ormes-First-African-American-Female-Cartoonist


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Jackie Ormes - Wikipedia] ---
Jackie Ormes (August 1, 1911 – December 26, 1985) was an American cartoonist. She is known as the first African-American woman cartoonist and creator of the Torchy Brown comic strip and the Patty-Jo 'n' Ginger panel.




--- [Jackie Ormes - First African American Female Cartoonist] ---
Anyone remember riffling through the Sunday papers to get to the comics section? The Sunday funnies, a.k.a. the funny papers, were a family tradition for kids of all ages. They were so popular that, during a 1945 newspaper delivery strike, New York City Mayor Fiorello LaGuardia took to the radio to read the comics so readers wouldn’t miss a week. But while the Sunday funnies entertained, they also presented current events, voiced opinions and kept readers up to date on current events. And no one understood their power better than Jackie Ormes, a crusading columnist, humorist, artist and activist who used her pen as an instrument of protest and change in mid-twentieth century America. Highly-talented young artist Born Zelda Mavin Jackson, she drew and wrote throughout her high school years in Monongahela, Pennsylvania. She was arts editor of her 1929-30 high school yearbook, which included her caricatures of teachers and students. While still in high school, she began writing letters to the editor of the Pittsburgh Courier, a weekly African American Sunday newspaper. When, to her surprise, the editor replied, she snagged her first real writing assignment — covering a Joe Lewis heavyweight boxing match with the paper’s sports editor as her chaperone. After graduating in 1930, she took a job at the Courier as a proofreader, editor and freelance writer, covering police beats, court cases and human interest pieces. But while she “enjoyed a great career running around town, looking into everything the law would allow and writing about it,” she really wanted to draw. Torchy Brown character Ormes debuted her first comic strip, Torchy Brown in Dixie to Harlem, in the Pittsburgh Courier in 1937. And while her work wasn’t syndicated, the Courier ran her strip in all 14 of their city editions, giving her coast-to-coast readership. Torchy Brown was a plucky, star-struck Mississippi teen who found fame and fortune performing at Harlem’s Cotton Club, her journey north mirroring the Great Migration of so many African Americans. With Torchy, Ormes made history by becoming the first African American woman to produce a nationally-published comic strip. It ran until 1940, before coming to an end when Ormes moved with her husband to be closer to his family in Ohio. But she was unhappy there, leading to the couple’s move to Chicago in 1942, where Ormes soon took her place in African American society, writing a column for the Chicago Defender, one of America’s foremost black papers. After the end of World War II, her single-panel cartoon, Candy — about a smart, wisecracking housemaid, debuted in the paper, but ran for just four months. By August of that year, Ormes was back at her old stomping grounds, the Pittsburgh Courier, where she launched Patty-Jo ‘n’ Ginger, a single-panel cartoon read by millions during its 11-year run. Its big sister-little sister theme featured Patty Jo, a precocious, politically aware child who voiced opinions on everything from sexism and racism to McCarthyism, and her big sister, Ginger, a gorgeous black woman and fashion plate Ormes often depicted in pinup-girl poses. Targeted by FBI Ormes eventually caught the eye of the FBI when she appeared at a bookstore where several Communists were believed to have spoken. She worked during the Joe McCarthy era, a time rife with suspicion and paranoia. Yet not one of the 287 pages the FBI compiled on Ormes even mentioned her pioneering comic strips. Deborah Whaley, author of Black Women in Sequence ,writes they “ran a file on Ormes between 1948 to 1958. They would track her steps, following her to bookstores and other places to gather information on her possible connections to the Communist Party, even interviewing her several times.” Her file eventually ran to 287 pages — 150 more than the Brooklyn Dodgers’ Jackie Robinson. Patty Jo, who publicly voiced what readers could only think, was so popular that, in 1947, Ormes contracted with the Terri Lee doll company to produce a doll based on her cartoon character. The Patty-Jo doll, in stores for Christmas that year, was the first American black doll with an extensive upscale wardrobe. She also represented a real child in contrast to black dolls of the time, which were mammy or Topsy dolls. Though they sold by the thousands to both black and white children, in 1949 Terri Lee opted not to renew Ormes’ contract and ended production. Today, original Patty-Jo dolls are highly sought after by collectors. Torchy in Heartbeats When, in 1950, the Courier launched an eight-page, full-color comics insert, a national syndicate urged Ormes to reinvent her Torchy Brown character for a new strip called Torchy in Heartbeats. All grown up since her debut in 1937, Torchy re-emerged as a beautiful woman with a flair for fashion who found herself in one adventure after another while seeking true love as she battled racism and society’s ills. Torchy in Heartbeats also gave Ormes the opportunity to show her talent for fashion design and her vision of a beautiful black female body with a small secondary strip she called Torchy Togs. It featured Torchy as what readers of a certain age remember as a paper doll, with a fabulous wardrobe. One 1952 strip shows Torchy in a pinup pose alongside a “wonderful waist-nipped, breeze-whipped gown in pale green percale.” Readers followed Torchy’s love life through 1954, when newspapers began paring their comics sections to give more space to America’s Civil Rights Movement, which had gained momentum with the Supreme Court’s decision on Brown v. Board of Education. Jackie Ormes retired in 1956, and focused her talents on creating murals, portraits and still lifes until advancing rheumatoid arthritis forced her to put down her pens and brushes. Her husband managed the historic DuSable Hotel in Chicago’s South Side. And as a member of Chicago’s black elite, Ormes rubbed elbows with leading political figures and entertainers who passed through the city and stayed at the hotel. She advocated for the South Side Community Art Center and served on the board of directors of the DuSable Museum of African American History. She also presided over the Urbanaides — a female auxiliary of the Chicago Urban League. Growing recognition Jackie Ormes died of a cerebral hemorrhage in Chicago one day after Christmas in 1985 at age 74, and was laid to rest next to her husband in Hope Cemetery in Salem, Ohio. But it’s only been recently that this self-taught artist’s groundbreaking work has gained the recognition it deserves. In 2014 she was posthumously inducted into the National Association of Black Journalists Hall of Fame, and into the Will Eisner Comic Industry Award Hall of Fame as a Judges’ Choice in 2018. A Google Doodle on September 1, 2020, honored her work. And, in 2016, a historical marker was dedicated to her next to the gazebo at Chess Park, one of Monongahela’s main community attractions. In 2008, Nancy Goldstein’s biography of the cartoonist, Jackie Ormes: The First African American Woman Cartoonist, was published by the University of Michigan Press. In an NPR interview, Goldstein stressed the importance of Ormes’ positive representation of black women and girls at a crucial time in history. Late in her life, Ormes told an interviewer, “I have never liked dreamy little women who can’t hold their own.” Not only did her characters and creations defy expectations for black women; they gave readers strong models for what the next powerful generation of young black women could become. Cartoon industry now But ironically, Ormes’ own industry still remains, with few exceptions, off limits to them. From 1989 to 2005 there was only one nationally syndicated black woman newspaper cartoonist — Barbara Brandon-Croft, who cites Ormes as her inspiration. She knows how far ahead of her time Ormes was; as the first black woman to create a syndicated daily strip for mainstream papers, Brandon-Croft’s own Where I’m Coming From strip didn’t appear until 1989. Today, the Jackie Mavin Ormes archive is housed at the DuSable Museum of African American History. There you’ll find original drawings, personal artwork, published cartoons, poems, and copies of “Social Whirl,” her column in the Chicago Defender. Also included, correspondence about Patty-Jo doll production and sales, a letter from Paul Robeson (himself a target of McCarthyism), and an original sketch of the Patty-Jo T-shirt which Ormes designed and sold by mail in the 1970s.


--- [Profile: Jackie Ormes (1911-1985) - Black Art Story] ---
Jackie Ormes was an American cartoonist. She is known as the first African-American woman cartoonist and creator of the Torchy Brown comic strip and the Patty-Jo ‘n’ Ginger panel. Biography Early life and career Jackie Ormes was born Zelda Mavin Jackson on August 1, 1911, in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, to parents William Winfield Jackson and Mary Brown Jackson. Her father William, the owner of a printing company and movie theater proprietor, was killed in an automobile accident in 1917. This resulted in the then six-year old Jackie and her older sister Dolores being placed in the care of their aunt and uncle for a brief period of time. Eventually, Jackie’s mother remarried and the family relocated to the nearby suburb of Monongahela. Ormes described the suburb in a 1985 interview for the Chicago Reader as “spread out and simple. Nothing momentous ever happens here”. She graduated from high school in Monongahela in 1930. Ormes drew and wrote throughout high school. She was arts editor for the 1929-1930 Monongahela High School Yearbook where her earliest efforts as a cartoonist can be seen in the lively caricatures of her school’s students and teachers. It was during this period that she wrote a letter to the editor of the Pittsburgh Courier, a weekly African-American newspaper that was published on Saturdays. The then-editor, Robert Vann, wrote back. This correspondence led to her first writing assignment- covering a boxing match. Her coverage of future matches led her becoming an avid fan of the sport. Ormes started in journalism as a proofreader for the Pittsburgh Courier. She also worked as an editor and as a freelance writer, writing on police beats, court cases and human interests topics. While she enjoyed “a great career running around town, looking into everything the law would allow, and writing about it”, what she really wanted to do was draw. Cartooning Ormes’s first comic strip, Torchy Brown in Dixie to Harlem, first appeared in the Pittsburgh Courier on May 1, 1937. Her work was not syndicated in the usual sense, but since the Courier had fourteen city editions, she was indeed read from coast to coast. The strip, starring Torchy Brown, was a humorous depiction of a Mississippi teen who found fame and fortune singing and dancing in the Cotton Club. Torchy’s journey from Mississippi to New York City mirrored the journey of many African-Americans who ventured northward during the Great Migration. It was through Torchy Brown that Ormes became the first African-American woman to produce a nationally appearing comic strip. The strip would run until April 30, 1938. The reason for the strip’s abrupt end is uncertain, but it is presumed to be due to an end in her contract. Ormes moved to Chicago in 1942, and soon began writing occasional articles and, briefly, a social column for The Chicago Defender, one of the nation’s leading black newspapers, a weekly at that time. For a few months at the end of the war, her single panel cartoon, Candy, about an attractive and wisecracking housemaid, appeared in the Defender; the panel ran from March 24 to July 21, 1945. By August 1945, Ormes’s work was back in the Courier, with the advent of Patty-Jo ‘n’ Ginger, a single-panel cartoon which ran for 11 years. It featured a big sister-little sister set-up, with the precocious, insightful and socially/politically-aware child as the only speaker and the beautiful adult woman as a sometime pin-up figure and fashion mannequin. The strip ran from September 1, 1945 to September 22, 1956. Starting August 19, 1950, the Courier began an eight-page color comics insert, where Ormes re-invented her Torchy character in a new comic strip, Torchy in Heartbeats. This Torchy was a beautiful, independent woman who finds adventure while seeking true love. Ormes expressed her talent for fashion design as well as her vision of a beautiful black female body in the accompanying paper doll topper, Torchy Togs. The strip is probably best known for its last installment on September 18, 1954, when Torchy and her doctor boyfriend confront racism and environmental pollution. Ormes used Torchy in Heartbeats as a sounding board for several big issues of the time. In a 1985 interview for Chicago Reader she claimed she was “anti-war-I was anti-everything-that’s-smelly”. Torchy presented an image of a black woman who, in contrast to the contemporary stereotypical media portrayals, was confident, intelligent, and brave. Patty-Jo dolls Ormes contracted with the Terri Lee doll company in 1947 to produce a play doll based on her little girl cartoon character. The Patty-Jo doll was on the shelves in time for Christmas and was the first American black doll to have an extensive upscale wardrobe. As in the cartoon, the doll represented a real child, in contrast to the majority of dolls that were mammy and Topsy-type dolls. The dolls were popular with both black and white children.In December 1949, Ormes’s contract with the Terri Lee company was not renewed, and production ended. Patty-Jo dolls are now highly sought collectors’ items. Content and influence What makes Ormes so extraordinary is that not only did she break past the expected roles as a woman and as an African American in the 20th century, but she did so with the rich content of her work. Her heroines, like the iconic Torchy Brown, Candy, and Patty-Jo ‘n’ Ginger, all ignored the heinous, albeit expected, stereotypical look and actions of a black woman in media (fat, slow, dumb, ungraceful etc). Ormes’s characters are strong and independent women who are socially and politically aware, who strive for their goals against all odds, defy social norms, and pick themselves up by the bootstraps and move on to the next adventure, instead of languishing in their downfalls. In an interview towards the end of her life Ormes said, “I have never liked dreamy little women who can’t hold their own.”Ormes’s creations not only defied expectations for black women, but gave her readership strong models for what the next powerful generation of young black women could become. Jackie Orme’s heroines faced challenges that did not face dragons or evil stepmothers, but instead faced relatable and contemporary issues; smothering aunts and the dangers of being taken advantage of in an unfamiliar environment, to name a few. While this artist generated a fanciful career path for Torchy Brown, the young performer’s tale is woven with seeds of reality. Torchy faced deception, unsympathetic peers, racism, danger, and heartbreak- but no matter the odds she came through. Ormes created women that her readership could believe in, root for, and aspire to be. Ormes tackled social and political issues everywhere from race to sex to environmental pollution. In each aspect of her life the cartoonist was involved in humanitarian causes, and her passion in very left-wing ideologies post-World War II even led to an investigation by the FBI. Retirement Jackie Ormes married accountant Earl Ormes in 1931. The couple initially moved to Salem, Ohio so Earl could be close to his family. But Ormes was not happy there, and they eventually moved to Chicago. The pair had one child, Jaqueline, who died of a brain tumor at the age of three. Ormes would remain married to Earl until his death in 1976. She retired from cartooning in 1956, although she continued to create art, including murals, still lifes and portraits until rheumatoid arthritis made this impossible. She contributed to her South Side Chicago community by volunteering to produce fundraiser fashion shows and entertainments. She was also on the founding board of directors for the DuSable Museum of African American History. Ormes was a passionate doll collector, with 150 antique and modern dolls in her collection, and she was active in Guys and Gals Funtastique Doll Club, a United Federation of Doll Clubs chapter in Chicago. She died of a cerebral hemorrhage in Chicago on December 26, 1985. Ormes was posthumously inducted into the National Association of Black Journalists Hall of Fame in 2014, and was inducted into the Will Eisner Comic Industry Eisner Award Hall of Fame as a Judges’ Choice in 2018. Influence in the present Writer/producer Susan Reib has strived for more than 20 years to bring Jackie Ormes’s historic contributions to the development of American comics and the role of female African Americans in them back to the attention of the public. Jackie Ormes created a character that could step into a world that was forbidden to her.


--- [Jackie Ormes' Comic Career Set a Foundation for Black Women] ---
No content


--- [Jackie Ormes: First African-American Female Cartoonist] ---
Jackie Ormes: First African-American Female Cartoonist During the mid-20th century in America, the newspaper industry offered very few opportunities for women. There were even fewer for women of color. Jackie Ormes is remembered as the first African-American woman cartoonist. Her style was unique. The lead characters created by Ormes were female. They were witty, strong, opinionated, elegant, urbane, intelligent, and often had very glamorous and cultured lives. Many people believe they represented the artist herself. Ormes's caricatures challenged the stereotypes associated with black people of her time and especially black women. Early Years On August 1, 1911, Zelda Mavin Jackson was born in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. Her father's name was William Winfield Jackson and her mother's name was Mary Brown Jackson. Her father was a movie theater proprietor and owned a printing company. In 1917, he was killed in a car accident. She and her older sister were then sent to live with an aunt and uncle for a short time. Ormes and her sister went back with their mother when she remarried. The family then relocated to the nearby town of Monongahela. In 1930, Ormes graduated from Monongahela high school. All during her time in high school, she impressed teachers with her drawing and writing. During 1929 and 1930, she was the editor for the Monongahela High School Yearbook. She was known for the lively caricatures she created based on her school's teachers and students. It was during this time that she wrote a letter to the editor of a weekly African-American newspaper called the Pittsburgh Courier. It was a newspaper that was published on Saturdays. The editor of the newspaper wrote back to her. Newspaper Career The editor gave Ormes her first writing assignment. She was asked to cover a boxing match. Ormes did a good job and covering other boxing matches resulted in her becoming a dedicated boxing fan. She eventually got a job with the Pittsburgh Courier as a proofreader. She then worked as a freelance writer as well as editor for the paper. Ormes would write on human-interest topics, court cases, and police beats. She enjoyed running around the town and learning about things and then writing about them. Ormes confessed what she really wanted to do was draw. Cartooning Career Ormes got permission to do a comic strip for the newspaper. On May 1, 1937, her first comic strip called “Torchy Brown in Dixie to Harlem” appeared in the Pittsburgh Courier. Her work was put in all fourteen city editions of the paper. The comic strip featuring Torchy Brown was a humorous story about a Mississippi teenager who became famous for dancing and singing in the Cotton Club. Torchy then moves from Mississippi to New York. The adventures of Torchy became very popular. This comic strip made Ormes the first African-American woman to create a comic strip that was read by a national audience. Her contract was over in April 1932, and she stopped doing the “Torchy Brown” comic strip. Chicago In 1942, Ormes moved to Chicago. She started writing for The Chicago Defender. Ormes wrote a social column and occasionally articles. This was one of the leading black newspapers in the United States. It was published weekly. While here, she did a single panel cartoon called “Candy.” It was about a wisecracking and attractive housemaid. This comic ran from March 24 to July 21 during 1945. Return to Pittsburgh Courier During August 1945, Ormes returned to Pittsburgh and began to once again work for the Pittsburgh Courier. This is when she created a single-panel cartoon called “Patty-Jo 'n' Ginger” that ran for 11 years. It had a socially/politically-aware child who is the only speaker. The child had a big sister who was a beautiful adult woman with a pin-up figure. “Patty-Jo 'n' Ginger” ran from September 1945 to September 1956. Return of Torchy Character In 1950, the Pittsburgh Courier started to provide an eight-page color comics insert. This is when Ormes provided a new Torchy character who was then an independent and talented woman. She is always seeking true love and having adventures. Ormes used this comic to express her talent for fashion designs. It will always be remembered for its last installment on September 18, 1954. Torchy and her boyfriend, who is a physician, confront environmental pollution and racism. Ormes used her comic strip to address the big issues of the time. She was proud Torchy broke the stereotypical media portrayals of black women. Torchy Brown was brave, confident, and intelligent. Patty-Jo Dolls In 1947, Ormes contacted the Terri Lee doll company. She proposed they produce a doll based on Patty-Jo, the little girl characters in her cartoon. That year, the Patty-Jo doll was on store shelves in time for Christmas. It was the first African-American doll to come with an extensive wardrobe that was upscale. Unlike other African-American dolls, this one represented a real child and not a stereotype. That Christmas, the dolls were popular with white as well as black children. Ormes's contract was not renewed in 1949. The production of her dolls ended. Marriage In 1931, Jackie Ormes married Earl Ormes. He was an accountant. Initially, the couple moved to Salem, Ohio. This was so Earl could be close to his family. Ormes did not like living in Ohio. The couple eventually moved to Chicago. They had one child named Jacqueline. She died of a brain tumor when she was three years old. Ormes remained married to Earl until he died in 1976. Retirement In 1956, Ormes retired from cartooning. She continued to create art. Ormes did portraits, murals, and still life paintings. She stopped when her rheumatoid arthritis made doing these things too difficult. Ormes also spent time on the board of directors for the DuSable Museum of African-American History. Death On December 26, 1985, Jackie Ormes died in Chicago. The cause was a cerebral hemorrhage. Ormes was 74 years old at the time of her death. Awards In 2014, Ormes was posthumously inducted into the National Association of Black Journalists Hall of Fame. In 2018, she was inducted into the Will Eisner Comic Industry Award Hall of Fame. She was a Judges' Choice. Sources This content is accurate and true to the best of the author’s knowledge and is not meant to substitute for formal and individualized advice from a qualified professional. © 2020 Readmikenow Comments Readmikenow (author) on December 10, 2020: Peggy, thanks. I bet anyone who has one of those dolls will have something valuable. Peggy Woods from Houston, Texas on December 09, 2020: Thanks for showcasing this talented lady who accomplished much during her life. That is a cute doll that is probably very collectible today. It is sad to know that they lost their only child at such a young age. Readmikenow (author) on December 09, 2020: Dora, thanks. She accomplished a lot considering the time when she lived. Readmikenow (author) on December 09, 2020: Fran thanks, She was also very artistically gifted. Readmikenow (author) on December 09, 2020: MG thanks, I enjoyed learning about her. Readmikenow (author) on December 09, 2020: Louise, thanks. She was an impressive person. Dora Weithers from The Caribbean on December 09, 2020: Thanks for researching and presenting the auspicious life and work of Jackie Ormes. Your articles inspire appreciation for exemplary successful men and women and hope for us who learn from them. fran rooks from Toledo, Ohio on December 09, 2020: Fascinating about a woman I knew nothing about. She was clever and today would probably be famous and remembered. I love her ingenuity. MG Singh emge from Singapore on December 09, 2020: a wonderful article about a person I didn't know about. Fascinating reading. Louise Powles from Norfolk, England on December 09, 2020: That was very interesting to read! I've never heard of her before. She sounds like she was a very fascinating and clever lady!
