=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Winners | International Photography Awards]
IPA 2020 TOP PHOTOGRAPHERS OF THE YEAR Julia Fullerton-Batten, Looking out from Within, 2020 International Photographer of the Year View More →
URL: https://www.photoawards.com/winner/?compName=IPA+2020

[Awe-inspiring Winners of The International Photography Awards]
The 2020 International Photography Awards has received more than 13,000 submissions from some of the most important photographers from around the world, and the judges have faced the incredibly challenging task of selecting the winners in each of the 13 categories.
URL: https://www.photoawards.com/awe-inspiring-winners-of-the-international-photography-awards/

[Slideshow: Winners of the 2020 Int'l Photography Awards]
Winners of the 2020 Int'l Photography Awards This year's International Photography Awards (IPA) received over 13,000 submissions from 120 countries. Judges selected winners and finalists for 13 categories and they were announced on Tuesday, October 27th.
URL: https://www.dpreview.com/news/0759586804/slideshow-winners-of-the-2020-int-l-photography-awards

[2020 International Photography Awards winners - Capture Mag]
In order to support and honour the outstanding work of both professional and amateur photographers around the world during the COVID-19 crisis, International Photo Awards will match the cash prizes that are awarded to the Category Winners this year with an equal cash donation to the charity of the winning photographer's choice in their community.
URL: https://www.capturemag.com.au/news/2020-international-photography-awards-winners

[Incredible Winners of the 2020 International Photography Awards]
The prestigious International Photography Awards (IPA) has looked over 13,000 entries and determined the best of the best. The expert jury has put forth the winners and a look at the top selections in the professional competition show just how talented this year's field of photographers is. Now the winners of the 13 categories will go on to compete for the title of Photographer of the Year.
URL: https://mymodernmet.com/international-photography-awards-2020/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Winners | International Photography Awards] ---
International Photographer of the Year Looking out from Within, 2020 International Photographer of the Year View More → Discovery of the Year In Epicenter of Covid 19 Discovery of the Year View More → Advertising Photographer Of the Year A sustainable future of exquisite luxury mobility Advertising Photographer Of the Year, Professional Category Winners View More → Analog / Film Photographer Of the Year New Seas Analog / Film Photographer Of the Year, Professional Category Winners View More → Architecture Photographer Of the Year From the stage Architecture Photographer Of the Year, Professional Category Winners View More → Book Photographer Of the Year ANTARCTICA: The Waking Giant Book Photographer Of the Year, Professional Category Winners View More → Deeper Perspective Photographer Of the Year Exodus Deeper Perspective Photographer Of the Year, Professional Category Winners View More → Editorial / Press Photographer Of the Year Pro Democracy Demonstrations, Hong Kong: The Revolution of Our Time Editorial / Press Photographer Of the Year, Professional Category Winners View More → Event Photographer Of the Year Elements Event Photographer Of the Year, Professional Category Winners View More → Fine Art Photographer Of the Year Looking out from Within, 2020 Fine Art Photographer Of the Year, Professional Category Winners View More → Nature Photographer Of the Year Black Mountain Nature Photographer Of the Year, Professional Category Winners View More → People Photographer Of the Year Odilo Lawiny - Handmade soccer balls People Photographer Of the Year, Professional Category Winners View More → Special Photographer Of the Year The Silent Menace Special Photographer Of the Year, Professional Category Winners View More → Sports Photographer Of the Year THE SHAPE OF THE NFL Sports Photographer Of the Year, Professional Category Winners View More → Still in Motion / Video Photographer Of the Year The journey to the land of dreams Still in Motion / Video Photographer Of the Year, Professional Category Winners View More →


--- [Awe-inspiring Winners of The International Photography Awards] ---
The 2020 International Photography Awards has received more than 13,000 submissions from some of the most important photographers from around the world, and the judges have faced the incredibly challenging task of selecting the winners in each of the 13 categories. Looking out from Within, 2020, Julia Fullerton-Batten Showcasing some of the most outstanding photographic work from around the globe, the world-renowned International Photography Awards (IPA) has named the Category Winners and finalists in its 2020 Photography Competition for the Professional and Non-Professional/Student categories. The judges praised this year’s winners for their exceptional work across various genres and styles. Hossein Farmani, IPA’s founder and president, commented, “In these unprecedented times, this year’s entries reflect some of the biggest challenges facing our generation–not the least of which is dealing with a virus which, for the first time, is an event that has affected every person on earth in some way. We see photography at its best–whether covering the Covid pandemic, or the world’s uprising against injustice–the images captured are breathtaking. I can easily say these are the best images I have seen in the last decades.” Elements, Katja Ogrin IPA’s distinguished international jury of renowned photography experts judged over 13,000 entries from 120 countries around the world to finally select these outstanding category winners. In order to support and honour the outstanding work of both professional and amateur photographers around the world during the COVID-19 crisis, International Photo Awards will match the cash prizes that are awarded to the Category Winners this year with an equal cash donation to the charity of the winning photographer’s choice in their community. IPA 2020 PROFESSIONAL CATEGORY WINNERS Finalists for “INTERNATIONAL PHOTOGRAPHER OF THE YEAR” (The top award in the Professional Categories includes The Lucie Trophy and a $10,000 cash prize) Mike Dodd – A sustainable future of exquisite luxury mobility, Advertising Paulius Makauskas – New Seas, Analog / Film Jesús M.Chamizo – From the stage, Architecture Sebastian Copeland – ANTARCTICA: The Waking Giant, Book Nicolo Filippo Rosso – Exodus, Deeper Perspective Kiran Ridley – Pro Democracy Demonstrations, Hong Kong: The Revolution of Our Time, Editorial / Press Katja Ogrin – Elements, Event Julia Fullerton-Batten – Looking out from Within, 2020, Fine Art Ari Rex – Black Mountain, Nature Brian Hodges – Odilo Lawiny – Handmade soccer balls, People Sawyer Russel – The Silent Menace, Special Howard Schatz – Bodies of the NFL, Sports Iwona Podlasinska – The journey to the land of dreams, Still in Motion / Video “Miles from the main roads in rural Uganda, soccer balls bounce unevenly. Playing fields are arid, lush, weedy, sandy—any flattish space will do. Some feet are bare, others shod in fraying sneakers, boots, or rubber sandals. Yet children kick and chase handmade, lopsided balls with skill and abandon, competing for pride and joy—for the sheer pleasure of playing. The balls are spun into being with whatever’s at hand: rag or sock, tire or bark, plastic bag or banana leaves. Made entirely of recuperated materials, they give another life to something that would otherwise just be thrown away”, said photographer Brian Hodges. IPA 2020 CATEGORY WINNERS Non-Professional/Student —Finalists for “DISCOVERY OF THE YEAR” (The top award in the Non-Professional Categories includes The Lucie Trophy and $5,000 cash prize) Rebeka Legovic – Temple of Colors, Advertising Elena Litvinova – Vova’s summer evening, Analog / Film Peter Li – Vanishing Lines, Architecture Teodelina Detry – Uninhabited places, Book F. Dilek Uyar – In Epicenter of Covid 19, Deeper Perspective Tim Evans – Say Their Names, Editorial / Press wei fu – Muslim Congregation in Dhaka, Event Chloe Meynier – Made in the Shade, Fine Art babak mehrafshar – magnificence of desert, Nature Hossein Fardinfard – Blackout, People Aaron Chuo – The Incoming Thunderstorm, Special Augusto Bartelle – The Maldives: Skydiver Photographer Perspective, Sports Simone Francescangeli – Psi-Covid-19, Still in Motion / Video Photographer F. Dilek Uyar spent 29 days in intensive care capturing the the epicenter of Covid-19. These Winners are also finalists for the IPA’s top 2 prizes—Photographer of the Year for the Professional categories, and Discovery of the Year for the Non-professional / Student categories. The final winners of these 2 titles will be announced in an online event later this year, and they will be awarded the Lucie Trophy at the 2021 Lucie Awards event. Along with the Category Winners, IPA also revealed the recipients of the 1st, 2nd, and 3rd prize in each of the competition’s sub-categories, and Honorable Mentions from across both professional and amateur entries. The full list of this year’s winners can be viewed on the IPA website. Details about the Lucie Awards and related events can be found at lucies.org.


--- [Slideshow: Winners of the 2020 Int'l Photography Awards] ---
Winners of the 2020 Int'l Photography Awards This year's International Photography Awards (IPA) received over 13,000 submissions from 120 countries. Judges selected winners and finalists for 13 categories and they were announced on Tuesday, October 27th. 'In these unprecedented times, this year's entries reflect some of the biggest challenges facing our generation--not the least of which is dealing with a virus which, for the first time, is an event that has affected every person on earth in some way. We see photography at its best--whether covering the COVID pandemic, or the world’s uprising against injustice--the images captured are breathtaking. I can easily say these are the best images I have seen in the last decades,' says Hossein Farmani, IPA’s founder and president. This slideshow contains images from Professional Category winners who received the Lucie Trophy and a $10,000 cash prize. The Non-Professional/Student Finalists for “DISCOVERY OF THE YEAR," who were awarded a Lucie Trophy and $5,000 cash prize, can be found here. The final winners of the Pro and Non-Pro titles will be announced in an online event later this year and will be recognized at the Lucie Trophy at the 2021 Lucie Awards event.


--- [2020 International Photography Awards winners - Capture Mag] ---
2020 International Photography Awards winners Over 13.000 submissions from 120 countries were received for the 2020 International Photography Awards (IPA), and judges have named the winners in the 13 categories in both Professional and Non-Professional/Student divisions. Hossein Farmani, IPA’s founder and president, commented, "In these unprecedented times, this year's entries reflect some of the biggest the challenges facing our generation – not the least of which is dealing with a virus which, for the first time, is an event that has affected every person on Earth in some way. We see photography at its best – whether covering the COVID pandemic, or the world’s uprising again injustice – the images captured are breathtaking. I can easily say these are the best images I have seen in the last decades." In order to support and honour the outstanding work of both professional and amateur photographers around the world during the COVID-19 crisis, International Photo Awards will match the cash prizes that are awarded to the Category Winners this year with an equal cash donation to the charity of the winning photographer’s choice in their community. IPA 2020 Professional Category Winners The following photographers are also finalists for the title of International Photographer of the Year, which receives The Lucie Trophy and a $10,000 cash prize. - Mike Dodd (Advertising) – A sustainable future of exquisite luxury mobility. - Paulius Makauskas (Analog/Film) – New Seas. - Jesús M.Chamizo (Architecture) – From the stage. - Sebastian Copeland (Book) – ANTARCTICA: The Waking Giant. - Nicolo Filippo Rosso (Deeper Perspective) – Exodus. - Kiran Ridley (Editorial/Press) – Pro Democracy Demonstrations, Hong Kong: The Revolution of Our Time. - Katja Ogrin (Event) – Elements. - Julia Fullerton-Batten (Fine Art) – Looking out from Within, 2020. - Ari Rex (Nature) – Black Mountain. - Brian Hodges (People) – Odilo Lawiny - Handmade soccer balls. - Toby Heikkila (Special) – The Silent Menace. - Howard Schatz (Sports) – Bodies of the NFL. - Iwona Podlasinska (Still in Motion/Video) – The journey to the land of dreams. IPA 2020 Non-Professional/Student Category Winners The following photographers are also finalists for the title of Discovery of the Year, which receives The Lucie Trophy and $5,000 cash prize. - Rebeka Legovic (Advertising) – Temple of Colors. - Elena Litvinova (Analog/Film) – Vova's summer evening. - Peter Li (Architecture) – Vanishing Lines. - Teodelina Detry (Book) – Uninhabited places. - F. Dilek Uyar (Deeper Perspective) – In Epicenter of Covid 19. - Tim Evans (Editorial/Press) – Say Their Names. - Wei Fu (Event) – Muslim Congregation in Dhaka. - Chloe Meynier (Fine Art) – Made in the Shade. - Babak Mehrafshar (Nature) – Magnificence of desert. - Hossein Fardinfard (People) – Blackout. - Aaron Chuo (Special) – The Incoming Thunderstorm. - Augusto Bartelle (Sports) – The Maldives: Skydiver Photographer Perspective. - Simone Francescangeli (Still in Motion/Video) – Psi-Covid-19. Winners of Photographer of the Year for the Professional categories and Discovery of the Year for the Non-professional/Student categories will be announced later this year. Along with the Category Winners, IPA also revealed the recipients of the 1st, 2nd, and 3rd prize in each of the competition’s sub-categories, and Honorable Mentions from across both professional and amateur entries. The full list of this year’s winners can be viewed on the IPA website. Get more stories like this delivered free to your inbox. Sign up here.


--- [Incredible Winners of the 2020 International Photography Awards] ---
“ANTARCTICA: The Waking Giant” by Sebastian Copeland (Germany). First Place – Book Photographer Of the Year, Professional Book, Nature. The prestigious International Photography Awards (IPA) has looked over 13,000 entries and determined the best of the best. The expert jury has put forth the winners and a look at the top selections in the professional competition show just how talented this year's field of photographers is. Now the winners of the 13 categories will go on to compete for the title of Photographer of the Year. From sleek advertising photography to haunting editorial images, IPA's categories allow the world's top photographers to put their best images up for judgment—and the results do not disappoint. In the Nature category, Australian photographer Ari Rex took home the win for his dynamic photo of a lightning storm over Canberra. As lightning bolts settle over the Black Mountain, the twinkling lights of the city glimmer in the foreground. Touching human moments were also rewarded, like Yo-Wei Chen's moving photo of a father tightly hugging his daughter during her wedding. Likewise, Sandro Miller's portraits of children who are part of an after school program to keep them off the dangerous streets of their Chicago neighborhood have a strong visual and emotional impact. Across the board, the winners put on a powerful display of artistic and technical skill. As we wait for word of the grand prize winner, who will be awarded at a special online ceremony, scroll down and look at some of the top entries from this year's competition. Check out some of the top professional photos from the 2020 International Photography Awards. “Blue Insularis 7” by Chin Leong Teo (Singapore). First Place – Professional Nature, Other. “拜別時刻” by Yo-Wei Chen (Taiwan). First Place – Professional Event, Wedding. “From the stage” by Jesús M.Chamizo (Spain). Architecture Photographer Of the Year, First Place – Professional Architecture, Interior “Black Mountain” by Ari Rex (Australia). Nature Photographer Of the Year, First Place – Professional Nature, Seasons. “Looking out from Within, 2020” by Julia Fullerton-Batten (United Kingdom). Fine Art Photographer Of the Year, First Place – Professional Fine Art, Other “Phoenix” by Marie Simonova (Russian Federation). First Place – Professional Advertising, Beauty. “City Soleil : a Melody of Hope” by Urim Hong (United States). First Place – Professional Editorial / Press, Other. “The Man Who Sold the World” by Adam Gearing (Australia). First Place – Professional Sports, Extreme sports. “Extreme Panoramic Landscapes” by Alessandro Cantarelli (Italy). First Place – Professional Nature, Landscape. “Odilo Lawiny – Handmade soccer balls” by Brian Hodges (Australia). People Photographer Of the Year, First Place – Professional People , Children. “Best friends” by Claudio Piccoli (Italy). First Place – Professional Nature, Animals / Pets. The contest received 13,000 entries from photographers in 120 countries. “time” by Titus Poplawski (Poland). First Place – Professional Analog / Film, Portrait. “Pro Democracy Demonstrations, Hong Kong: The Revolution of Our Time” by Kiran Ridley (France). Editorial / Press Photographer Of the Year, First Place – Professional Editorial / Press, General News. “Crossing The Line” by Elena Paraskeva (Cyprus). Second Place – Professional Advertising, Fashion. “Peony Study” by Saori Kurioka (United States). Second Place – Professional Nature, Flowers. “In the bubble” by Atsushi Adachi (Japan). First Place – Professional Nature, Underwater. “Coney Island – NYC's Summer Playground” by Aristide Economopoulos (United States). First Place – Professional People , Street Photography. “Exodus” by Nicolo Filippo Rosso (Colombia). Deeper Perspective Photographer Of the Year, First Place – Professional Deeper Perspective “The journey to the land of dreams” by Iwona Podlasinska (Poland). Still in Motion / Video Photographer Of the Year, First Place – Professional Still in Motion / Video, Fine Art. “Healing Landscape: A Damaged World in Transition” by joSon (United States). First Place – Professional Nature, Aerial / Drone. “Hybrid Solar Eclipse and Maasai Warrior” by Eugen Kamenew (Germany). First Place – Professional Nature, Astrophotography. “Extremest forms” by Ahmed Thabet (Egypt). First Place – Professional Architecture, Buildings. “Colossal Shadows: Super Tuskers of East Africa” by Andrew Doggett (United States). First Place – Professional Nature, Wildlife. “Mirror” by Szymon Brodziak (Poland). First Place – Professional Special, Smartphone Photography. “Off the Street Club” by Sandro Miller (United States). First Place – Professional Event, Social Cause. “Insect Portraits” by Pedro Luis Ajuriaguerra Saiz (Spain). First Place – Professional Nature, Macro. “A sustainable future of exquisite luxury mobility” by Mike Dodd (United Kingdom). Advertising Photographer Of the Year, First Place – Professional Advertising, Automotive. Celebrating creativity and promoting a positive culture by spotlighting the best sides of humanity—from the lighthearted and fun to the thought-provoking and enlightening.
