=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Cornelia Parker - Wikipedia]
[8] Cornelia Parker's first solo museum exhibition was at the Institute of Contemporary Art, Boston in 2000. [9] In 2019 she had a survey exhibition at MCA Sydney. [10] A major survey exhibition of her work opened at Tate Britain in May 2022. [11] She has one daughter, Lily, with her former husband Jeff McMillan, and lives and works in London. [12]
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cornelia_Parker

[Cornelia Parker - The Arts Club of Chicago]
The Cornelia Parker exhibition is organized by The Institute of Contemporary Art, Boston. Cornelia Parker is generously sponsored by The Elizabeth Firestone Graham Foundation and The British Council. An accompanying full color 80-page catalogue, the first book on Parker's work published in the United States, will be available for purchase.
URL: https://www.artsclubchicago.org/exhibit/cornelia-parker/

[Learn Institute of Contemporary Art, Boston facts for kids]
While plans for the new building were being made and construction was happening, the ICA stayed at its Boylston Street location. During these years, the ICA had the first solo museum show for Cornelia Parker in 2000.
URL: https://kids.kiddle.co/Institute_of_Contemporary_Art,_Boston

[The Blow Up: Hypnotist-Collector Cornelia Parker Comes to America | Arts | The Harvard Crimson]
Parker is already well-known in her native England: she was nominated for the Turner Prize in 1997 and had a solo show at the Serpentine Gallery in 1998. But the exhibit now showing exclusively at the ICA is Parker's first stateside museum survey. It is a mesmerizing show, covering a decade ...
URL: https://www.thecrimson.com/article/2000/2/11/the-blow-up-hypnotist-collector-cornelia-parker/

[Cornelia Parker - ICA Boston]
Cornelia Parker's installations, slide projections, sculptures and photograms consist of "loaded" found objects with a conceptual twist, broaching such topics as destruction and creation, science and religion, gravity and weightlessness. The exhibition at The Institute of Contemporary Art was the first American survey of Parker's art and brought together over sixty works made in the ...
URL: https://www.icaboston.org/exhibitions/cornelia-parker/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Cornelia Parker - Wikipedia] ---
Cornelia Ann Parker  (born 14 July 1956) is an English visual artist, best known for her sculpture and installation art.


--- [Cornelia Parker - The Arts Club of Chicago] ---
Cornelia Parker Past exhibition Cornelia Parker About the Exhibition The Arts Club of Chicago is pleased to announce the opening of a Cornelia Parker exhibition on Thursday, June 8. The exhibition, which will travel to The Arts Club from the Institute of Contemporary Art, Boston, will feature installations, photographs, works on paper, and sculpture. It will run through July 21. The press is invited to the members-only opening tea on Thursday, June 8, from 4:00 p.m.–6:00 p.m. Historically, Parker’s work can be viewed in the context of British sculptors of the previous generation, the so-called New British Sculptors: Tony Cragg, Bill Woodrow, Anish Kapoor, Richard Deacon, Michael Craig-Martin, and Richard Wentworth, among others. The group broke from the British traditions of the sublime and the monumental in sculpture (exemplified in particular by Henry Moore) by developing a conceptual sensibility that frequently incorporated a lighter, more humorous touch. The combined use of everyday found objects and conceptual titles allowed these artists to investigate a broad range of political and social references that had been largely ignored by post-war British artists. The visual and the verbal established a mutually informing but often intentionally contradictory relationship in their work. Like these sculptors, Parker’s early work was motivated by the desire to break apart from the monumental. Both objects (sculptures or monuments) and concepts (religion, the institution of marriage) came under her wry wrecking ball. The question of transformation—from vast to minute, ethereal to worldly, spectacular to mundane—has continued to be a theme in her work that has developed more recently into a complex process comparable to the religious notion of transubstantiation. For instance, the title of an early work, Thirty Pieces of Silver, 1988–89, prepares the viewer for a story of betrayal of almost biblical proportions. For this large installation, Parker amassed a vast collection of abandoned silver commemorative cups, musical instruments, bowls, candlesticks, etc., laid them on a road, and had them crushed by a steamroller. The smashed items were then hung from the ceiling at shin height in various groupings. “Silver is commemorative,” explains Parker, “the objects are landmarks in people’s lives. I wanted to change their meaning, their visibility, their worth, that is why I flattened them, consigning them all to the same fate.” Other large-scale suspended pieces include A Side of England, 1999 (not exhibited), a piece made of chalk from a cliff fall at Beachy Head at the south coast of England (a notorious suicide spot), and Hanging Fire (Suspected Arson), 1999–2000, a work made from the burst remains of a questionable fire. These later works constitute a substantial change in her approach to developing narrative in her work. While Thirty Pieces of Silver required Parker’s agency in the series of events that resulted in the transformation of materials, for A Side of England and Hanging Fire the primary agent in the act of transformation is something or someone other than Parker. In comparison to her large, suspended installations, Parker’s smaller works are like tightly constructed poems in which every word has been chosen for optimum effect. Her Embryo Firearms, 1995, and Embryo Money, 1996, which were made with the participation of Colt Firearms and the Royal Mint, respectively, investigate the power of transformation. For these works, Parker displays the objects in their earliest stages of production: the ten pence pieces are blank metal discs and the guns are simple recognizable shapes with just the beginning of a barrel and trigger. At what point, Parker asks, is the power of money and guns imprinted, instilled, or conveyed in these otherwise innocent lumps of metal? Parker’s fascination with comparing the miniature and gigantic appears in a series of measured works that involve drawn silver and gold. Measuring Niagara with a Teaspoon, 1997, is precisely that: a Georgian silver teaspoon melted down and drawn out to the height of the Falls. Her Wedding Ring Drawing (Circumference of a Living Room), 1996, a curling mass of twisting gold thread, is more ambiguous and represents an attempt to quantify or measure the boundaries or limits of domesticity using the metaphorical space of a living room. Parker’s photographic works have developed out of her interest in the potential of specific materials, as well as her notion of an “avoided object” (not the object that is presented, but that which is not shown). In Collected Death of Images, 1996, Parker presents the silver particles left over from the process of “fixing” an image with photographic chemicals, an act that suggest that the silvers of silver contain lost images now forever trapped. In a series of photographs, all titled Avoided Object, 1999, Parker took pictures of clouds, but the clouds themselves are not the “focus” of the work, but rather function as a not-so-innocent springboard for the metaphorical or conceptual content. Under each title Parker notes, “photograph of the sky above the Imperial War Museum [London] taken with the camera that belonged to Höess, commandant of Auschwitz.” The Cornelia Parker exhibition is organized by The Institute of Contemporary Art, Boston. Cornelia Parker is generously sponsored by The Elizabeth Firestone Graham Foundation and The British Council. An accompanying full color 80-page catalogue, the first book on Parker’s work published in the United States, will be available for purchase. The catalogue features an essay by Curator Jessica Morgan and an interview with Parker by Bruce Ferguson, Dean of the School of Visual Arts at Columbia University. About the Artist Cornelia Parker has received solo exhibitions at London’s Serpentine Gallery and participated in a residency at ArtPace in San Antonio, Texas. Her work has been included in numerous international exhibitions including the Saõ Paulo Biennial and solo and group exhibitions in Vienna, Berlin, and Paris. Her blown-up garden shed, Colder Darker Matter: An Exploded View, is currently on view in “Between Cinema and a Hard Place,” at the Tate Modern, London. A former Turner Prize nominee, Cornelia Parker’s work includes installations, slide projections, sculptures and photograms, all of which contain a surprising conceptual twist. Through a combination of careful presentation and research, Parker reveals a multitude of associations in her work that are at once humorous and thoughtful. Parker delves into such topics as destruction and creation, science and religion, yet her work remains unconstrained by heavy-handed theorizing. She melts, steamrolls, stretches, and explodes her materials to create works of both elegance and imagination matched only by their incisive wit.


--- [Learn Institute of Contemporary Art, Boston facts for kids] ---
Institute of Contemporary Art, Boston facts for kids | The ICA's current building in South Boston | | | Former name | Boston Museum of Modern Art | |---|---| | Established | 1936 | | Location | 25 Harbor Shore Drive, Boston, MA 02210 | | Type | Art museum | | Accreditation | American Alliance of Museums | | Architect | Diller Scofidio + Renfro | | Public transit access | Silver Line (SL1 or SL2) Courthouse Station | The Institute of Contemporary Art (ICA) is a cool art museum in Boston, Massachusetts. It's a place where you can see amazing modern art and special shows. The museum started in 1936 as the Boston Museum of Modern Art. Over the years, it changed its name a few times. It also moved its art galleries and offices more than 13 times! The ICA's current home was built in 2006. It's located in the South Boston Seaport District. The building was designed by famous architects Diller Scofidio + Renfro. Contents History of the ICA The Institute of Contemporary Art began as the Boston Museum of Modern Art in 1936. Its first offices were on State Street. The Fogg Museum and the Busch–Reisinger Museum at Harvard University helped by providing gallery space. The museum wanted to be a bit different from the Museum of Modern Art. Its first president was Nathaniel Saltonstall, a 26-year-old architect. The very first art show at the museum featured works by Paul Gauguin. In its first year, the museum held a fundraiser called the Modern Art Ball. Many famous artists attended, including Gala and Salvador Dalí. They even came dressed as sharks! Early Years and New Art Styles In 1937, the Boston Museum of Modern Art moved to its own gallery space on Newbury Street. They started charging 25 cents to get in. That year, the museum showed the first big exhibit of dada and surrealist art. A famous artwork called Object (Le Déjeuner en fourrure) by Méret Oppenheim was part of this show. In 1938, the museum helped bring the Ballet Russe de Monte-Carlo to the United States for the first time. The stage designs and costumes for the ballet were made by Henri Matisse. This fit with the museum's exhibit at the time, which looked at the art of Matisse and Pablo Picasso. The museum moved again, this time to the Boston Art Club. In 1939, the museum changed its name to the "Institute of Modern Art." It wanted to show it was independent from the Museum of Modern Art. After this name change, the museum held a show of German art that was called "unwanted" by Hitler. Artists in this exhibit included Max Beckmann and Paul Klee. In 1940, the museum hosted a traveling show of Pablo Picasso's art. It was called "Picasso, Forty Years of His Art" and included his famous painting Guernica. The museum moved again to Beacon Street. It also put together the first museum show in the United States for architect Frank Lloyd Wright. The museum stayed on Beacon Street until 1943. Then it moved to Newbury Street. There, it put on the first show in New England featuring African American artists. This exhibit included works by Romare Bearden and Jacob Lawrence. The museum was also important for artists known as the Boston Expressionists. Becoming the ICA In 1948, the "Institute of Modern Art" changed its name one more time to the "Institute of Contemporary Art" (ICA). This new name helped show that the museum focused on art that was happening "now." In the same year, the ICA showed works by Le Corbusier. It was his first show in a United States museum. For the next few years, the ICA had many different art shows. These included a 1950 show of Edvard Munch's art, which featured his famous painting The Scream. In 1952, they showed art by Wassily Kandinsky, including some pieces never seen in the U.S. before. In 1953, they had the first big show looking back at the art of Milton Avery. In 1956, the museum moved again to the School of the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston. In 1958, it organized the first U.S. museum show for Roberto Matta. In 1959, the ICA put art inside a Stop & Shop store for a show called "Young Talent in New England." Some people think this show was an early example of the pop art movement. New Locations and Important Shows In 1960, the ICA moved to the Metropolitan Boston Arts Center. This building was designed by the museum's founder, Nathaniel Saltonstall. It was a modern glass gallery, 80 feet long and 33 feet wide, raised 12 feet off the ground. The ICA stayed there until 1963, then moved to Newbury Street. During these five years, the museum showed art by American artists who were featured at the Venice Biennale. These artists included Jasper Johns and Robert Rauschenberg. In 1965, the museum had an exhibit about video and electronic art called "Art Turned On." Even Marcel Duchamp attended this show. In 1966, the museum organized an Andy Warhol exhibition. It had about 40 works, including his famous Campbell's Soup Cans and portraits of famous people like Marilyn Monroe. The museum also showed Warhol's films for the first time in a museum setting. In the same year, Andy Warhol and The Velvet Underground performed their show "Exploding Plastic Inevitable" at the ICA. In 1968, the ICA returned to the Metropolitan Boston Arts Center for two years. Then, in 1970, it moved to the Parkman House as a temporary home. During these two years, the ICA held an exhibit called "Monumental Sculpture for Public Spaces." Large sculptures by artists like Alexander Calder and Claes Oldenburg were placed in public areas around the city. A very notable sculpture from this exhibit was Robert Indiana's 12-foot-tall LOVE sign, placed on City Hall Plaza. A Long-Term Home and New Ideas In 1972, the ICA had its first solo show for Douglas Huebler. It briefly moved to another spot on Newbury Street. A year later, in 1973, the ICA found a more lasting home at 955 Boylston Street. This building used to be a police station. The museum stayed in this building for 33 years. Many exhibits and performances happened there. Some highlights from the first ten years included a 1976 show for Claes Oldenburg, which Oldenburg himself attended. In 1977, the first show of David Hockney's art in America took place. In 1980, the museum hosted the first U.S. museum show of only Dada artworks. They also had a fun roller disco fundraiser! The 1980s brought more exciting shows. In 1982, the ICA had the first museum shows for Francesco Clemente and Anselm Kiefer. In 1984, the ICA worked with WGBH, Boston's PBS station. They created a fund to help video artists get their works shown on television. Later in the 1980s, the ICA showed works by Allan Sekula in his first museum solo show in 1986. They also had the New England premiere of the film True Stories by David Byrne in 1986. Byrne even came to the screening. In 1989, the museum displayed the first U.S. show for Chris Burden. In 1990, the ICA was the last stop for a traveling exhibit called "The Perfect Moment." It featured works by Robert Mapplethorpe. The museum also showed the first U.S. museum exhibit of works by Sophie Calle. In 1997, Cildo Meireles had his first show in a major U.S. museum at the ICA. Moving to the Waterfront The late 1990s brought big changes to the ICA. A new director, Jill Medvedow, was hired. She started a new project called "Vita Brevis." This project involved commissioning large artworks to be shown in public places around Boston. One of the first works was a film projected onto the Bunker Hill Monument. These public art projects helped more people learn about the museum. Then, in 1999, the ICA won a competition to build a new cultural building. It would be located on Boston's Fan Pier, right on the waterfront. While plans for the new building were being made and construction was happening, the ICA stayed at its Boylston Street location. During these years, the ICA had the first solo museum show for Cornelia Parker in 2000. It also hosted the first U.S. solo exhibit for Olafur Eliasson in 2001. In 2006, the ICA moved to its new 65,000-square-foot building on Fan Pier. This new building has both art galleries and a space for performances. In the same year, the museum started to build its own permanent collection of art. Since moving to its new building, the ICA has hosted world premieres of dance performances. These included shows by the Mark Morris Dance Group in 2007 and the Bill T. Jones/Arnie Zane Dance Company in 2011. Recent exhibits have included the first major museum shows for artists like Tara Donovan in 2008, Damián Ortega in 2009, and Mark Bradford in 2010. ICA Buildings Main Building on the Waterfront The ICA used to be on Boylston Street in the Back Bay area. In 2006, it moved to its new building in the Seaport District of South Boston. The museum celebrated the opening of its new home in December 2006. This new building also marked the start of the museum's first permanent art collection. The new building was designed by the architecture firm Diller Scofidio + Renfro. It was one of their first buildings to be completed, and their first in the United States. It was also the first new art museum built in Boston in over 100 years! The building is easy to reach by public transport. It's located between the Courthouse and World Trade Center stations on the MBTA Silver Line. Many people have praised the building's design. It looks a bit like the gantry cranes used at the nearby harbor. Critics liked its open feel, shown by the large outdoor staircase. They also liked how it connects with the harbor around it. The ICA building won the 2007 Harleston Parker Medal for being "the most beautiful piece of architecture" in Boston. ICA Watershed In 2018, the ICA opened a new space called the "ICA Watershed." It's a 15,000-square-foot building in the Boston Harbor Shipyard and Marina in East Boston. This building used to be old and unused, but it was transformed by architects Alex Anmahian and Nick Winton. It's free to visit the Watershed! The ICA even offers a ferry service from its main building to the Watershed. It's open each year from spring through fall. Each year, a single artist's work fills the entire space. In 2018, the exhibit was by Diana Thater. In 2019, it was by John Akomfrah. The 2021 season featured work by Firelei Báez. The 2022 exhibit was called "Revival: Materials and Monumental Forms" and showed works by six artists. In 2023, the Watershed featured sculptures by Guadalupe Maravilla. The 2024 season presented Hew Locke's work "The Procession." Exhibitions and Programs The ICA has many different types of exhibitions and programs: - Momentum series: This focuses on the work of new and rising artists. - Sandra and Gerald Fineberg Art Wall: Each year, an artist creates a special artwork just for the museum lobby. - James and Audrey Foster Prize: This is a show and award that happens every two years for artists from the Boston area. - Permanent Collection: The museum also shows selected works from its own growing art collection. The largest exhibition space is called the West Gallery. It has featured many solo and group shows. Some past highlights include: - Super Vision (2006) - Philip-Lorca diCorcia (2007) - Anish Kapoor (2008) - Tara Donovan (2008) - Shepard Fairey (2009) - Mark Bradford (2011) - Liz Deschenes (2016) - Mark Dion: Misadventures of a 21st-Century Naturalist (2017) - William Forsythe: Choreographic Objects (2018-2019) - Yayoi Kusama: LOVE IS CALLING (2019-2020) - Virgil Abloh: “Figures of Speech” (2021) - Simone Leigh (2023) Leadership Directors - 1998–2024: Jill Medvedow Chief Curators - 2010–2014: Helen Molesworth - 2015–2023: Eva Respini - 2023–present: Ruth Erickson See also In Spanish: Instituto de Arte Contemporáneo (Boston) para niños


--- [The Blow Up: Hypnotist-Collector Cornelia Parker Comes to America | Arts | The Harvard Crimson] ---
News Jeffrey Epstein, Gerald Chan Coordinated on Proposed Tsinghua University Campus in Boston News Harvard Faculty Cut A Grades by Nearly 7 Percentage Points in Fall News Seven Harvard Affiliates Named 2027 Schwarzman Scholars News Public Health Faculty Slam Harvard’s Removal of FXB Center Director Mary Bassett News A Double-Edged Sword? Double Concentrations Create Both Pressure and Opportunity for Harvard Students VISUALS CORNELIA PARKER CORNELIA PARKER Parker is already well-known in her native England: she was nominated for the Turner Prize in 1997 and had a solo show at the Serpentine Gallery in 1998. But the exhibit now showing exclusively at the ICA is Parker's first stateside museum survey. It is a mesmerizing show, covering a decade of her magical and witty work. Beholder beware: Parker is a sneaky sort of artist. While the explanatory placards that museum curators nail up beside the art are generally a waste of time, Parker packs conceptual punch right in the average aesthete's blind spot--when looking at her work, do stop and read the captions. For instance, one of her pieces is a long piece of metal wire strung through the eye of a needle. The little placard says that the piece is called Three Fathoms in a Thimble and made out of a "silver thimble drawn into wire and threaded through a needle." Eloquent, elegant, it clicks. Or take the Spider that Died in Mark Twain's House, sandwiched between two glass slides and projected on the wall. Although the piece itself is visually arresting, something--some poignancy, some aura--is added by the knowledge that it was in Twain's house that the spider died. In another piece, Shared Fate, we see an array of objects--a pair of gloves, a deck of cards--sliced into by that most humane of execution devices, the guillotine. This wasn't just any big blade; it was, as the caption informs us, the one used to behead Marie Antoinette, now too rusty to slice bread. At times, Parker's verbal wit is the match that lights otherwise dull embers. Measuring Niagara with a Teaspoon, benefits greatly from her title and written explication--"Georgian silver spoon drawn to the height of Niagara Falls." Likewise, Measuring Liberty with a Dollar, made of a silver dollar drawn into a wire the height of the Statue of Liberty, is not primarily a visual experience. If we didn't have Parker's clever titles and explanations, one work might easily be cast aside as a messy tangle of wire, while the other, neatly coiled, has only some nice, simple formal qualities. On some level, her art seems more dependent on the play of language than visual ingenuity. A number of her found objects make this particularly clear, such as Breath of a Librarian, a deflated black balloon found in the reading room of the British Library. Works like this might lead us to wonder whether collector, rather than sculptor, might be a better description for Parker. Parker is the consummate pack-rat, collecting and cherishing all kinds of seemingly worthless objects--rocks, feathers, tarnish rubbings. She combines these materials in ways that are often stunning visually, and, at the same time, she uses them as a means of making associations and narratives. She says that she is intrigued by Freud's theory of the unconscious and has made a photogram of a white feather that came from the pillow on the infamous couch. The feather is associated with slumber, slumber with dreams, dreams with the unconscious and then we're back again at Freud. Parker often takes us on these wonderful little loops. She strings these narratives and chains of association through both her finished works and their making. With Cold Dark Matter: An Exploded View, Parker could have chosen to blow up the garden shed herself. Instead, she called up the British Army and asked them to do it, because that would make a better story. While her narratives and plays of language are fascinating, many of her pieces are also visually spectacular. Admiration for the British landscape painter J.M.W. Turner and a good rummage through the basement of the Tate led her to the "Room for Margins" series. In Turner's time, no corners were cut and paintings were dutifully double-backed--two layers of canvas were used. Turning over the Turners, she placed the 200-year-old canvas backings under glass. Because a horizontal wooden support directly bisected the back of the canvas, a region of the backing was left less weathered, lighter in tone than the rest, so that a pale horizontal bar runs across the middle of each. The canvases look like a miniature Rothkos in sepia tones. Rothko wanted to create "the modern landscape," so the association comes full circle, again. The best of Parker's work, like "Room for Margins," depend on such effective combinations of the visual and the narrative aspects of her art. The most memorable have as much visual as verbal wit, and can stand alone without the extra information, the story, imparted by the caption. A visit to a firearm factory yielded two Colt 45 revolvers, arrested mid-production and polished, so that they look soft and immature, almost harmless. Visually, the pair of handguns look like two Nefertitis moving in for a kiss. Parker's best tricks are her acts of levitation. The ICA is filled with the slender threads by which Parker hangs these pieces in a permanent state of suspense. In a piece called Hanging Fire (Suspected Arson), the charred remains of a London factory fire are hung a foot above ground by barely visible metal wires. The lumps of blackened charcoal, some suspended from their center of mass, some askew, are arranged with the larger pieces on the bottom, getting smaller towards the top. The living fire resides in incinerated stasis; the figurative and literal, the pun and the sculptural elegance of the piece, mingle together. Thirty Pieces of Silver, a Biblical reference to Judas's bounty for his betrayal of Christ is another of Parker's hanging pieces. A cascade of fishing line tenuously holds, in a five-by-six array, thirty pools of steamrolled silverware, from forks to platters to trombones. A slight rumbling from the Green Line below and the room is awash with music. A spiritual experience indeed--it's a near miracle that all those pieces manage to hang without tangling. Unlike the other pieces of display, Thirty Pieces of Silver is accompanied by a photograph of its making. Parker has discontinued documenting the progress of her work photographically, preferring to keep some of the mystery. In all truth, seeing the photo, which is on display beside the finished product at the ICA, makes that final product more vivid. One is given the opportunity to muse about both the chicken and the egg. Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter. Have a tip for The Crimson? Share it confidentially.


--- [Cornelia Parker - ICA Boston] ---
Cornelia Parker’s installations, slide projections, sculptures and photograms consist of “loaded” found objects with a conceptual twist, broaching such topics as destruction and creation, science and religion, gravity and weightlessness. The exhibition at The Institute of Contemporary Art was the first American survey of Parker’s art and brought together over sixty works made in the 1990s including many works that were shown for the first time.
