=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Windows NT 3.1 - Wikipedia]
Windows NT 3.1 was the first version of Windows to use 32-bit flat virtual memory addressing on 32-bit processors. Its companion product, Windows 3.1, used segmented addressing and switches from 16-bit to 32-bit addressing in pages.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Windows_NT_3.1

[What is Windows NT? -- TechTarget Definition]
Apr 3, 2023 · The first version of the OS was released as Windows NT 3.1. It was intended to complement the consumer versions of the MS-DOS -based Windows OS that existed at the time, including Windows 1.0 to Windows 3.1x.
URL: https://www.techtarget.com/searchwindowsserver/definition/Windows-NT

[r/microsoft on Reddit: Microsoft’s pivotal Windows NT 3.5 release made it a serious contender, 31 years ago today]
Another detail often forgotten today: NT wasn't just tied to Intel's x86 world. Microsoft offered NT 3.5 builds for MIPS CPUs, DEC's Alpha chips, and even later PowerPC processors, reflecting Cutler's obsession with portability.
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/microsoft/comments/1nmx4fv/microsofts_pivotal_windows_nt_35_release_made_it/

[Microsoft's Windows NT 4.0 launched 20 years ago this week - Windows 10 Help Forums]
It was generally available as of August 24 that year. NT 4.0 wasn't the first version of Microsoft's NT operating system; that honor went to NT 3.1, which Microsoft launched in July 1993.
URL: https://www.tenforums.com/windows-10-news/57697-microsofts-windows-nt-4-0-launched-20-years-ago-week.html

[Microsoft's Windows NT 4.0 launched 20 years ago this week | ZDNET]
But NT 4.0 was the last major release of Windows to support the Alpha, MIPS and PowerPC architectures. It also was the last release in the NT line to include the "NT" branding.
URL: https://www.zdnet.com/article/microsofts-windows-nt-4-0-launched-20-years-ago-this-week/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Windows NT 3.1 - Wikipedia] ---
Windows NT 3.1 is the first major release of the Windows NT operating system developed by Microsoft, released on July 27, 1993. It marked the company's entry into the corporate computing environment, designed to support large networks and to be portable, compiled for Intel x86, DEC Alpha and MIPS based workstations and servers. It was Microsoft's first 32-bit operating system, providing advantages over the constrictive 16-bit architecture of previous versions of Windows that relied on DOS, but retaining a desktop environment familiar to Windows 3.1 users.
Windows NT began as a rewrite of the OS/2 operating system, which Microsoft had co-developed with IBM but failed to gain much traction against Unix, with vendor Sun Microsystems dominating the market for powerful desktop workstations. For several reasons, including the market success of Windows 3.0 in 1990, Microsoft decided to advance Windows rather than OS/2 and relinquished their OS/2 development responsibilities. By extending the Windows brand and beginning NT at version 3.1, like Windows 3.1 which had established brand recognition and market share, Microsoft implied that consumers should expect a familiar user experience. The name Windows NT ("New Technology") advertised that this was a re-engineered version of Windows.
First publicly demonstrated at Comdex 1991, NT 3.1 was released in 1993 in two editions: Workstation and Advanced Server. When Windows NT premiered, their sales were limited by high system requirements, and a general lack of 32-bit applications to take advantage of the OS's data processing capabilities. It sold about 300,000 copies before it was succeeded by Windows NT 3.5 in 1994. On December 31, 2000, Microsoft declared Windows NT 3.1 obsolete and stopped providing support and updates for the system.
Windows NT 3.1 was the first version of Windows to use 32-bit flat virtual memory addressing on 32-bit processors. Its companion product, Windows 3.1, used segmented addressing and switches from 16-bit to 32-bit addressing in pages.


--- [What is Windows NT? -- TechTarget Definition] ---
Windows NT What is Windows NT? Windows NT was a family of operating systems (OS) developed by Microsoft for personal computers and servers. When it was first released in 1993, the OS featured capabilities that were considered advanced for that era, including multiprocessing, support for multiple users and processor independence. Windows NT may originally have stood for New Technology, although Microsoft hasn't confirmed that. The first version of the OS was released as Windows NT 3.1. It was intended to complement the consumer versions of the MS-DOS-based Windows OS that existed at the time, including Windows 1.0 to Windows 3.1x. The technology of Windows NT was the basis for the Windows 2000 OS that was released in 2000. Windows NT offered both software and hardware portability, and multiple versions were released for various processor architectures, including MIPS, IA-32, ARM, PowerPC and X86-64. Furthermore, Microsoft created a common code base with a hardware abstraction layer for each platform. The OS also supported multiple application program interface (API) personalities like Windows API, POSIX API and OS/2 API to ensure extensive software compatibility. Windows NT Workstation vs. Windows NT Server The Windows NT brand consisted of two products: Microsoft NT Workstation and Microsoft NT Server. The versions were identical in system structure but modified to suit different application environments. Windows NT Workstation was suitable for interactive desktop environments and designed for users who needed fast performance and a fail-safe system. It had the same desktop user interface as Windows 95. The OS was available in both 16- and 32-bit versions and could be connected to up to 10 clients as a network server. However, the OS supported a maximum of two processors and only one remote client access, along with limited network service functions. Windows NT Server provided an easy-to-manage and responsive enterprise network environment. It was meant for business machines that provided services for network-attached computers and for Windows systems that would serve web pages (together with an Internet server such as Microsoft's Internet Information Server, or IIS). NT Server was Microsoft's first purely 32-bit OS and included more advanced functions than NT Workstation. For example, NT Server 4.02 supported up to 32 processors and up to 256 remote client accesses. As a network server, it could connect to clients without restrictions to complete heavy network-related tasks. It also came with built-in disk fault tolerance and support for Macintosh file and print. Key features of Windows NT Windows NT was the first 32-bit version of Windows. Microsoft's previous consumer-oriented operating systems like Windows 3.1x and Windows 9x, were 16-bit/32-bit hybrids. Its kernel could stop any task and start others without inputs from the application programmer. The NT OS also managed virtual memory and supported networking and multiple remote terminals. Windows NT's NTFS file system – which is required by many SQL Server and IIS features – included many multiuser and security features. Its long file names and large disk addressing capability were comparable to the DOS-based FAT system. Windows NT also included several features that were not available with earlier versions of Windows and other OSes: - Support for multiple CPU systems with symmetric multiprocessing technology (SMP). - Compatible with many hardware platforms, including CISC and RISC. - Enabled pre-emptive Multitasking and threading operations. - Support for multiple protocols, including TCP/IP, NetBEUI, Data Link Control, AppleTalk and NWLink. Windows NT also included multi-boot capability that let it coexist with other operating systems. Evolution of Windows NT Development on Windows NT started in 1988, although it wasn't released until 1993. The OS was originally known as OS/2 3.0 and was being developed jointly by Microsoft and IBM. The collaboration eventually fell apart when Microsoft unilaterally decided to change the primary API for the unreleased NT OS/2 from an extended OS/2 API to an extended Windows API. Following the separation, IBM continued developing OS/2 while Microsoft worked on the now-renamed Windows NT OS. From the beginning, Windows NT was designed to run on multiple instruction set architectures and support multiple hardware platforms in each architecture. The design also included a kernel mode module that hid the platform dependencies from the rest of the system. The API sets in Windows NT were also implemented as subsystems atop the native API, allowing for the adoption of the Windows API into the Win32 subsystem. The OS was also the first to use unicode internally. For all these and other reasons, Windows NT became far more successful than IBM's OS/2. Drawbacks of Windows NT For over a decade, Windows NT was one of Microsoft's most popular operating systems due to its high performance, strong application service capability and support for many software applications and processors. It could also run SQL Server databases and IIS web servers, unlike other Windows OSes of the time. Just a few years after release, Windows NT became a major platform for PC-based games and a base technology for workstations. One of its drawbacks was that it was generally not compatible with UNIX in terms of programming APIs except in areas like Windows Sockets. However, NT was comparable to UNIX in terms of its features and capabilities. Another drawback of NT was that it did not run well on systems with slower processors and limited memory. It also created performance issues with applications like Microsoft Office, which were sensitive to data structure alignment issues on RISC processors.


--- [r/microsoft on Reddit: Microsoft’s pivotal Windows NT 3.5 release made it a serious contender, 31 years ago today] ---
You've been blocked by network security. To continue, log in to your Reddit account or use your developer token If you think you've been blocked by mistake, file a ticket below and we'll look into it. Log in File a ticket


--- [Microsoft's Windows NT 4.0 launched 20 years ago this week - Windows 10 Help Forums] ---
New #1 Yeah, I had just gotten a copy of WinNT 3.51 when 4.0 was announced so I went with the new, good experience as I was in a computer shop and everything was networked. Sunday July 31 marks 20 years since Microsoft launched Windows NT 4.0. On July 31, 1996, Microsoft released NT 4.0 to manufacturing. It was generally available as of August 24 that year. NT 4.0 wasn't the first version of Microsoft's NT operating system; that honor went to NT 3.1, which Microsoft launched in July 1993. There are a few different stories as to why Microsoft named the operating system "NT," but over time, the most common story was that NT stood for "New Technology." Microsoft Distinguished Engineer Dave Cutler wrote the NT core. But NT 4.0 was the last major release of Windows to support the Alpha, MIPS and PowerPC architectures. It also was the last release in the NT line to include the "NT" branding There were a number of NT variants, including a Windows NT 4.0 Workstation client OS. (Interestingly, there are rumors circulating that Microsoft might possibly be introducing a Workstation version of Windows Server 2016, though I haven't been able to get any kind of believable confirmation of that -- so far.) NT 4.0 also came in Server, Terminal Server and Embedded editions. In the time since its initial release, Windows NT morphed to become Windows Server. As an anniversary page for the operating system that Microsoft made available today notes, the server team added Active Directory, Group Policy, .NET support and more to what debuted as the NT core. The 2003 R2 Server release, released in 2005, provided the foundation for Microsoft to build Azure, Microsoft's cloud operating system... Read more: Microsoft's Windows NT 4.0 launched 20 years ago this week | ZDNet See also: Windows Server: 20th Year Anniversary Yeah, I had just gotten a copy of WinNT 3.51 when 4.0 was announced so I went with the new, good experience as I was in a computer shop and everything was networked. I still have mine (NT4 SP1). I did have it running in a VR, but I lost it in a crash. Will set it up again one of these days. Wenda. Hi there over the years I've installed every version of windows --even as far back to windows/286 --that's probably a long time before some members of this Forum were even thought of --much less actually born. I have to say that Windows NT ranks as THE WORST O/S I've ever used --everything - even simple networking was a major exercise to get it working - you needed a Doctorate in Computer Science even to understand the documentation. We referred to Windows NT as WINDOWS NEANDERTHAL or WINDOWS NO THANKS, The best Windows versions were : (IMO) Windows 3.11 for workgroups Windows 95 Windows 2000 Windows 2003 Server --- still doing sterling service - it's now on the final chapter but it really was a great networking OS. Windows XP (probably one of the most popular OS'es ever was based on it). Windows XP Windows 7 Windows 10 Windows Vista would have been OK but came out too early before hardware was up to it --if you run it in modern hardware on say a VM you can see that it was actually OK. Dogs were Windows NT Windows Millenium Windows 8 Windows before 3.0 And I'm being unkind to Dogs here --especially with Windows NT --a Guiness book of records entry should be submitted for the world's "Most User AGGRESSIVE" system ever to hit the planet. I remember with horror with horror trying to get simple networking connections and RAS to work. RIP Windows NT and GOOD RIDDANCE -- nobody will miss you --unlike Win XP etc. Cheers jimbo You only think you're old, Jimbo. I started on an old IBM mainframe with Fortran back in the early '70s. On the PC side, I first loaded MSDOS 2.11 in 1983. Then upgraded to Windows 1.0 and on up the ladder. NT, was a work in progress. Many core objects carried over into subsequent Windows, most notably the disk file system, NTFS, which is pretty much the standard disk file system for XP on. The biggest complaint that I ever heard about NT was that it attempted to make a clean break from what came before. It simply didn't work like what was familiar to users.


--- [Microsoft's Windows NT 4.0 launched 20 years ago this week | ZDNET] ---
Microsoft's Windows NT 4.0 launched 20 years ago this week Sunday July 31 marks 20 years since Microsoft launched Windows NT 4.0. On July 31, 1996, Microsoft released NT 4.0 to manufacturing. It was generally available as of August 24 that year. NT 4.0 wasn't the first version of Microsoft's NT operating system; that honor went to NT 3.1, which Microsoft launched in July 1993. There are a few different stories as to why Microsoft named the operating system "NT," but over time, the most common story was that NT stood for "New Technology." Microsoft Distinguished Engineer Dave Cutler wrote the NT core. But NT 4.0 was the last major release of Windows to support the Alpha, MIPS and PowerPC architectures. It also was the last release in the NT line to include the "NT" branding. There were a number of NT variants, including a Windows NT 4.0 Workstation client OS. (Interestingly, there are rumors circulating that Microsoft might possibly be introducing a Workstation version of Windows Server 2016, though I haven't been able to get any kind of believable confirmation of that -- so far.) NT 4.0 also came in Server, Terminal Server and Embedded editions. In the time since its initial release, Windows NT morphed to become Windows Server. As an anniversary page for the operating system that Microsoft made available today notes, the server team added Active Directory, Group Policy, .NET support and more to what debuted as the NT core. The 2003 R2 Server release, released in 2005, provided the foundation for Microsoft to build Azure, Microsoft's cloud operating system. I have (somewhat) fond memories of NT 4, as it was the operating system that helped launched my career as a full-time Microsoft watcher at PCWeek (now eWeek). I started at PCWeek as a dedicated Unix reporter back in the day. When the former Microsoft reporter there left, I was drafted for that job because (as my editor suggested at the time), "NT is pretty much like Unix" (I guess because both were primarily server operating systems?) I feel like I've come full circle now that the Windows 10 Anniversary Update will add a Bash shell.and Windows Subsystem for Linux. The next milestone in the NT/Server family, Windows Server 2016, will launch in late September this year and be available around the beginning of October 2016.
