=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Jack Layton, McGILL 1971, enters Chapter Eternal.]
Brother Layton pledged to join Sigma Chi in August 1968 and was initiated into our Order Nov. 29, 1968 at the Gamma Lambda Chapter of Sigma Chi at McGill University.
URL: https://myemail.constantcontact.com/Jack-Layton--McGILL-1971--enters-Chapter-Eternal-.html?soid=1106091886633&aid=CriTa1Fdy8c

[Jack Layton (1950-2011) - McGill Reporter]
Aug 27, 2011 · On top of making the University swim and water polo teams, he also became a Brother of the Sigma Chi fraternity. Like so many young intellectuals, Layton was caught up in the exciting swirl of Quebec politics of the late 1960s.
URL: https://reporter.mcgill.ca/layton-to-be-laid-to-rest-today/

[Jack Layton - Reference.org]
That same year, Layton graduated from McGill University with a Bachelor of Arts (BA) with honours in political science and economics, and was a member of the Sigma Chi fraternity.
URL: https://reference.org/facts/Jack_Layton/cG2furov

[Jack Layton]
... was a member of the Sigma Chi fraternity. During his time spent at McGill, Layton's view on politics had been greatly influenced by professor, ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jack_Layton

[Jack Layton Explained]
Jan 25, 2003 · That same year, Layton graduated from McGill University with a Bachelor of Arts (BA) in political science, [7] and was a member of the Sigma Chi fraternity. [8]
URL: https://everything.explained.today/%5C/Jack_Layton/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Jack Layton, McGILL 1971, enters Chapter Eternal.] ---
No content


--- [Jack Layton (1950-2011) - McGill Reporter] ---
By Neale McDevitt Canadians of all political stripes paid their final respects to Jack Layton (BA’71) on Saturday in a moving state funeral held in Toronto. Layton, the charismatic leader of the New Democratic Party who almost single-handedly catapulted his party to become the Official Opposition in May’s federal election, died on Aug. 22 in his Toronto home following a battle with an undisclosed cancer. He was 61. “Jack inspired the whole country and brought a hope and optimism to politics that hasn’t been there for a long time,” said Jamie Nicholls, MP for Vaudreuil-Soulanges and a doctoral student at McGill’s School of Urban Planning, Policy and Design. “I think that will be his lasting legacy – he made us believe.” Nicholls was part of the famed “Orange Crush” in the last federal election that saw the NDP win a record 103 seats, including 59 in Quebec. Five of the newly minted Quebec MPs are McGill students. “Let’s put this up front – Jack is irreplaceable,” said Nicholls. “But he represented the party’s values and I know each of my colleagues in caucus share these same values. That vision – Jack’s vision – will never disappear.” Politics in his bloodline Layton’s love of politics was seemingly woven into his DNA. His father, Robert Layton, was twice elected as a Progressive Conservative MP for the riding of Lachine and served as Minister of State for Mines in the cabinet of Prime Minister Brian Mulroney. His grandfather, Gilbert Layton, was a cabinet minister in the Union Nationale government of Maurice Duplessis, and his great granduncle, William Steeves, was a reformist Father of Confederation. The Montreal native dove into the political forum at an early age, being elected student council president of Hudson High School. A lifelong champion of social justice and equality, the young Layton drew the ire of some members of the predominantly Anglophone Hudson Yacht Club when he, as junior commodore, invited a slew of his francophone friends to one of the club’s youth dances. With his appetite sufficiently whetted, Layton enrolled in political science at McGill. On top of making the University swim and water polo teams, he also became a Brother of the Sigma Chi fraternity. Like so many young intellectuals, Layton was caught up in the exciting swirl of Quebec politics of the late 1960s. Among other things, Layton took part in a protest of some 10,000 people demanding to have more courses taught in French at McGill. It was also while at McGill that Layton met and was inspired by a young philosophy professor named Charles Taylor. Today considered one of the most influential philosophers alive, the young Taylor was also active in politics and spoke against consensus-building and maintained that the most fertile ideological fields were sown with seeds of sharply opposing views. Diving into the political forum But his political career would be launched and carried on in Toronto. Layton won his first election race in 1982, when he surprised experts by beating incumbent Gordon Chong for a seat on Toronto city council. Raising the bar of his political aspirations, Layton ran an unsuccessful campaign for the Toronto mayoralty in 1991. After a hiatus, he returned to the municipal scene in 1994 and was regarded by many to be the “conscious of Toronto politics.” In 2003, with the endorsement of former NDP leader Ed Broadbent, Layton was elected leader of the NDP on the first ballot. The following year, he became the MP for Toronto- Danforth after beating incumbent Liberal MP Dennis Mills in the 2004 federal election. Buoyed by his leadership, the NDP nearly doubled its share of the popular vote from the previous election and came away with 19 seats. The upward trend continued in both the 2006 and 2008 federal elections in which the party won 29 in 2006 and 37 seats respectively. But Layton’s greatest political victory was to come earlier this year, in the May federal elections. Layton hit the campaign trail on the limp following surgery to repair a broken hip. But, focusing on the Harper government’s record on health care and promising to cap credit card interest rates, Layton began to hit his stride, albeit with a walking stick. The NDP’s poll numbers, middling before the election, began to surge – especially in Quebec where the party began overtaking the front-running Bloc Québécois. Layton’s image as “un bon Jack” (a good guy) struck a chord with Quebec voters and, riding the wave of its leader’s popularity, the NDP shocked everyone by winning 103 seats and becoming the Official Opposition for the first time in its history. The celebration was short-lived, however. On July 25, a gaunt Layton announced that he had been diagnosed with an unspecified form of cancer and would be taking a temporary leave to fight it. Layton, who had successfully fought prostate cancer the previous year, said he was hoping to return as leader of the NDP upon the resumption of the House of Commons on September 19. That return never materialized as, on Aug. 22, it was announced he had succumbed to his illness. In a statement issued upon Layton’s death, Principal Heather Munroe-Blum said: “Just a year ago, Mr. Layton visited our campus to meet with the incoming class of first-year McGill students. Higher education, he told them, ‘is an investment in making a better world, in finding solutions to some of the challenges that we’re dealing with as a community, as a global society, as a series of neighborhoods.’ “In the four decades since his graduation in 1971, Jack Layton displayed remarkable courage and determination in seeking solutions to many of society’s most difficult challenges,” she continued. “We will greatly miss him, but will always treasure the wisdom and good humour that he so generously shared.”


--- [Jack Layton - Reference.org] ---
No content


--- [Jack Layton] ---
John Gilbert Layton  (July 18, 1950 – August 22, 2011) was a Canadian politician and academic who served as the leader of the New Democratic Party (NDP) from 2003 to 2011 and leader of the Official Opposition in 2011. He previously sat on Toronto City Council, occasionally holding the title of acting mayor or deputy mayor of Toronto during his tenure as city councillor. Layton was the member of Parliament (MP) for Toronto—Danforth from 2004 until his death.
The son of Robert Layton, a Progressive Conservative cabinet minister, Layton was raised in Hudson, Quebec. He rose to prominence in Toronto municipal politics, where he was one of the most prominent left-wing voices on the city and Metropolitan Toronto councils, championing many progressive causes. In 1991, he ran for mayor, losing to June Rowlands. Returning to council, he rose to become head of the Federation of Canadian Municipalities. In 2003, he was elected leader of the NDP on the first ballot of the leadership election.
Under his leadership, support for the NDP increased in each election. The party's popular vote almost doubled in the 2004 election, which gave the NDP the balance of power in Paul Martin's minority government. In May 2005, the NDP supported the Liberal budget in exchange for major amendments, in what was promoted as Canada's "first NDP budget". In November of that year, Layton voted with other opposition parties to defeat the Liberal government over the findings of the Gomery Commission. The NDP saw further gains in the 2006 and 2008 elections, in which the party elected 29 and 37 MPs, respectively. His wife, Olivia Chow, was also an MP and has served as the 66th mayor of Toronto since 2023.
In the 2011 election, Layton led the NDP to the most successful result in the party's history, winning 103 seats—making the party the Official Opposition for the first time. Federal support for Layton and the NDP in the election was unprecedented, especially in the province of Quebec, where the party won 59 out of 75 seats.
Layton died on August 22, 2011, after being diagnosed with cancer. Details of the type and spread of the cancer, and the exact cause of death, were not released to the public. Shortly before he died, Layton had nominated Nycole Turmel as interim leader of the NDP and, consequently, of the Official Opposition. Tom Mulcair won the leadership election to succeed him.


--- [Jack Layton Explained] ---
No content
