=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[About IFK]
The IFK (Kyokushin) was founded in 1992 by Hanshi Steve Arneil (10th Dan) to: If there was one goal Hanshi Arneil wished the IFK to achieve it is consistency.
URL: https://www.ifk-kyokushin.com/about-ifk

[IFK Göteborg]
History. The IFK Göteborg squad in the year 1905. IFK Göteborg was founded on 4 October 1904, at Café Olivedal in the Annedal district of Linnéstaden in ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IFK_G%C3%B6teborg

[About USA-IFK Kyokushin]
Founded in 1996 by Shihan Michael Monaco under the guidance of IFK founder, Hanshi Steve Arneil, the USA-IFK continues to grow, united by discipline, respect, ...
URL: https://uskyokushin.com/usa-ifk-kyokushin

[IFK Kyokushinkai - Bienvenidos a I.F.K. Kyokushin Karate Uruguay]
Sosai (President) Masutatsu Oyama, the founder of Kyokushin Karate, was born in southern Korea in 1923. While living at his sister's farm in Manchuria at the ...
URL: https://www.ifk-uruguay.com/ifkkyokushinkaie.html

[A tradition older than a country: IFK and the Sweden-inspired sports ...]
by K Herd · 2023 · Cited by 2 — The idea of IFK clubs reached Finland in 1897 and spread throughout the country. The beginning of the twentieth century was a period of growth ...
URL: https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/full/10.1080/14660970.2023.2179195


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [About IFK] ---
ABOUT THE IFK (KYOKUSHIN) The IFK (Kyokushin) was founded in 1992 by Hanshi Steve Arneil (10th Dan) to: - promote on an international basis the teaching, practice and dissemination of information on Kyokushin karate; - establish a unified system of kihon, kata and gradings within national organisations; - provide an International identity to national organisations; - establish a centre for the issue of International Dan Grade Certificates and in providing the above, continue to maintain the national countries’ own independence, ideal and philosophy. If there was one goal Hanshi Arneil wished the IFK to achieve it is consistency. Sosai Mas Oyama had told him the only way an international organisation could be unified is by regulating the practice and teaching of kata and kihon across the various national organisations whereby all Kyokushin karateka, in any dojo from any country should perform the techniques and katas in the same manner. To that end, Hanshi Arneil has developed a systematic grading syllabus for the IFK and published an invaluable book on Kyokushin Kata to enable the individual to strive for the same level of excellence.


--- [IFK Göteborg] ---
Idrottsföreningen Kamraterna Göteborg (officially IFK Göteborg Fotboll), commonly known as IFK Göteborg, IFK (especially locally) or Blåvitt, is a Swedish professional football club based in Gothenburg. Founded in 1904, it is the only club in the Nordic countries that has won one of the main UEFA competitions, having won the UEFA Cup in both 1982 and 1987. IFK is affiliated with Göteborgs Fotbollförbund and play their home games at Gamla Ullevi. The club colours are blue and white, colours shared both with the sports society which the club originated from, Idrottsföreningen Kamraterna, and with the coat of arms of the city of Gothenburg. The team colours have influenced the historical nickname Blåvitt. The blue and white are in stripes, with blue shorts and socks.
Besides the two UEFA Cup titles, IFK have won 18 Swedish championship titles, second most in Swedish football after Malmö FF, and have the second most national cup titles with eight. The team has qualified for four group stages of the UEFA Champions League, and reached the semi-finals of the 1985–86 European Cup. IFK Göteborg is the only club team in any sport to have won the Jerring Award, an award for best Swedish sports performance of the year voted by the Swedish people, for the 1982 UEFA Cup victory. 
IFK Göteborg play in the highest Swedish league, Allsvenskan, where they have played for the majority of their history. They have played in the Swedish first tier continuously since 1977, which is the longest ongoing top-flight tenure in Sweden. The club won its first Swedish championship in 1908, four years after the founding, and has won at least one championship title in every decade since, except the 1920s, 1970s and 2010s. IFK Göteborg's most successful period was from 1982 to 1996, when the team prospered in European football and won 10 out of 15 Swedish championships.


--- [About USA-IFK Kyokushin] ---
USA-IFK Kyokushin Karate Who We Are USA-IFK is the official U.S. member of the International Federation of Karate (IFK), led by Country Representative Shihan Michael Monaco. As part of the global IFK community, USA-IFK works to preserve Kyokushin’s founding spirit while supporting dojos, instructors, and students across the United States.We are a community of dojos, instructors, and students dedicated to preserving the legacy of Kyokushin Karate through traditional training, modern application, and full-contact spirit. Founded in 1996 by Shihan Michael Monaco under the guidance of IFK founder, Hanshi Steve Arneil, the USA-IFK continues to grow, united by discipline, respect, and a shared commitment to the values of Kyokushin. 🥋 A nationwide community of like-minded Kyokushin dojos 📆 Access to national and international seminars and tournaments 🛡️ A strong foundation in traditional Kyokushin training and values 🧭 Leadership under experienced instructors with direct lineage to Sosai Mas Oyama, Soshu Shigeru Oyama, and Hanshi Steve Arneil 🤝 A no-politics environment focused on growth, respect, and purpose 🔗 Affiliated with the International Federation of Karate (IFK) with 65+ Member Countries Worldwide 🥋 What We Stand For At the heart of Kyokushin is a philosophy of constant self-improvement. The USA-IFK supports this through: Hard training Respect for tradition and lineage Strong fundamentals: Kihon, Kata, and Kumite Supportive community across all ranks and regions Open events and fair competition with no organizational politics Whether you're a new student, seasoned fighter, or independent instructor, our doors are open to those who seek growth through honest effort. Our Lineage The strength of our organization comes from the vision and leadership of those who came before us. “USA-IFK’s leadership traces directly to the source — from Sosai Mas Oyama to Soshu Shigeru Oyama and Hanshi Steve Arneil, and now to Shihan Michael Monaco, our U.S. Country Representative.” Sosai Masutatsu Oyama (1923–1994) Founder of Kyokushin Karate Sosai Oyama created Kyokushin in the 1950s, introducing a revolutionary style rooted in power, discipline, and reality-based training. Known for his bull fights, 100-man kumite, and global reach, he built one of the most respected martial arts systems in the world. Soshu Shigeru Oyama (1935-2016) Founder of World Oyama Karate Soshu Oyama was one of Sosai Mas Oyama’s most senior and accomplished students—described by Sosai as his “best student” in a 1970 photo taken at Kyokushin Honbu. A powerful technician and charismatic teacher, he played a key role in spreading Kyokushin internationally during its formative years. Though he later established his own organization, Soshu Oyama’s contributions to the legacy of Kyokushin remain deeply respected. 🔗 [Read more ›] Hanshi Steve Arneil (1934–2021) Founder of the IFK A direct student of Mas Oyama and the first to complete the 100-man kumite after Sosai, Hanshi Arneil founded the International Federation of Karate in 1992. He believed in preserving Kyokushin's essence while fostering an international community free from politics and ego. Shihan Michael Monaco (8th Dan) Founder of USA-IFK Shihan Monaco is one of the rare people who not only trained under Sosai Oyama, but also his two top disciples, Soshu Shigeru Oyama and Hanshi Steve Arneil. Shihan Monaco has dedicated over 50 years to the growth of Kyokushin in the United States. He established the USA-IFK in 1996 and continues to lead through example — as an instructor, international official, and respected martial artist. 📸 USA-IFK in Action Want to see what Kyokushin looks like? Explore our Media Gallery for photos and videos of training, competition, and community from dojos across the country. 🤝 Join the Journey Whether you’re looking for a dojo, a tournament, or a community built on respect and real training — USA-IFK welcomes you. TRAINING Join us for workshops and seminars conducted by skilled professionals and experienced educators from across the United States and internationally. USA-IFK prides itself on its no-politics approach. Click the appropriate button above for more information. © 2025. All rights reserved.


--- [IFK Kyokushinkai - Bienvenidos a I.F.K. Kyokushin Karate Uruguay] ---
SOSAI MAS OYAMA Sosai (President) Masutatsu Oyama, the founder of Kyokushin Karate, was born in southern Korea in 1923. While living at his sister's farm in Manchuria at the age of nine, he began his lifelong journey along the Martial Way when he began studying the southern Chinese form of kempo know as "Eighteen Hands". When Mas Oyama returned to Korea at the age of 12, he continued his training in Korean kempo. Gichin FunakoshiIn 1938, at the age of 15, Mas Oyama moved to Japan to train as an aviator, and continued his martial arts training by participating in judo and boxing. Shortly afterwards, he began training at the dojo of Gichin Funakoshi, who had brought karate from Okinawa to Japan and developed what is now known as Shotokan Karate. Mas Oyama's training progressed so rapidly that by the age of 17, he was a Nidan (2nd Dan), and by the age of 20, he was a Yondan(4th Dan) in Shotokan. At this point, Mas Oyama took a serious interest in Judo , and in less than four years he achieved the rank of Yondan in Judo as well. Nei-Chu SoAfter the end of World War II, Mas Oyama began training under Nei-Chu So, one of the highest authorities in Japan of Goju Ryu , an Okinawan karate style. Master So, renowned for the power of his body as well as his spiritual insight, encouraged Mas Oyama to dedicate his life to Budo, the Martial Way. He suggested that Mas Oyama retreat from civilization for three years to train his mind and body without the distractions of the outside world. Samurai WarriorsAround this time, Mas Oyama also met Eiji Yoshikawa, the author of the novel MusashI, which was based on the life and exploits of Miyamoto Musashi, Japan's most famous Samurai warrior. Both the novel and the author helped to teach him the meaning of Bushido , the Way of the Warrior. That same year, Mas Oyama went to Mt. Minobu in Chiba Prefecture, where Musashi had developed his style of sword fighting. Mas Oyama thought that this would be an appropriate place to begin the rigorous training he had planned for himself. Accompanied by a student, he went into the wilderness there to train, with a friend bringing food supplies to them once a month. After six months of training, his student was unable to handle the solitude and secretly fed during the night, leaving Mas Oyama completely alone to continue his training. After fourteen months of training in the wilderness, his friend informed Mas Oyama that he could no longer provide the monthly supplies of food, and Mas Oyama had to return to civilization. MakiwaraA few months later, in 1947, Mas Oyama won the karate section of the first Japanese National Martial Arts Championships after World War II. However, still feeling empty for not having completed the three years of solitude, he decided to dedicate his life completely to karate. Once again Mas Oyama left civilization for the wilderness, this time going to Mt. Kiyozumi, also in Chiba Prefecture, which he chose for its spiritually uplifting environment. This time his training was fanatical – 12 hours a day, every day, with no rest days, standing under cold buffeting waterfalls, breaking river stones with his hands, using trees as Makiwara (striking boards), jumping over rapidly growing flax plants hundreds of times each day. Each day also included a period of study of the ancients classics on the martial arts, Zen, and philosophy. After eighteen months of rigorous training, Mas Oyama returned to civilization fully confident in himself and able to take control of his life. In the 1950s, Mas Oyama began demonstrating his power and skill by fighting bulls. In all, he fought 52 bulls, three of which he killed instantly and 49 of whose horns he took off with Shuto (knife hand) strikes. In 1952, Mas Oyama traveled throughout the United States for a year, demonstrating his karate live and on national television. During subsequent years, he took on all challengers, resulting in fights with 270 different people. He defeated the vast majority of his opponents with just one technique. A fight never lasted more than three minutes, and rarely lasted more than a few seconds. Mas Oyama's fighting technique was based on the Samurai warriors' principle of "Ichi Geki Hissatsu", or "One strike, certain death". If he got through to you, the fight was over. If he hit you, you broke – if you blocked his punch, your arm was broken or dislocated, if you didn't block it, your rib was broken. Because of his strength and skill, he became known as "the Godhand". KyokushinkaiFirst DojoIn 1953, Mas Oyama opened his first "dojo" on a grass lot in Tokyo. In 1955, he opened his first real dojo in a former ballet studio behind Rikkyo University. In 1957, the name Kyokushin, meaning "Ultimate Truth", was adopted for Mas Oyama's karate organization, which had 700 members by then, despite the high drop-out rate due to the severity of training. Practitioners of other styles also came to train here for the Jissen Kumite (full contact fighting). Mas Oyama would observe those from other styles and adopt any techniques that would be useful in a fight. By doing so, Kyokushin Karate evolved into one of the most formidable style of martial arts in the world. It soon became known as "The Strongest Karate", not only because of the incredible feats of strength and endurance that Mas Oyama performed, but also because of the rigorous requirements of the training and tournaments. Oyama TrainingIn order to test his own abilities, Mas Oyama decided to perform a Three Hundred Man Kumite (San-Byakunin Kumite) in three days. He chose the strongest students in his dojo to fight him one at a time. After each had a turn, they started from the beginning again until all three hundred fights were completed. Each student had to face Mas Oyama about four times over the three days, though some never made it past the first day due to Oyama's powerful blows. He defeated all of his opponents, never wavering in his resolve, despite the fact that he was injured in the process. Legend has it that Mas Oyama was willing to go for a fourth day, but no opponents were willing or able to do so. SosaiSosaiSince its inception, Kyokushin Karate has spread to more than 120 countries, with more than twelve million practitioners, making it one of the largest martial arts styles in the world. In 1992, Sosai Oyama visited the United States, and was the guest of honor at the 1st Annual American International Karate Championships in Rochester. His visit was featured in an article in the Japanese magazine Power Karate Illustrated. Sadly, Mas Oyama (a non-smoker) died of lung cancer in 1994. (uskyokushin.com)


--- [A tradition older than a country: IFK and the Sweden-inspired sports ...] ---
ABSTRACT This article presents several sport clubs in Finland connected to an organization Idrottsförening Kamraterna (Sporting Society Comrades), also known as IFK that originated in Sweden in 1895. The idea of IFK clubs reached Finland in 1897 and spread throughout the country. The beginning of the twentieth century was a period of growth and expansion for IFK, both in Sweden and Finland. IFK clubs formed an important network of sport-based activities, including football, when Finland was still a part of the former Russian empire. The aim of the article is to analyse how the modern Finnish IFKs from four different locations (Mariehamn, Åbo, Helsingfors and Grankulla) can retrace and frame their past. Introduction This article presents four sport clubs in Finland connected to an organization Idrottsförening Kamraterna (Sporting Society Comrades), also known as IFK that originated in Sweden in 1895. The IFK movement was born from an intersection of a mass-media boom, interest in sport and an emerging youth culture at the end of the nineteenth century. The movement reached Finland in 1897 and spread throughout the country.Footnote1 The beginning of the twentieth century was a period of expansion for IFK, both in Sweden and Finland. IFK clubs formed an important network of sport-based activities, including football, when Finland was still a part of the Russian empire. In Finland, IFK has been strongly attached to the Swedish-speaking minority, which in turn tends to be associated with the old, educated elites from the past. The aim of this article is to analyse how the modern Finnish IFKs from four different locations – Mariehamn, Åbo (i.e. Turku), Helsingfors (i.e. Helsinki) and Grankulla (i.e. Kauniainen) – retrace and frame their past. The article focuses on how the clubs relate to the past and how IFK’s history provides elements for their identity and relevance in society. Background IFK was a sport organization established spontaneously by Swedish youths in 1895 through the youth magazine Kamraten (1893–1911). It spread quickly and became a strong element in Swedish sport history, with two IFKs becoming dominant in Swedish football: IFK Göteborg and IFK Norrköping. The first IFKs in Finland were established in 1897. The Swedish language was vital for the development of this association in Finland. This includes Swedish newspapers and magazines such as NordisktIdrottslif (1900–1920) and the aforementioned Kamraten. The common symbol developed for the organization is a blue star on a white background, and these colours are used by many IFK clubs. The central IFK organization still exists in Stockholm, but the clubs are independent entities.Footnote2 In 2007 there were 170 IFKs registered in Sweden and representing different sport disciplines.Footnote3 Finland used to be the Eastern part of the Swedish kingdom for centuries and became a part of Russian Empire after the Swedish-Russian war in 1809, but it was subjected to cultural influx from Sweden throughout the 1800. The Swedish-speaking population was a minority but formed a strong and educated part of the Finnish society. The booming market of new press in Sweden in the nineteenth century prompted the appearance of the first Finnish newspapers in SwedishFootnote4 and the access to the new mass media was crucial for establishing IFKs in Finland.Footnote5 The establishment of IFK was in line with the promotions of sports and games. A good citizen was a healthy, strong citizen. The Swedish military and sports enthusiast Viktor Balck produced three volumes that introduced different sports to Swedish-speaking audiences. His works were known in Finland and Helsingfors IFK presented him as ‘the father of Swedish sports’.Footnote6 Balck had a strong influence, and lobbied for Finland’s appearances in the Olympic Games, even though the country was not independent.Footnote7 In the beginning, IFKs were united by the magazine Kamraten. The IFK clubs in Finland shared their sporting results on the magazine’s pages in letters to their ‘Swedish comrades’, described their lives as students and told stories from excursions and trips. For instance, in 1898, George Doubidsky, one of the founders of Helsingfors IFK, sent a text about news from Finland. He explained that because of a lack of snow they could not have many winter sport competitions, but organized an impressive party for a hundred people.Footnote8 Letters from IFKs in Finnish cities of Vasa, Viborg and Uleåborg appeared regularly as well. The development of IFKs in Finland show how IFK helped to establish football in the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries. Since IFK were strongly connected to the Swedish language, they were associated with the Swedish-speaking minority in Finland. Minorities can have a strong influence on a state’s culture, politics and economy and find different expressions of their unique positions.Footnote9 The Swedish press in Finland introduced many new sports. It was in Hufvudstadsbladet that football rules were published in Finland for the first time in the 1870s.Footnote10 Sports convey processes that take place in society through stories about football, players, coaches and sports venues. Hence, sport is rarely only about sport, and its history have become a hot issue.Footnote11 Historian David Lowenthal states that saving the past has become a universal concern and ‘possessing’ a heritage is ‘as vital a nutriment as food and drink’.Footnote12 IFK exemplifies a development from a youth activity to well-established football clubs in both Sweden and Finland. The introduction of ‘the English sport’ – football – took many different paths.Footnote13 Swedish newspapers and magazines were important sources for popularizing football and the Swedish-speaking population in Finland took advantage of the opportunity to participate in discussions that were taking place in Sweden. Methods and material The four clubs included in this article are Helsingfors IFK (est. 1897), Grankulla IFK (est. 1925), Åbo IFK (est. 1908) and IFK Mariehamn (est. 1919). Because the material from primary sources is in Swedish, the place names used in the article are in Swedish too.Footnote14 Three of the clubs (Helsingfors, Åbo and Grankulla) reside in the south and south-west area, which also are the areas of Finland with the largest Swedish-speaking populations. Mariehamn is the capital of Åland, a group of islands between Sweden and Finland, which is autonomous from Finland in many regards, though formally a part of it. The official language in Åland is Swedish. This article is based on interviews and archive material. Interviews were conducted between August 2019 and March 2021.Footnote15 Fieldwork possibilities for this projectFootnote16 were unfortunately limited due to the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic in 2020. The interview material comes from four interviews with officials working for each of these clubs, plus two interviews with supporters (one a supporter of IFK Mariehamn and the other a supporter of Helsingfors IFK).Footnote17 The analysed archival material includes magazines, newspaper clippings and annuals. The main source is the Swedish youth magazine Kamraten. Swedish and Finnish newspapers from the end of the nineteenth century and the beginning of the twentieth century were scanned as well.Footnote18 The visited archives include Lund University Archives, Brages Press Archive in Helsingfors, archives at the Sport Museum in Helsingfors, and Helsingfors IFK’s own archive. The difficulty with archive material is its selectiveness. Unfortunately, there are holes when it comes to continuity. The material was approached by close reading and qualitative interpretation.Footnote19 Literary scholar Michael Oriard, who worked on similar archival material, demonstrated in his study how (American) football was established with the help of growing mass media in the 19th century and how the sport was attributed with a certain cultural symbolism with the help of daily press, radio, and films.Footnote20 Because of the political situation (Finland being a part of Russia 1809–1917), newspapers published in (or imported for) the Finnish market had to deal with Russian censorship for many decades.Footnote21 Officially, Sweden avoided clashes with Russia, but publications in Kamraten strike a clear pro-Finnish tone, in favour of Finnish independence from Russia, and Stockholm served as a basis for underground publishing that was intended for Finnish readers.Footnote22 Reports from sporting events appeared regularly in the Finn-Swedish press, like football results from England and Sweden, especially after 1910. Theoretical framework The theoretical framework includes historian David Lowenthal’s and folklorist Henry Glassie’s approaches to functions of historical knowledge.Footnote23 This article does not use one specific theory but is motivated by work on how the past is constructed and how history is used to frame and negotiate the present. Lowenthal’s publication The Past is A Foreign Country stresses the bricolage-like approach to history that used to be the norm and has been seemingly abandoned.Footnote24 This understanding of history is found in IFKs’ narrations. The more contemporary publications about the clubs are characterized by nostalgia as they attempt to connect the present-day clubs to a beautiful and captivating past. This may be partly because the transmission of history through, about and within IFK is done on semi-formal level, for instance in books that are written by enthusiasts.Footnote25 The ‘good old days’ appear often in stories concerning sports such as football.Footnote26 Lowenthal expresses a critical view of such ‘nostalgic obsession’: Besides nostalgia’s starry-eyed view of wretched times, falsified history, kitschy commerce, and regressive elitism, it is faulted for foolish faith that issues were faced, action taken, crises averted, and problems solved better and faster in the past.Footnote27 Sport is a category that highlights everyday life in a historical context, making the past alive.Footnote28 Henry Glassie has also analysed the transmission, time frames and passing of history. On the basis of his study in a small town in Northern Ireland, he highlights a pragmatic element of history: what survives and is taught further has to have a point for the future. He writes: ‘Stories are narratives artfully ordered to do the serious work of entertainment, pleasing their listeners in the present, then carrying them into the future with something to think about’.Footnote29 Artfully ordered narratives, as Glassie phrases it, are found in chronicles and reports about nineteenth century football. The material used here links sport activities to educating and nurturing of young patriots expected to inherit leading roles in society. These texts present a specific picture of Sweden and Finland. At times, it seems that it was still the same country. The political realities of Finland being a part of Russia are artfully omitted. Further, the texts referring to the past (year books and jubilee books), as well as stories gathered through interviews, focus on certain elements creating a picture of modern IFK organizations, framing them in a socio-cultural context that is desired and useful. Glassie also discusses the importance of geographical locations: In other traditions, historians link unconnected events because they occupy the same age. Here it is place. Space joins past events to each other, and it unifies past and present in two ways: progressively and mythically.Footnote30 The geography of IFKs is narrated as crucial for their existence. The links to Stockholm and Swedish socio-cultural spheres are important elements in Finnish IFK identities. The sphere of Swedish-language influence in Finland encompasses mostly the west coast and the Åland Islands. It forms a fringe of the country, but culturally it represents (in common understanding at least) a set of privileges related to the position between Finnish and Swedish identity.Footnote31 IFKs’ stories in Finland share a common origin with their Swedish counterparts, but have a unique narrative about their own country and additionally about the individual clubs. The puzzle of the past in the present In February 1895, a student from Stockholm, Louis Zettersten, posted a question in the youth magazine Kamraten asking if there were other ‘comrades’ wishing to engage in various sports.Footnote32 The response was immense, triggering new local sport clubs, named IFK after some deliberations, around Sweden.Finland had an additional ‘birth moment’ as in 1897 Finnish readers of the magazine sent a question asking if they too could establish IFKs. The answer to that question, entitled ‘Till vårafinskakamrater’ (To our Finnish comrades),Footnote33 is an important element in the IFK mythology. It is treated with equal if not greater respect than the original question posted by Zettersten. The original Finnish request came from Lappvik (i.e. Lappohja), a small municipality in southern Finland, but the place seemed too small to attract followers. Shortly after, IFK Uleåborg and Helsingfors IFK were established. Later appeared IFK Viborg,Footnote34 Grankulla IFK, Åbo IFK, IFK Mariehamn, and Vasa IFK. The race to create new branches is visible on the pages of Kamraten. New IFK clubs were regularly announced in the magazine. Soon after, Kamraten started to report sport results and events from both countries, providing sections for Sweden and Finland.Footnote35 Finland, although not part of Sweden anymore, was still within its cultural sphere of influence. Swedish-speaking high schools (lyceums) were common in bigger cities, and they had access to magazines like Kamraten. IFKs in Finland sent reports about their activities, results and could in turn read about football as it slowly established itself in Sweden. For instance, two issues of Kamraten from 1903 published lectures for Swedish youths about football in England given by an English trainer called Donald E. Kidd.Footnote36 The multiple origin stories present rich material for revisiting the past.Footnote37 In the introduction of a book marking fifty years of Åbo IFK,Footnote38 it is stated that it was the first diverse Swedish-speaking sports club in the city. It created a space for ‘Swedish-speaking sportsmen’.Footnote39 It is stated twice that the impulse for creating it in 1908 came from the magazine Kamraten, referred to (erroneously) as IFK’s official magazine. A comment from William Fock, one of the men who established Åbo IFK, describes that it was Fock’s good friend, Aarne Eklund, who subscribed to the magazine and then passed it on to him and others who ‘read it with great interest’.Footnote40 Eklund asked IFK in Sweden for permission to use the name IFK. Many of the first hundred members came from the Swedish high school.Footnote41 As various IFKs retell their histories, recurring patterns become clear, not least in relation to their origin stories and the connections between the popular press and youth culture of the late nineteenth century. The students, located in a spatial-temporal context, represented youth enthusiasm and energy to create, connect, and unite across borders. This shows how an exchange between students created a lasting movement in (and between) Sweden and Finland. The nostalgia visible in the texts can be related to how Lowenthal interprets nostalgia as a guide to needs and wishes: The dreams and nightmares of revisiting the past are no less intrusive for being unlikely. They offer clues to what of the past we truly need and can accept or should avoid and reject. And they throw light on deep-seated stances towards tradition and change.Footnote42 Åbo IFK’s founders emerge as well-educated, sport-interested Swedish-speaking men who cared about the language context. Helsingfors IFK and IFK Mariehamn have clear origins in Swedish-speaking educational facilities in both cities. Grankulla IFK’s employee, Mats, offered a theory for their birth: Grankulla was at that time … well it was a summer house … city, for rich Helsingfors residents. […] And they had summer houses there and then, this area started to grow … So I would think that idea came from Helsingfors.Footnote43 During our conversation, Mats focused on current strategies and teams, saying that perhaps the club was not good at retelling its history. He mentioned an ambition to engage with history, because in 2025 the club will be celebrating its centenary. Longevity of sports clubs is often viewed as an achievement in itself.Footnote44 Henry Glassie states that ‘People achieve connection to the progressive past retrogressively through action in the built environment’.Footnote45 Using history as a kind of cultural capital happens often in clubs. Retracing the origin can help to frame a club’s position in the modern times. Grankulla IFK is a satellite in a bigger narrative, as Mats pointed out: ‘Our name tells a story about the history so it is important for the team to have such a name’.Footnote46 The involvement with the environment, the space, can create the link to the past.Footnote47 The origin story often involves a creator or founding father. As mentioned, Louis Zettersten figures in all publications considering IFK. Additionally, every IFK has its own father, adding to the richness of the myth. In a book from 1944 that celebrated IFK Mariehamn’s 25th anniversary, several ‘founding fathers’ are listed: a ‘father number 1’, a ‘number 2’ and even three ‘additional fathers’.Footnote48 Although the founder of the oldest surviving club, Helsingfors IFK, was George Doubitsky, he is not the most narrated character. He published texts in Kamraten, sent letters and results, and was an active member, but he is relatively overlooked when it comes to the IFK history pages. Herbert, who works for Helsingfors IFK, commented in an interview: Interviewer: But when it comes to Doubitsky … He’s a pretty enigmatic figure, I think. I cannot find much about him. Herbert: Not that there is meat on the bones … It’s just names and years. And he, Johnny Harlin, the first chairman, I think you know even less about. About the circumstances when he then became the first chairman. Interviewer: Yes, it was an anniversary book, I think it was … from the 40-50s so they visited his grave […]. Is it something one still does? Herbert: On the 120-year anniversary it was done. The chairman and a small delegation he picked … And then, to our shame (sighs heavily), we noticed that there is not even much left anymore. The family has, like … not done it … they stopped taking care of the grave.Footnote49 Herbert attributed the neglect to questions of time and money. Even though traces exist and the story is known, Doubitsky is not a subject of commemoration or attention. Keeping dead heroes alive is not easy and requires devotion and attention.Footnote50 Instead, Uno Westerholm is narrated as an important character. He was in the group that started Helsingfors IFK, but he was also a leading figure behind the Finnish Football Association and established FinsktIdrottsblad (Finnish Sport Magazine, published in Swedish) in 1904.Footnote51 IFKs in Finland arrange their histories through time and space. As Glassie commented on this kind of ordering, ‘Historical stories are fixed in time by more than numbers and sequence. When told, they are joined to facts beyond them, to history known but unordered’.Footnote52 Numbers and sequences are tools to carve out an identity around the clubs. IFKs are independent, yet united. My informants stressed that changing names or crests is unthinkable. Such a move would destroy their cultural heritage.Footnote53 Alex, a young Helsingfors IFK supporter, when asked about the history of the club, mentioned: History is important. Very important. The year, that it is 1897, is important. It is the original club, the first. And won many (Finnish) championships. And of course the history … that it was the higher class, you know, the Swedish-speaking class. Those who studied in the Swedish schools, so they did not study in Russian. And that was an important language … language difference. […] But of course now it is bilingual. So we are a bit like Bilbao, you know (laughs).Footnote54 The growing IFKs established football clubs among the educated elites and based on a linguistic minority. Alex talked about the class and language, marking them as historical and social categories that structured the club in its early days. Even though the founding year is the mythical origin year for the entire club, the football section developed later with the first club-level matches recorded in the early 1900s.Footnote55 The comparison with Bilbao is intriguing. Athletic Bilbao, established in 1898, officially uses two languages: Euskara (the Basque language) and Spanish. Alex’s narrative connected uniqueness with patterns seen throughout the football world. Several different elements of social identity – class, ethnicity, or language – can be used to structure a club’s history. ‘Bättre folk’ and the cultural capital of the past ‘Bättre folk’ (‘better people’) was a slogan used in 2018 when Helsingfors IFK’s ice hockey section launched a new supporter organization under that name (). It is used sporadically in Finland to refer to the Swedish-speaking minority there. In local Finnish folklore, the Finn-Swedesare sometimes referred to as the better class of people.Footnote56 Posters with a shield of Helsingfors IFK and the club’s colours appeared around Helsinki during the ‘Bättre folk’ campaign.Footnote57 Reactions were strong and plentiful. In the interview, Herbert mentioned it: Herbert: When you look at fans so it’s a cocky brand. It is Helsinki-centered, against the countryside, and a bit Finn-Swedish and a bit … (…) well it is self-ironic and has the slogan ‘Better People’. Interviewer: Yes, I have seen it. Herbert: It may sound better in Finn-Swedish. At least those from Stockholm had a hard time appreciating it (laughs). Herbert:You have to understand that self-irony. But it is a strong brand that divides opinions.Footnote58 According to the club’s marketing director, hardly anyone believes in the ‘old myth’ about ‘bättre folk’, but they knew it would draw attention and wanted to ‘give the myth new meaning’.Footnote59 To use the words of Glassie again: ‘History is not the past, but a map of the past drawn from a particular point of view to be useful to the modern traveller’.Footnote60 The expression connects to the idea that the Swedish-speaking minority is a privileged group.Footnote61 The phrase appeared in late nineteenth century, producing an ironic description of Finn-swedes, with an underlined accusation of mistreatment towards the Finnish-speaking majority.Footnote62 Even though the division of well-educated Swedish speakers and less fortunate Finnish speakers is a narrative of the past, it is used as an element that is known and understood, hence allowing for the navigation of the present, as Lowenthal puts it: The past renders the present recognizable. Its traces on the ground and in our minds let us make sense of current scenes. Without past experience, no sight or sound would mean anything; we perceive only what we are accustomed to. Features and patterns become such because we share their history.Footnote63 IFKs’ cultural capital would lead to different initiatives. The comrades in Sweden were clear about their striving for patriotic sentiments and a mission for patriotic upbringing.Footnote64 They arranged meetings with other IFKs, as well as balls, parties and excursions. Dancing seemed as important as results in cross-country skiing at the turn of the nineteenth century.Footnote65 Football faced competition from other sports, but gained a strong position in IFKs. The elitist feel around football was strengthened by the involvement of the Swedish aristocratic family of von Rosen. Count von Rosen sponsored a contest for the von Rosen trophy, an important football event in Sweden around 1900. He was also the editor-in-chief of NordisktIdrottslif, a sports journal that promoted football. NordisktIdrottslif provided regular reporting on football for Finnish readers. The Finnish IFK clubs were dominant when the first Finnish championships were played, starting from 1908. ÅboIFK won the title in 1910, 1920 and 1924. Helsingfors IFK won seven times in their history, in 1930, 1931, 1933, 1937, 1947, 1959, and 1961. Another IFK club from Finland’s west coast, Vasa IFK, won in 1944, 1946, and 1953.Footnote66 These clubs associated with the Swedish language were dominant and commonly reached the top positions of the football competitions. The common Swedish language meant direct access to the Scandinavian cultural sphere, defying the Russian administration, which tried to cut links with Stockholm. Finnish nationalism and patriotism was expressed in Kamraten and in NordisktIdrottslif. ‘Swedishness’ became an active element of opposing the Russian regime and striving for independence.Footnote67 The IFK movement, with direct links to Swedish youths and access to that cultural capital, could communicate different agendas through sports like football. Uno Westerholm (of Helsingfors IFK) represented Finland during the FIFA congress in 1912.Footnote68 In a book commemorating 100 years of Helsingfors IFK there is a story from 1899: Westerholm, arranged and advertised in KamratenFootnote69 a summer meeting at Raseborg Castle ruins that attracted around 200 Finnish IFK members. A dramatic situation occurred when Russian officials arrived. The place was swiftly stripped of flags and banners, although these were later restored once the Russians disappeared. The meeting continued with singing of Vårt land,Footnote70 which later became Finland’s national anthem.Footnote71 The IFK movement could at times be transformed into pockets of political resistance. When asked about the reason for establishing IFK, Herbert connected the cultural and linguistic struggles with the youth movement of that period: It was that umbilical cord to the western world. During the period of Russification. Then of course, from a different perspective so this school youth, still 15–16-year-old boys who founded it, so it was such a generational issue as well.Footnote72 IFKs past and present have always offered a variety of sports, and ice hockey has had a strong position in Finnish sports for decades, but football has remained a crucial component, attracting many members in present-day clubs.Footnote73 Ulf, who works for IFK Mariehamn, connected football’s position to Åland’s Swedish links: [H]ockey is quite strong in many places. [But] here it is football that is deliberately strongest. And I think it has to do with the fact that we have strong ties to Sweden. And there, football is very strong. And big. And that we have taken a lot for the Swedish style and culture and … and football has always been big on Åland. […] I think it has to do with this Swedish … Swedish connection quite simply.Footnote74 Åbo IFK could claim football success already in 1910, the club won the Finnish championship, and continued to play in the finals in 1911, 1913, 1915, 1916, and 1917.Footnote75 Helsingfors IFK claimed the title as champions of Finland seven times between 1930 and 1961.Footnote76 The ‘golden era’, which many old clubs refer to and construct their stories with,Footnote77 helps sustain their image and promote their historical importance. As the IFKs in Finland predate the state itself, their glories often belong to the past, which leads to nostalgia.Footnote78 IFK Mariehamn presents a different narrative. When its representatives are asked about an important historical event, 2016 stands out. In 2016 the club won the Finnish league for the first time. The year provided a record crowd attendance, a historical national win and even entry to the qualification rounds of the European Champions League. As Björn, an IFK Mariehamn supporter, expressed it: After the Finnish Championship gold in 2016, it is so … . Plus the cup, that we have won the cup. After you achieve such successes […] You have experienced the best already so that … it (IFK) suffers a bit from it already. I think. It succeeded in the impossible, to win the Finnish league. The team was good, good players, good balance between Ålanders and foreign players, etc … Oh, that was so great.Footnote79 The success was the culmination of decades of support, hard work and devotion. All the emotional investment in the club paid off. IFK Mariehamn gave people a historic achievement to be proud of and connect to. IFK Mariehamn’s past has just happened, in a sense. This relates to Glassie’s remark that football clubs have a rudimentary function for small communities, namely to connect past, present and future: ‘Football teams are established so future men will be able to assemble and save future hay’.Footnote80 This quote indicates that the sustainability of a small community, such as Mariehamn, may be guaranteed by playing sports together. More generally, as Finland struggled through pre-independence and tried to negotiate its position, organizations like IFK offered a place to gather, discuss and unite. The Swedish language was an additional component in this mix. Team sports, like football, proved fruitful in building connections and establishing networks that connected to other contexts in society. Local patriotism and identity were stressed by my informants. Björn remarked that IFK Mariehamn was like a national team for a small island nation, stretching its meaning beyond local football. Their biggest achievement was recently experienced and a sense of fulfilment carries the club towards the future. Olympic team without a country Something often referred to by the IFK clubs in Finland is the Finnish football team’s participation in the Olympic Games before the country itself gained independence. During the Stockholm Olympic Games in 1912, Finland was a part of Russia, but the young Football Association received permission to represent Finland without showing national colours.Footnote81 It was unclear until the last minute whether the team would be allowed to participate. Of the eleven football teams that participated in Stockholm, Finland had the smallest squad of only 15 players.Footnote82 Herbert referenced the games: But the Stockholm Olympics must be remembered. You may have heard that anecdote … yes it is not an anecdote. But like it was part of the Tsarist Russia … but Finland played with its own team, and … then did not have its own flag, nothing, and the Finnish national team … if you can call it that … so half were IFKmembers and played in IFK shirts, with only the star covered by the Finnish coat of arms.Footnote83 The Olympic team consisted of players from just three teams: the Finnish-language Helsingin Jalkapalloklubi, and the Swedish-language Kronohagens Idrottsförening and Helsingfors IFK. Five players from Helsingfors IFK’s ranks were chosen for the national squad.Footnote84 Several of them became crucial for the development of football in Finland.Footnote85 A colourful character who played both at the Olympic Games and in two of the Finnish IFKs – Helsingfors IFK and IFK Viborg – was Algoth Niska. Born in the city of ViborgFootnote86 and belonging to the Swedish-speaking minority, Niska was a good football player who later became a legendary smuggler. He smuggled alcohol during Finland’s prohibition period that began in 1919. He rescued Jews during World War II, smuggling around 150 people. He also wrote an autobiography.Footnote87 Niska has become a folk hero representing Finland’s turbulent twentieth century history. His folk hero status may be considered in light of Glassie’s comments on the use of certain characters in narratives: ‘Real people are used in story to symbolize abstract principles. They are formed in words, set in action, to enable philosophical discourse’.Footnote88 Niska’s sporting achievements are lifted as well, making him a complex figure and an interesting protagonist in stories.Footnote89 In a sense, he symbolizes a perfect comrade, embodying the characteristics of stamina, friendship, and skill. As Finland did not have a national football kit for the Olympics, red football shirts from Helsingfors IFK were adopted, with a yellow lion replacing the star that symbolizes IFK.Footnote90 Finland finished fourth, which remains their best achievement in an international competition. The national team’s victory over Russia was especially crucial and had ‘big psychological meaning’ for the team and the country.Footnote91 In the official report from the Olympic Games in Stockholm,Footnote92 a brief statement from the Russia–Finland game reads: The early hour at which this match was played, and the interesting events which were to come off later on in the day, had the result that there were only a couple of hundred spectators present when the referee blew the whistle for the start. It could be seen from the first that the two teams knew each other’s “points” very well and, although they were the least bit stiff after the fatiguing match against Italy, the Finns played all the time as if they knew that they would win. […]No complaint could be made as to the pace of the play, which was very fast the whole of the time — the remarkable pace of the Russian players contributing not least to this — but there is not SO much to say as regards the science and combination shown. A couple of first-class Swedish clubs could have shown better form.Footnote93 Finland’s involvement in the Olympic Games before independence was largely due to the enthusiasm of school youngsters who embraced ideas of sport, turned it into associations and used them for strengthening and spreading other narratives present in society. IFK is not the only force that made Finland appear on the international football arena, but it certainly had a big impact. Russia tried to stop the Finnish team altogether and protested against their marching music, emblems and any other signs of Finnish nationalism. When it was finally allowed to participate, the Finland team was banned from using its flag if it received medals, and was instructed to use Russia’s flag instead.Footnote94 The president and founder of the International Olympic Committee, Pierre de Coubertin, was against this compromise and commented that Russia’s demand was motivated purely by its desire to see its own flag on proud display.Footnote95 After the match between Finland and Russia, two Russians flags were waving, with one additionally decorated with the words: ‘Finland won’.Footnote96 With nine medals won (while Russia won none), it was a success story for Finland, and its diplomatic efforts during the Olympic Games were regarded by Russia as political. Modern re-telling of these events present them as a step towards national identity, a statement of independence from Russia and a leap in the process that helped to shape a new, independent country. Those, such as Uno Westerholm, who played and held leading positions in IFKs during that time used their international contacts and built networks. My informants had no doubts that the IFK club network was an important factor in building and sustaining the Finnish national football team. Krista commented on the successful players from ÅboIFK: Because we had many, many national players then and during this period … so … it says in our history that we nurtured … during a 20-year period, 1914 to 1934, we had almost an entire opening team. And […] we had many who played in the national team.Footnote97 Krista named Charles Stormbom, Börje Root and Einar Grannas as some of the prominent players. The claim that Åbo IFK provided an entire national team is a bold one, but a look into the statistics shows that it is not entirely true.Footnote98 Many of Finland’s national team players between 1911 and the 1930s came from IFK clubs and, at some matches (for example in the early 1930s), IFKs’ members clearly dominated the Finnish squad. At times, though, many footballers came from Helsinki’s predominantly Finnish-speaking club Helsingin Jalkapalloklubi (est. 1907).Footnote99 Yet, the importance and position of the IFK clubs is clear. The existence of IFK was connected to the Swedish cultural sphere, and their growth was possible because of the language connection. They helped, in turn, to nurture Finnish football. The order of the four-pointed star One additional organization within IFK was formed in 1928. Den Fyruddiga Stjärnans Orden (The Order of the Four-Pointed star or DFS) was, according to the organization itself, established: [B]y the same men who started the IFKmovement, so that IFK members, after their active time, would be given the opportunity to meet and socialize with other older IFK members […] within and outside their own association.Footnote100 The organization is still active, with Swedish and Finnish members. Its ideology is built on the symbol of IFK, a blue four-pointed star on a white background. The four points symbolize persistence, skill, power and friendship. The DFS writes further on its web page: It all culminates in IFKKAMRATERNA, whose members with IFK’s guiding star as a symbol must show PERSISTENCE through continuous training, practice their SKILLS and inherent aptitudes for certain sports and gather the POWER, strength and condition required for good sports performance. All this must be done in FRIENDLY forms.Footnote101 Herbert highlighted the existence and historical significance of the DFS: I am … right … the sport romantic that goes back to the Olympic ideal, like … The Order of the Four-Pointed Star. It’s also something I’ve been involved in. Have you … looked at it? […] Which is … really … the parent association’s first comrades’ organization. So retired athletes who, who were connected to the club and the business. The basic values … as you see the purpose here so it is traditions, sports, ethical ideals.Footnote102 Ulf, representing IFK Mariehamn, also talked about the DSF when we discussed connections to other IFKs and cooperation: We are separate units but there is an IFK club like this … IFK order, called Den Fyruddiga Stjärnans Orden. It is abbreviated DFS for all IFK clubs, they have had from the beginning, such a club brand … a star that is four-pointed. If you look at IFKNorrköping’sgear, they have that star. So there is such an IFK association … and it is for … one is actually run by old IFK members. (…).I am actually involved in arranging parties, for example here in Mariehamn. So there is an exchange with, for example, HelsingforsIFK and IFK Stockholm. So it’s a little fun. […] It’s still alive … and here in Mariehamn we meet twice and there are old … old IFK members and it is quite a lot of people who come. Then we have invited people from Stockholm and Helsingfors.Footnote103 The order is organized in lodges, with a ‘grand master’. The main lodge is in Stockholm, but two are in Finland, in Helsingfors and in Mariehamn. Krista, who works for Åbo IFK, knew about the DFS but had no immediate interest in it.Footnote104 One has to be a member in one of IFKs to be admitted to the DFS. The organization operates like any other club, and its historical value is often stressed. The elements of IFK that might have been lost in the whirlpool of history have been transferred to the DFS for safekeeping. Thus, IFK can be a rather anonymous sporting activity, or acquire different flavours from their surroundings and specific contexts, as the philosophical understanding of ‘what it is to be IFK’ can be found somewhere else. This is of course not a strict distinction. However, it highlights another layer of communication developed through IFK. Concluding remarks ‘The saga of IFK’Footnote105 is also a saga of football development in Finland and of the cultural capital that could be used to build its independence and its nationality. Based on its former ‘mother-country’ – Sweden – the IFK movement was able to import different elements from the emerging sport movement and youth culture, from schools that prepared the next generation’s educated classes that could be established in Finland because of cultural, historical and geographical proximity.Footnote106 When browsing through the sporting achievements in Kamraten and NordisktIdrottslif, Sweden and Finland merge together, sharing contests, competitions, and excursions, and communicating through letters and accounts from young sport enthusiasts. IFKs evolved and adapted to the changing socio-cultural climate. My informants looked at their history as a resource, a reason for their club’s existence, and a point of pride. History marks both continuation and change.Henry Glassie connected the two elements in his analysis of a changing community and stated that change is ‘the normal state of human affairs. History, like the weather, is an inescapable condition. It must be watched so life can be adjusted to its power’.Footnote107 The IFK clubs discussed here are active and visible. They provide their members with a package of cultural capital that make the engagement meaningful. Historical upheavals and political and ideological battles are visible through the IFK clubs’ histories. Further, the movement’s Swedish heritage means that the clubs can claim a forefront in the shaping of Finland’s emerging identity. Krista from Åbo IFK, when asked about the importance of being connected to the organization, replied: ‘Once a comrade, always a comrade’. The phrase is well-known and used in the IFK context. In her narrative, the social was blended with the will to stay strong and healthy, but also to build connections that would remain for life. The phrase ‘Once a comrade, always a comrade’ has been popular throughout the last 100 years. For example, a book commemorating 30 years of Helsingfors IFK ends its introduction with those words. United around a seemingly trivial activity, as sports in general and football in particular, the IFKs could be viewed as a process, as a movement through times and spaces, that provided Finland with elements that became important for its national identity. Disclosure statement No potential conflict of interest was reported by the author(s). Notes 1. Herd, ’Fotboll i Finland på svenska’. 2. IFK Central ogranization; IFK’s Historik, http://www.ifkcs.org/historik/historik.php (accessed 20 September 2021); Andersson, Kung fotboll, 88–97; 106–107. 3. IFK Central ogranization; IFK’s Historik, http://www.ifkcs.org/historik/historik.php (accessed 20 September 2021). 4. Tommila and Salokangas, Tidningar för alla. 5. Oriard, Reading Football, xix. 6. Björkman, Idrottsföreningen Kamraterna r.f. 100 år för Finlands idrott, 18. 7. Paasivirta, Finland och de Olympiska Spelen i Stockholm. 8. ‘IFK Helsingfors’, Kamraten, March 1898, no. 6: 92–93, Lund University Library Archive. Lund, Sweden. 9. Wolf-Knuts. ‘Coping Mechanisms among the Finland-Swedes’. 10. Suomen jalkapallon historia, https://www.urheilunkirjo.com/suomen-futishistoria.html (accessed 10 May 2021). 11. Herd, ‘We Can Make New History Here’; Brabazon, Playing on the Periphery; Bromberger, ‘Football as World-view and as Ritual’. 12. Lowenthal, The Past Is a Foreign Country. Revisited, 27. 13. Lanfranchi, ‘Exporting Football’. 14. Swedish is an official language in Finland alongside Finnish. 15. Davies, Reflexive Ethnography; Malinowski, Coral Gardens and Their Magic; Geertz, Local Knowledge. 16. This article is part of a postdoctoral research project financed by the Swedish Literature Society (SLS). 17. The interviews were conducted in Swedish and translated to English for the purpose of this article. The interviews will be archived at the Swedish Literature Society’s archive in Helsingfors, Finland. 18. Palme, Några anteckningar ur de svenska barntidningarnas historia; Svensson, Barn-vänner och skolkamrater. 19. Andersson, Spela fotboll bondjävlar!, 31–32. 20. Oriard, Reading Football; King Football. 21. Landgrén, ‘Den finländska tidningspressen som samhällsspegel under 1900-talet’, 228. 22. Lundström, ’En värld i rubriker och bilder (1897–1919)’, 39–40. 23. Lowenthal, The Past Is a Foreign Country. Revisited; Glassie, Passing the Time in Ballymenone. 24. Lowenthal, The Past Is a Foreign Country. Revisited, 378. 25. Interview with Herbert, Zoom call, 7 February 2020. 26. Herd, ‘We Can Make New History Here’; Andersson ‘Den döende bandyn?’. 27. Ibid., 52. 28. Isacson and Olausson, ‘Den enskilda arkiven och framtiden’, 174. 29. Glassie, Passing the Time in Ballymenone, 40. 30. Ibid., 201. 31. Wolf-Kunts, ‘Coping Mechanisms among the Finland-Swedes’; Klinkmann, ‘Om finlandssvenska identiteter, intersektioner och hanteringsstrategier’; Klinkmann, ‘“Svenska talande bättre folk” – mellan ironi, stereotyper och humor’. 32. ‘Upprop’, Kamraten, February 1895, no. 3, 48, Lund University Library Archive. Lund, Sweden. 33. ‘Till våra finska kamrater!’, Kamraten, August 1897, no. 16, 256, Lund University Library Archive, Lund, Sweden. 34. After World War II the city of Viborg ended up in the territory of the Soviet Union. 35. For example, ‘IFK Sverige/Finland’, Kamraten, June 1898, no. 10: 159–160, Lund University Library Archive, Lund, Sweden. 36. ‘Idrott och lekar i Englands skolor’, Kamraten, April 1903, no. 8, 117, Lund University Library Archive. Lund, Sweden.; Kamraten 1903, no. 11, 169–170. 37. Lowenthal, The Past Is the Foreign Country. Revisited, 56. 38. Åbo (Turku in Finnish) was the country’s capital until 1812 when the Russian administration decided to move it to Helsinki/Helsingfors to put it further away from Sweden. 39. Åbo IFK 50 år, Lund University Library Archive, Lund: Sweden, 4. 40. Ibid.,10. 41. Ibid., 4. 42. Lowenthal, The Past Is the Foreign Country. Revisited, 79. 43. Interview with Mats, Zoom call, 16 March 2021. 44. Herd, ‘We Can Make New History Here’, 99–133. 45. Glassie, Passing the Time in Ballymenone, 201. 46. Interview with Mats. 47. Glassie, Passing the Time in Ballymenone, 201. 48. Karlsson and Ramström, Idrottsföreningen Kamraterna r.f. Mariehamn 25 år 1919–1944, 3–5. 49. Interview with Herbert. 50. See Herd, ‘Our Foreign Hero’. 51. Lautela and Sjöblom, Vallanpitäjät, 334–335. 52. Glassie, Passing the Time in Ballymenone, 623. 53. Herd, ‘We Can make New History Here’,100–108. 54. Interview with Alex, Zoom call, August 22, 2019. 55. Sjöblom, Alkupotkut, 19–40. 56. Klinkmann, ‘“Svenska talande bättre folk” – mellan ironi, stereotyper och humor’. 57. ‘HIFK: s supportrar är “Bättre folk” – namnet på lagets nya supporterförening upprör på sociala medier’, 28 August 2018, https://svenska.yle.fi/artikel/2018/08/28/hifks-supportrar-ar-battre-folk-namnet-pa-lagets-nya-supporterforening-uppror-pa (accessed 26 January 2020). 58. Interview with Herbert. 59. ‘HIFK: s supportrar är “Bättre folk”’. 60. Glassie, Passing the Time in Ballymenone, 621. 61. Klinkmann, ’Finlandssvenskarna och humorns gränser’, 118. 62. Ibid., 119. 63. Lowenthal, The Past Is the Foreign Country. Revisited, 86. 64. For example, ‘Hvad kunna vi unga göra för vårt fosterland’, Kamraten, May 1895, no. 9, 134, Lund University Library Archive, Lund, Sweden. 65. For example, ‘NågraintygfrånI.F.K. årsbal’, Kamraten, March 1899, no. 5, 75–76, Lund University Library Archive, Lund, Sweden; ‘IFK femårsfesti Stockholm’, Kamraten, March 1900, no. 6 & no. 7, Lund University Library Archive, Lund, Sweden. 66. Statistics from http://www.rsssf.com/tablesf/finhist.html 67. One needs to keep in mind the Fennomania of the nineteenth century, including the promotion of Finnish language and culture and the gradual disregard of Swedish that came with it. Some of the key cultural figures, crucial for literature and arts, changed their Swedish surnames to Finnish to associate more strongly with Finland. 68. Jouni Lavikainen, 2021, ‘Punaiset leijonat Tukholmassa. Suomen jalkapallomaajoukkue Tukholman Olympialaisissa 1912’, https://www.urheilumuseo.fi/punaiset-leijonat-tukholmassa-suomen-jalkapallomaajoukkue-tukholman-olympialaisissa-1912/ (accessed 25 April 2021). 69. ‘Sommarens kamratmöte i Finland’, Kamraten, June 1899, no. 11, 166–167, Lund University Library Archive, Lund, Sweden. 70. Vårt land is the original Swedish title of the Finnish national anthem, which is called Maamme in Finnish.The words were written by Johan Ludvig Runeberg. 71. Björkman, Idrottsföreningen Kamraterna r.f. 100 år för Finlands idrott, 15. 72. Interview with Herbert. 73. Backman, Ishockeyns amerikanisering. 74. Interview with Ulf, Zoom call, 12 March 2021. 75. Åbo IFK 50 år, 6. 76. Björkman, Idrottsföreningen Kamraterna r.f. Helsingfors 1897–1987, 344. 77. See Herd, Passing the Time in Ballymenone. 78. Lowenthal, The Past Is the Foreign Country. Revisited, 36–37. 79. Interview with Björn, Zoom call, 8 March 2021. 80. Glassie, Passing the Time in Ballymenone, 293. 81. Paasivirta, Finland och de Olympiska Spelen i Stockholm, 24–42. 82. Lavikainen, ’Punaiset leijonat Tukholmassa’. 83. Interview with Herbert. 84. These were Bror Wiberg, Jarl Öhman, Uno Lundbäck, Gösta Löfgren, and Knut Lund. 85. Lautela et.al., ‘Vuosikymmenten tähdet’, 116; Tikander, ‘Arkea ja juhlaa vuonna 1927’, 43; Kanerva, ‘Mustapukuisista miehistä värikkäiksi viheltäjäksi’, 290. 86. Viipuri in Finnish, now known as Vyborg in the Russian Federation. 87. Niska, Mina Äventyr. 88. Glassie, Passing the Time in Ballymenone, 228. 89. Andersson, ‘Illegal entrepreneurs’; Kosell & Larsson, ‘Organized Crime the Nordic Way’; Lundin & Nilsson, Spritsmuggling på Östersjön. 90. Lavikainen, ‘Punaiset leijonat Tukholmassa’. 91. G. Wallén, ‘OS 1912’, Huvudstadsbladet, 8 July 2012, https://www.pressreader.com/finland/hufvudstadsbladet/20120708/281874410509840?fbclid=IwAR2jIoIPMwHfhz8yw1UIYegyG8J1uVIx3j6G5lzL7gWNfAd92HCrdQCTb34, (accessed 9 September 2021), 348. 92. Available at https://digital.la84.org/digital/collection/p17103coll8/id/10243 93. The Olympic Games of Stockholm Official Report, 487. 94. Paasivirta, Finland och de Olympiska Spelen i Stockholm. 95. Wallén, ‘OS 1912’. 96. Paasivirta, Finland och de Olympiska Spelen i Stockholm; Wallén, ’OS 1912’. 97. Interview with Krista, Zoom call, 18 March 2021. 98. Lautela et.al., ’Tilastot’, 365–378. 99. Ibid., 365. 100. Den Fyruddiga Stjärnans Orden – D.F.S., https://dfs-orden.se/om-d-f-s/ (accessed 16 August 2021). 101. Ibid. 102. Interview with Herbert. 103. Interview with Ulf. 104. Interview with Krista, 18 March 2021. 105. Björkman, Idrottsföreningen Kamraterna r.f. 100 år för Finlands idrott, 7. 106. Glassie, Passing the Time in Ballymenone, 405. 107. Ibid., 500. Bibliography - Andersson, H. “Illegal Entrepreneurs: A Comparative Study of the Liquor Trade in Stockholm and New Orleans 1920–1940.” Journal of Scandinavian Studies in Criminology and Crime Prevention. 3. 2002. 114–134. 10.1080/14043850310013142 .accessed May 15, 2021). 2. - Andersson, T. Spela fotboll bondjävlar! En studie av svensk klubbkultur och lokal identitet från 1950 till 2000-talet. Del 1. Helsingborg, Landskrona, Malmö, Listerlandet, Växjö och Göteborg. Stockholm: Brutus Östlings Bokförlag Symposion, 2011. - Andersson, T. Kung Fotboll. Den svenska fotbollens kulturhistoria från 1800-talets slut till 1950. Malmö: Arx Förlag, 2014. - Andersson, T. Den döende bandyn? En säregen historia om svensk natur, nationalism och nostalgi. Malmö: Arx Förlag, 2019. - And, T.P., and R. Salokangas. Tidningar för alla. Den finländska pressens historia. Göteborg: NordikomGötebors Universitet, 2000. - Backman, J. Ishockeyns amerikanisering: En studie av svensk och finsk elitishockey. Malmö: Malmö Studies in Sport Sciences, 2018. - Björkman, I. Idrottsföreningen Kamraterna r.f. Helsingfors 1897–1987. Hangö: : Hangö Tryckeri AB, 1991. - Björkman, I. Idrottsföreningen Kamraterna r.f. 100 år för Finlands idrott.Helsingfors: Helsingfors IFK. Sport Museum Archive (Urheilumuseo). Finland: Helsingfors, 1997. - Brabazon, T. Playing on the Periphery. Sport, Identity and Memory. London and New York: Routledge, 2006. - Bromberger, C. “Football as World-view and as Ritual.” French Cultural Studies. 6. 1995. 293–311. 10.1177/095715589500601803 .accessed January 7, 2021). 18. - Davies, C.A. Reflexive Ethnography. A Guide to Researching Selves and Others. Oxon and New York: Routledge, 2008. - Edquist, S. “Den enskilda arkiven i historisk kontext.” in Enskilda Arkiv, ed. C. Hagström and A. Ketola, 15–30. Lund: Studentlitteratur AB, 2018. - Geertz, C. Local Knowledge: Further Essays in Interpretative Anthropology. New York: Basic Books, 1983. - Glassie, H. Passing the Time in Ballymenone. Culture and History of an Ulster Community. Philadelphia: University of Pennsylvania Press, 1982. - Herd, K. “We Can Make New History Here”. Rituals of Producing History in Swedish Football Clubs. Lund: Lund Studies in Arts and Cultural Sciences, 2018. - Herd, K. “Our Foreign Hero. A Croatian Goalkeeper and His Swedish Death.” in EthnologiaFennica17, ed. S. Saramo, E. Koskinen-Koivisto, and H. Snellman, 139–156. Helsinki: SKS, 2019. - Herd, K. “Fotboll i Finland på svenska. Berättelser från början av 1900-talet.” Idrott, Historia & Samhället, ed. Daniel, Alsarve, Örebro: Svenska idrottshistoriska föreningen, 2021, 101–121. - Isacson, M., and P.P. Olausson Den. “enskilda arkiven och framtiden.” in Enskilda Arkiv, ed. C. Hagström and A. Ketola, 173–184. Lund: Studentlitteratur AB, 2018. - Kanerva, J. “Mustapukuisista miehistä värikkäiksi viheltäjäksi.” in Rakas jalkapallo, Sata vuotta suomalaista jalkapalloa, ed. Y. Lautela, et al. 289–295. Kustannusosakeyhtiö Teos: Helsingfors, 2007. - Karlsson, F., and P.-O. Ramström. Idrottsföreningen Kamraterna r.f. Mariehamn 25 år 1919–1944. IFK Mariehamn: Sport Museum Archive (Urheilumuseo), Helsingfors, Finland. Mariehamn, 1944. - Klinkmann, S.-E. “Finlandssvenskarna och humorns gränser.” in Skratt som fastnar: Kulturella perspektiv på skratt och humor, ed. L.-E. Jönsson and F. Nilsson, 117–138. Lund: Lund University, 2014. - Klinkmann, S.-E. “Om finlandssvenska identiteter, intersektioner och hanteringsstrategier.” in Föreställda finlandssvenskheter: Intersektionella perspektiv på det svenska i Finland, ed. S.-E. Klinkmann, B. Henriksson, and A. Häger, 29–56. Helsingfors: SLS, 2017a. - Klinkmann, S.-E. “Svenska talande bättre folk” – Mellan ironi, stereotyper och humor.” in Föreställda finlandssvenskheter: Intersektionella perspektiv på det svenska i Finland, ed. S.-E. Klinkmann, B. Henriksson, and A. Häger, 301–328. Helsingfors: SLS, 2017b. - Korsell, L., and P. Larsson. “Organized Crime the Nordic Way.” Crime and Justice in Scandinavia 40, no. 1 (2011): 519–554. doi:10.1086/660917. - Landgrén, L.-F. “Den finländska tidningspressen som samhällsspegel under 1900-talet.” Historisk Tidskrift för Finland 102, no. 2 (2017): 286–294. https://journal.fi/htf/article/view/66925 (accessed May 14, 2021). - Lanfranchi, P. “Exporting Football: Notes on the Development of Football in Europe.” In Games without Frontiers. Football, Identity and Modernity, ed. R. Giullianotti and J. Williams. Brookfield and Aldershot: Ashgate Publishing Limited, 1994, 23–46. - Lautela, Y., “Vuosikymmenten tähdet.” Rakas jalkapallo, Sata vuotta suomalaista jalkapalloa, ed. Y. Lautela, Göran, Wallén. Helsingfors: Kustannusosakeyhtiö Teos, 2007a, 105–145. - Lautela, Y., et al. Tilastot Rakas jalkapallo, Sata vuotta suomalaista jalkapalloa ed. Y. Lautela. Helsingfors (Helsinki): Kustannusosakeyhtiö Teos, 2007b, 365–435. - Lautel, Y., and K. Sjöblom. “VVallanpitäjät.” in Rakas jalkapallo, Sata vuotta suomalaista jalkapalloa, ed. Y. Lautela, et al. 329–342. Helsingfors: Kustannusosakeyhtiö Teos, 2007. - Lowenthal, D. The past Is a Foreign Country. Revisited. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2015. - Lundin, J., and F. Nilsson. Spritsmuggling på Östersjön: En kulturhistorisk studie av nätverk i tillblivelse. Göteborg: Makadam Förlag, 2015. - Lundström, G. “En värld i rubriker och bilder (1897–1919).” Den svenska pressens historia III Det moderna Sveriges spegel (1897-1945), ed. K.E. Gustafsson, P. Rydén, and S. EkerlidsFörlag. Stockholm: Ekerlids Förlag, 2001, 22–140. - Malinowski, B. Coral Gardens and Their Magic I & II.George Allen & Unwin United. London: Allen & Unwind, 1935. - Niska, A. Mina Äventyr. Helsingfors (Helsinki): Söderströms, 1931. - Oriard, M. Reading Football. How the Popular Press Created an American Spectacle. Chapel Hill and London: The University of North Carolina Press, 1993. - Oriard, M. King Football: Sport and Spectacle in the Golden Age of Radio and Newsreels, Movies and Magazines, the Weekly and the Daily Press. Chapel Hill: University of North Carolina Press, 2001. - Paasivirta, J. Finland och de Olympiska Spelen i Stockholm. Diplomatin bakom kulisserna. Ekenäs: Ekenäs Tryckeri Aktiebolags Förlag, 1963. - Palme, S.U. Några anteckningar ur de svenska barntidningarnas historia. Stockholm: Åhlén& Åkerlund, 1963. - Sjöblom, K. “Alkupotkut.” in Rakas jalkapallo, Sata vuotta suomalaista jalkapalloa, ed. Y. Lautela, Göran, Wallén. (Helsingfors: Kustannusosakeyhtiö Teos, 2007. 19–39. - Svensson, S. Barn-vänner och skolkamrater. Svenska barn- och ungdomstidningar 1766–1900 sedda mot en internationell bakgrund. Stockholm: Carlsson Bokförlag, 2018. - Tikander, V. “Arkea ja juhlaa vuonna 1927.” in Rakas jalkapallo, Sata vuotta suomalaista jalkapalloa, ed. Y. Lautela, et al. 41–53. Kustannusosakeyhtiö Teos: Helsingfors, 2007. - Wolf-Knuts, U. “Den mångbottnade identiteten. I Finlandssvensk identitet och kultur.” in Forskningsprojektet “Finlandssvenska kulturindikatorer” Rapport 5, ed. K. Stålberg, 1–24. Åbo: Åbo Akademi, 1995. - Wolf-Knuts, U. “Coping Mechanisms among the Finland-Swedes.” Folklore. 124. 2013. 15–27. 10.1080/0015587X.2013.722304 .accessed May 12, 2021). 1.
