=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Thermal pool complex Ōpuke celebrates a challenging but successful first year | RNZ News]
Nov 26, 2022 · More than 100,000 people have flocked to Methven's Ōpuke Thermal Pools and Spa complex since it opened in November 2021.
URL: https://www.rnz.co.nz/news/ldr/479547/thermal-pool-complex-opuke-celebrates-a-challenging-but-successful-first-year

['Outstanding' new hot pool complex opens in Mid-Canterbury]
Nov 24, 2021 — Methven's Opuke Thermal Pools and Day Spa was officially opened on Wednesday by community leaders and Regional Economic Development and Tourism Minister Stuart ...
URL: https://www.stuff.co.nz/national/politics/local-democracy-reporting/300462505/outstanding-new-hot-pool-complex-opens-in-midcanterbury

[Bumper summer for Methven hot pools | Star News]
Jan 29, 2025 · Ōpuke Thermal Pools and Spa general manager Matt Turner said visitor numbers to their pools are up significantly, easily heading for a record January figure. The $15 million Methven hot pools, which opened in 2021, had over 100,000 visits in the first year.
URL: https://www.odt.co.nz/star-news/star-districts/bumper-summer-methven-hot-pools

[12 Months of the Year - timeanddate.com]
Our current Gregorian calendar and its predecessor, the Julian calendar, both have 12 months. However, the month names we use today are derived from the Roman calendar, which initially had only 10 months, with the calendar year starting in March (Martius).
URL: https://www.timeanddate.com/calendar/months/

[Hot pools, stout and a Topp | Star News]
Mar 29, 2022 — I started at Methven's newest attraction, Opuke Thermal Pools and Spa, opened in November last year. Set in grounds planted with native ...
URL: https://www.odt.co.nz/star-news/star-lifestyle/star-travel/hot-pools-stout-and-topp


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Thermal pool complex Ōpuke celebrates a challenging but successful first year | RNZ News] ---
More than 100,000 people have visited Methven's Ōpuke Thermal Pools and Spa complex in its first year in business. The $15 million facility was originally slated to open at the end of 2020, but Covid-19-related delays and supply chain issues meant that was pushed back until November 2021. Ōpuke director James McKenzie said despite several challenges, including border closures and the Omicron wave hitting just after the complex opened, it had been a successful year. "Omicron had an immediate and unfavourable impact on visitation during February and March, and then a protracted impact on staffing, which we only started to get on top of towards the end of winter. "Given these circumstances, we're very pleased to end up just 10 percent shy of our target visitation for the first year, and also [to] achieve such high levels of service despite our initial staff issues." From April to October, patronage was "reassuringly consistent", with the pools booked out most weekends, McKenzie said. Capacity limits and set session times were also introduced to avoid overcrowding impacting the visitor experience, he added. In its first year, McKenzie said nearly 100,000 extra visitors had stopped off in Methven to visit the facility. "Many have stayed for the night in local accommodation, headed out for dinner, shopped and tried out some of the many other great experiences on offer in our area." So far, Cantabrians had made up the bulk of the visitors, he said. However there had been a steady increase in people from further afield - including international visitors - as Christchurch Airport continued to bring on more capacity, he said. Ōpuke received government assistance in the form of $7.5 million of loan funding from the Provincial Growth Fund (PGF), which McKenzie said covered about 40 percent of the complex's total construction and establishment costs. "We are paying interest on this facility and repayments are due to commence in early 2025 but there is flexibility for us to start this earlier." Without the PGF money, McKenzie said it was unlikely the project would have gone ahead and the site would still be a grassed paddock. As a PGF project, it was achieving its mandate of stimulating the local economy by attracting more visitors to the town - all year round - and creating employment opportunities. Ōpuke currently employed around 50 people in a range of casual, part-time and full-time positions, McKenzie said, with the majority being from either Ashburton or Methven. The facility aims to be carbon-neutral and has a solar field of almost 500 solar thermal collectors - occupying approximately a quarter of the site -that serves as the pools' primary water heating system. "Our solar thermal heating system is the first of its kind in New Zealand and now a proven success - keeping the pools toasty warm, even on the shortest day of the year, which has been really neat to see," McKenzie said. Tourism town, all year round Methven has been a winter tourism destination since Mt Hutt opened in 1973. But the flow-on effects of Ōpuke opening mean the tourism season has expanded, with visitors now coming all year round, and local businesses are benefiting. One example is Ski Time: its owner-operators Peter and Susanne Wood have decided to stay open over the Christmas and New Year period for the first time in more than 35 years. "Methven is not just a winter destination any more," Susanne said. "With the Ōpuke hot pools, fantastic restaurants, walks, mountain bike tracks and thriving village, people want to come here all year round and that's great for us all." Ski Time's decision came after a busy winter that had seen the town at capacity despite a worker shortage. Border restrictions heading into that season had made it difficult to recruit staff and Ski Time, like many other hospitality and accommodation providers in Methven, had had to reduce its operating hours and room availability in response. But that did not stop swathes of tourists from hitting the town, with Mt Hutt Skifield returning to its pre-Covid-19 visitation numbers, almost equalling its record years of 2018 and 2019, and even staying open until Labour Weekend. "This was one of the biggest, busiest, quickest, most exhausting, entertaining, satisfying and super successful winter seasons for Ski Time," Peter said. Award-winning facility Ōpuke received an early present on the eve of its first anniversary, collecting a gong at the 2022 New Zealand Architecture Awards. The facility won the commercial category, with the judges saying its "architectural form and material selection reflect the approach to this site at the foothills of the Southern Alps". "A huge effort by many went into creating Ōpuke, so this type of recognition is a real highlight of what has been a pretty successful first year," McKenzie said. Local Democracy Reporting is Public Interest Journalism funded through NZ On Air.


--- ['Outstanding' new hot pool complex opens in Mid-Canterbury] ---
No content


--- [Bumper summer for Methven hot pools | Star News] ---
Ōpuke Thermal Pools and Spa general manager Matt Turner said visitor numbers to their pools are up significantly, easily heading for a record January figure. The $15 million Methven hot pools, which opened in 2021, had over 100,000 visits in the first year. “We are still pushing past 100,000 and continuing to grow,” Turner said. Winter remains the peak season on the back of the Mt Hutt Ski Area bringing people to town, but visitation continues to increase throughout the year, Turner said. “It’s a great thing having the town being so busy. “Anytime we are busy, the roll-on effect for the town and the district is huge.” The pool's summer popularity had been helped by Mid Canterbury’s only indoor pool, at Ashburton’s EA Network Centre, closing for maintenance work in January. “We have had a few guests say with EA Networks Centre being closed they came to us for their water fix,” Turner said. Ashburton District Council people and facilities group manager Sarah Mosley said the Hampstead School Pool was opened to provide a swimming option while the EA Networks Centre pool was closed. There were no expectations for attendance or that swimmer numbers would cover the cost of operating the outdoor pool, she said. “The weather does affect swimmer numbers and on one warm day we had 43 swimmers.” Total revenue in pool takings for this period was around $1700. The Hastings District Council reported having 12,864 fewer visitors to the city’s Splash Planet amusement park earlier this month due to the cold and wet weather, meaning a drop in revenue of $320,000. Things aren’t so bad in Mid Canterbury as the maintenance closure was factored into the budgets, Mosley said. The majority of the maintenance is going to plan, and the aquatic area is scheduled to re-open on February 3, she said. “The leisure pool area (splash deck, toddlers’ pool, and lazy river) could be a week later because a replacement part in the filter equipment is coming from overseas. "While that’s disappointing, the fault was only identified when the maintenance work began.” “We are in the process of bedding in a new point of sale system, so we don't have the exact stats at the moment, but early indications are that visits are down around 10-15%,” Selwyn’s head of sport and recreation James Richmond said. There are outdoor pools at Darfield, Sheffield, Southbridge, Killinchy and the Leeston learners pool. By Jonathan Leask, Local Democracy Reporter ■ LDR is local body journalism co-funded by RNZ and NZ On Air.


--- [12 Months of the Year - timeanddate.com] ---
Each month has either 28, 30, or 31 days during a common year, which has 365 days. During leap years, which occur nearly every 4 years, we add an extra (intercalary) day, Leap Day, on 29 February, making leap years 366 days long. This is to keep our current calendar aligned with the solar year and astronomical seasons marked by equinoxes and solstices. The 12 Months The Gregorian calendar consists of the following 12 months: - January (31 days) - March (31 days) - April (30 days) - May (31 days) - June (30 days) - July (31 days) - August (31 days) - September (30 days) - October (31 days) - November (30 days) - December (31 days) Tracking the Moon’s Orbit The months originated as a way to mark time and break up the year into shorter periods based on the Moon’s orbit around Earth. The word month is even derived from the word Moon. As far as we know, months were first used in Mesopotamia sometime between the years 500 BCE and 400 BCE to measure the natural period related to the lunar month, or synodic month, which is the time it takes for the Moon to go through all the Moon phases. Moon phases in your cityHow Many Have 28, 29, 30, or 31 Days? The Gregorian calendar has 4 months that are 30 days long and 7 months that are 31 days long. February is the only month that is 28 days long in common years and 29 days long in leap years. From 10 to 12 Months Our current Gregorian calendar and its predecessor, the Julian calendar, both have 12 months. However, the month names we use today are derived from the Roman calendar, which initially had only 10 months, with the calendar year starting in March (Martius). Calendar with holidaysThe Romans named some of the months after their position in the calendar year: September means the 7th month, October the 8th, November the 9th, and December the 10th month. However, when January and February were eventually added and the beginning of the calendar year was moved to January, the position of these months no longer corresponded with the original meaning of their names. Today, we still call the 9th month of the year September, the 7th month. The Islamic calendar, the Hebrew calendar, and the Hindu calendar also use months to divide up the year. Although the Gregorian calendar is the most commonly used calendar today, other calendars are still used in many parts of the world to calculate certain holidays and annual feasts. Old Names of Months Months in the ancient Roman calendar include:


--- [Hot pools, stout and a Topp | Star News] ---
My sole attempt at skiing was probably the most humiliating experience of my early 20s. While my girlfriends soon got the hang of staying upright on skinny bits of wood and using the chairlift, most of my weekend was spent lying prone on the nursery slopes while cheery under-5s buzzed around me. Wrong, wrong, wrong. The buzzing Mid Canterbury town has plenty to occupy the skier on the rare days when the mountain is closed and is sensibly promoting these activities for the off-season visitor, too. I started at Methven’s newest attraction, Opuke Thermal Pools and Spa, opened in November last year. Set in grounds planted with native trees, shrubs and grasses, the facility is heated by banks of solar panels. The water in the open-air pools is deliciously warm year-round and there are views to Mt Hutt, Opuke in Maori. Already the Opuke spa is attracting families like the couple I met with two little boys. They had come from Christchurch, an hours drive away, and voted it a great experience. Their 6-year-old soon engaged with another young visitor to share the fun of a water gun, while his toddler brother splashed happily while securely held by his mum. There is a small group of private hot tubs, too, close to the spa’s boundary with the town’s racecourse. Thus, when the Methven Trotting Club has a meeting, punters can watch from solar-heated splendour, a unique experience. Indoors at Opuke, the atmosphere is tranquil, aimed at the premium end of the market, with packages from two hours to two days for individuals, couples and corporate travellers. I had a relaxing full-body massage and had time permitted, would have added a facial or a Turkish-style mud-and-steam treatment. "It’s totally different from anything else on offer," Opuke marketing co-ordinator Olivia Attwood said. Gary is a Dubliner, who explains the pub’s success and it’s raft of awards by saying "I tink all we did was replicate what’s good at home". The Murphy’s stout on sale is the real thing, imported from County Cork, but Gary shakes his head over the Guinness. "It’s brewed in Auckland [and] not at all like at home," he said. Produce is sourced locally whenever possible and the restaurant has a good medium-range wine list. With The Dubliner’s awards in mind, I opted for a steak and my companions both chose the rack of lamb. We were all delighted with our choices and the chance to sample an Irish liqueur at the end of the meal was a bonus. As my skiing experience demonstrated, I’m no athlete, so a morning on the Methven golf course didn’t attract me. Dirt Bandits sounded more my idea of fun, racing around a purpose-built track by the Rakaia River in a grunty utility terrain vehicle (UTV). Of course, the blokes adore it, says director Peter Summers, adding his popular Can-Am X3 XRC is a 172hp off-road machine capable of getting to 100kmh in just under 4.5 seconds. It’s not just for the boys, though, as women also find the rides exhilarating (even the one who arrived in white jeans and high-heeled shoes that were never the same again) and they have special packages for kids. Calling into the NZ Alpine and Agriculture Encounter to see if kids would enjoy it (yes, especially the big machines and the milking cow), I am drawn to a display of historic skiing gear. The skis look just like the ones I fell off — does that make me a historic figure? Getting there: From the south, turn inland either at Temuka or Ashburton. Driving time from Dunedin is about four hours.
