=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Ice stupa - Wikipedia]
On 15 November 2016, Sonam Wangchuk was awarded the Rolex Awards for Enterprise for his work on ice stupas. Since Wangchuk's first ice stupa project, over a dozen ice stupas have been built in the region, providing over 25 million liters of water.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ice_Stupa

[Ice Stupa in Leh Ladakh - When & Where to See]
Who Invented Ice Stupa? Sonam Wangchuk, a visionary environmental engineer, is the mastermind behind the Ice Stupa. The project was launched by the NGO "Students Educational and Cultural Movement of Ladakh" in October 2013. Witnessing the water scarcity in Ladakh, Wangchuk's innovative solution has inspired many. How do Ice stupas help ...
URL: https://www.lehladakhindia.com/ice-stupa/

[Ice Stupa - Bharatpedia]
Ice Stupa was invented by Sonam Wangchuk in Ladakh (India) and the project is undertaken by the NGO Students' Educational and Cultural Movement of Ladakh. Launched in October 2013, the test project started in January 2014 under the project name The Ice Stupa project.
URL: https://en.bharatpedia.org/wiki/Ice_Stupa

[Ice stupa - Wikipedia]
Launched in October 2013, the test project started in January 2014 under the project name The Ice Stupa Project. On 15 November 2016, Sonam Wangchuk was awarded the Rolex Awards for Enterprise for his work on ice stupas.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ice_stupa

[Ice Stupas: Artificial glaciers provide fresh water in Ladakh, Himalayas]
May 9, 2018 · Launched in October 2013, the test project started in January 2014 under the project name The Ice Stupa project. On 15 November 2016, Sonam Wangchuk was awarded Rolex Awards for Enterprise for his work on Ice Stupa. Ladakh is a trans-Himalayan mountain desert in the extreme north of India with villages located at 2,700m to 4,000m altitudes.
URL: https://www.startupselfie.net/2018/05/09/ice-stupas-artificial-glaciers-provide-fresh-water-ladakh-himalayas/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Ice stupa - Wikipedia] ---
Ice stupa | The Ice Stupa project | | |---|---| | Commercial? | No | | Type of project | Water conservation | | Location | Ladakh, India | | Owner | Students' Educational and Cultural Movement of Ladakh (SECMOL) | | Founder | Sonam Wangchuk | | Country | India | | Key people | Sonam Wangchuk | | Established | October 2013 | | Budget | Crowdfunding | | Status | Operational | An ice stupa is a glacier grafting technique that creates artificial glaciers, used for storing winter water (which otherwise would go unused) in the form of conical-shaped ice heaps. During summer, when water is scarce, the ice melts to increase the water supply for crops.[1] Channelling and freezing water for irrigation has existed for hundreds of years. It was re-invented, popularised and scaled up by Sonam Wangchuk in Ladakh, India. The project is undertaken by the Students' Educational and Cultural Movement of Ladakh NGO. Launched in October 2013, the test project started in January 2014 under the project name The Ice Stupa Project. On 15 November 2016, Sonam Wangchuk was awarded the Rolex Awards for Enterprise for his work on ice stupas. Since Wangchuk's first ice stupa project, over a dozen ice stupas have been built in the region, providing over 25 million liters of water.[1] Ladakh is a cold desert where agriculture is not practised during the winter due to frozen soil and low air temperatures. During spring, the water requirement for sowing increases, while at the same time, streams dry up. With annual rainfall of less than 50 millimetres (2.0 in), agriculture in Ladakh is solely dependent on snow and glacier meltwater. Due to climate change, the region experiences hotter summers with an increase in ice melt, together with a shift in the timing and precipitation of the melts. Subsequently, during the spring season, water is more scarce, which in turn impacts agriculture and food supplies.[2][3][4] In the month of May, Sonam Wangchuk noticed ice under a bridge. Despite summer temperatures and being at the lowest elevation in Ladakh, the ice had not melted because it was not in direct sunlight. Wangchuk realised ice could last longer in Ladakh if it could be shaded from the sun. Since providing shade to larger bodies of water was not possible, Wangchuk thought of freezing and storing water in the shape of a cone, which offers minimum surface area to the sun while containing a high volume of water.[3] In October 2013, Sonam Wangchuk created a prototype 6 metres (20 ft) high ice stupa by freezing 150,000 L (40,000 US gal) in Leh without any shade from the sun. Water was piped from upstream by gravity, without using electricity or machinery. The ice stupa did not completely melt until 18 May 2014, even when the temperature was above 20 °C (68 °F).[2][3][4][5] The Ladakh region experiences water shortage for the needs of agriculture during spring, which restricts even further the cultivation period in a subarctic climate area.[5] By harnessing a fraction of the abundant wind, hydro and solar power potential of the Ladakh region without the need for energy storage, ice stupas can be made using snow cannons to irrigate all the cultivable land for crops, arcades, plantations, etc.[6] With the aim of promoting artificial glaciers and saving water for irrigation, an Ice Stupa Competition has been held since 2019.[7] In 2019, 12 ice stupas were built, and in 2020, around 25. References [edit]- ^ a b "In Kashmir, An Ancient Solution Solves a New Problem". Global Press Journal. 13 January 2019. Retrieved 21 June 2025. - ^ a b "Ice Stupas: Conserving water the 3 Idiots way". Forbes India. Retrieved 21 November 2016. - ^ a b c "Sonam Wangchuk Wins the Rolex Award". thewire.in/. Retrieved 21 November 2016. - ^ a b "Ice Stupas: Water conservation in the land of the Buddha". indiawaterportal.org. Retrieved 21 November 2016. - ^ a b "Ice Stupa - A Form of Artificial Glacier". Official website. Retrieved 21 November 2016. - ^ "Artificial snow is nothing like the real stuff". 10 February 2022. Retrieved 14 February 2022. - ^ "Villages in Ladakh compete for building artificial glaciers". External links [edit]- Video about Ice stupa - Adaptation: Ice stupas of Ladakh PBS series hosted by climate researcher Alizé Carrère - [1] Ice stupas of the Ladakh desert: an ingenious solution to water scarcity – a picture essay The Guardian


--- [Ice Stupa in Leh Ladakh - When & Where to See] ---
Ice Stupa in Leh Ladakh Ice Stupa in Leh Ladakh is a unique glacier engrafting technique. It involves creating artificial glaciers that store winter water in a cone-shaped ice heap. This process, pioneered by environmental engineer Sonam Wangchuk, results in two massive artificial glaciers in Ladakh’s Phyang village, known as Ice Stupas. These Ice Stupas, standing sky-high even during the summer, are a testament to human ingenuity. They require little effort and investment, yet they provide a sustainable water source for agriculture and other purposes during spring and summer. The idea of artificial glaciers is not new to Ladakh. Here, you can hear the soft dripping of meltwater flowing through a large pipe linked to the reservoir. The water is then used to develop a sizeable fertile plantation area in the village. When planning your tour with Leh Ladakh India, you can customize your Leh itinerary and add Ice Stupa in Ladakh to your package to witness this enchanting location. Our packages include comfortable stays, delicious meals, and local transfers to keep you jolly throughout your Ladakh holiday. Who Invented Ice Stupa? Sonam Wangchuk, a visionary environmental engineer, is the mastermind behind the Ice Stupa. The project was launched by the NGO “Students Educational and Cultural Movement of Ladakh” in October 2013. Witnessing the water scarcity in Ladakh, Wangchuk’s innovative solution has inspired many. How do Ice stupas help people? Ice Stupas play a crucial role in supporting the local community by storing frozen water to irrigate crops during the driest periods of the year. This sustainable solution is a testament to the resilience and ingenuity of the Ladakhi people. What can tourists see or learn by visiting these stupas? One of the most exciting things to explore when you visit the Ice Stupa is the Ice Cafe. This unique cafe, developed by the Border Road Organization officials in collaboration with local youths, is housed inside the cone-shaped ice structure of the Stupa. Here, you can enjoy hot tea, coffee, or noodles, all while marveling at the creativity and innovation that the cafe represents. The best time to Visit the Ice Stupa in Ladakh To experience the glorifying beauty of an Ice Stupa, you should visit the area where one is built during the winter seasons. Where to See Ice Stupas in Leh Ladakh You can explore Ice Stupas in Phyang Village in Leh Ladakh, the Himalayan region of northern Indian. What attractions are near Ice Stupa Artificial Glaciers? You can explore some popular attractions near Ice Stupa, such as Alchi Monastery or Alchi Gompa, a Buddhist Monastery on the banks of the Indus River located about 36.30 km from the capital Leh; Hemis Monastery, the supreme monastery situated 40.18 km from Leh; Diskit Gompa or Diskit Monastery, 7.34 km from Leh, Hall of Fame, a museum built by the Indian Army in the memory of the brave Indian soldiers who laid down their lives; Thiksey Monastery; and a unique Ice Café or a restaurant built inside a vast Ice Stupa. - Passes - Lakes - Monasteries - Attractions - How to Prepare for Ladakh Trip - Facilities in Ladakh - Climate - Family Trip to Ladakh - How and Where to Carry Spare Fuel - Ladakh With Parents - Senior Citizens - How to Carry Laptop - ATM and Bank Facilities in Leh City - Things to Carry for Ladakh Winter Trip - Where & How to Rent an Oxygen Cylinder - Ladakh in June - Ladakh in May - Ladakh in July - Ladakh in September - Ladakh in October - Ladakh in August - Ladakh in November - Leh to Nubra Valley - Delhi to Ladakh - Bangalore to Ladakh - Pangong Lake to Tso Moriri - Travel from Manali to Leh - Leh to Tso Moriri - How to Travel to Pangong Tso - How to Travel Nubra Valley to Pangong Tso via Wari - Srinagar to Leh - Leh to Khardung La - Stay in Ladakh - Rent a Bike in Ladakh - Rent a Bike in Leh - Rent a Bike in Srinagar - Rent a Bike in Manali - Mobile Phone Services in Ladakh - Hotels on Manali Leh Highway - Hotels on Srinagar Leh Highway - Hotels Near Tso Moriri - Hotels in Leh - Hotels Near Pangong Lake - Hotels in Nubra Valley - Mountain Biking - Leh Jeep Safari - Adventure Sports - Mountaineering in Ladakh - Camping in Ladakh - Lifestyle - Buddhism in Ladakh - Cuisine in Ladakh - River Rafting in Ladakh - History & Culture - Shopping in Ladakh - Trekking in Ladakh - Wildlife in Ladakh - Tips and Suggestions - Ladakh in January - Ladakh in December - Clothes to carry for your Ladakh Trip - Medical Facilities


--- [Ice Stupa - Bharatpedia] ---
No content


--- [Ice stupa - Wikipedia] ---
An ice stupa is a glacier grafting technique that creates artificial glaciers, used for storing winter water (which otherwise would go unused) in the form of conical-shaped ice heaps. During summer, when water is scarce, the ice melts to increase the water supply for crops. Channelling and freezing water for irrigation has existed for hundreds of years. It was re-invented, popularised and scaled up by Sonam Wangchuk in Ladakh, India. The project is undertaken by the Students' Educational and Cultural Movement of Ladakh NGO. Launched in October 2013, the test project started in January 2014 under the project name The Ice Stupa Project. On 15 November 2016, Sonam Wangchuk was awarded the Rolex Awards for Enterprise for his work on ice stupas. Since Wangchuk's first ice stupa project, over a dozen ice stupas have been built in the region, providing over 25 million liters of water.

Ladakh is a cold desert where agriculture is not practised during the winter due to frozen soil and low air temperatures. During spring, the water requirement for sowing increases, while at the same time, streams dry up. With annual rainfall of less than 50 millimetres (2.0 in), agriculture in Ladakh is solely dependent on snow and glacier meltwater. Due to climate change, the region experiences hotter summers with an increase in ice melt, together with a shift in the timing and precipitation of the melts. Subsequently, during the spring season, water is more scarce, which in turn impacts agriculture and food supplies.
In the month of May, Sonam Wangchuk noticed ice under a bridge. Despite summer temperatures and being at the lowest elevation in Ladakh, the ice had not melted because it was not in direct sunlight. Wangchuk realised ice could last longer in Ladakh if it could be shaded from the sun. Since providing shade to larger bodies of water was not possible, Wangchuk thought of freezing and storing water in the shape of a cone, which offers minimum surface area to the sun while containing a high volume of water.
In October 2013, Sonam Wangchuk created a prototype 6 metres (20 ft) high ice stupa by freezing 150,000 L (40,000 US gal) in Leh without any shade from the sun. Water was piped from upstream by gravity, without using electricity or machinery. The ice stupa did not completely melt until 18 May 2014, even when the temperature was above 20 °C (68 °F).
The Ladakh region experiences water shortage for the needs of agriculture during spring, which restricts even further the cultivation period in a subarctic climate area. By harnessing a fraction of the abundant wind, hydro and solar power potential of the Ladakh region without the need for energy storage, ice stupas can be made using snow cannons to irrigate all the cultivable land for crops, arcades, plantations, etc.
With the aim of promoting artificial glaciers and saving water for irrigation, an Ice Stupa Competition has been held since 2019. In 2019, 12 ice stupas were built, and in 2020, around 25.




--- [Ice Stupas: Artificial glaciers provide fresh water in Ladakh, Himalayas] ---
Ice Stupa is a form of glacier grafting technique that creates artificial glaciers, used for storing winter water (which otherwise goes waste) in form of conical shaped ice heap. During summer, when water is scarce, the Ice Stupa melts to increase water supply for crops. Ice Stupa was innovated by Sonam Wangchuk in Ladakh, India and the project is undertaken by the NGO Students’ Educational and Cultural Movement of Ladakh. Launched in October 2013, the test project started in January 2014 under the project name The Ice Stupa project. On 15 November 2016, Sonam Wangchuk was awarded Rolex Awards for Enterprise for his work on Ice Stupa. Ladakh is a trans-Himalayan mountain desert in the extreme north of India with villages located at 2,700m to 4,000m altitudes. It is a cold desert with winter temperatures touching -30° C, and an average annual rain/snow fall of only 100 mm. Human settlements are almost always located around glacial streams which feed into the Indus and other rivers as tributaries. The key to human settlement in this cold desert is the art of diverting water from the streams through meticulously built canals toward deserts to grow crops like barley, wheat, vegetables and trees like apricots, apples, willow and poplar. The Problem Most villages face acute water shortage, particularly during the two crucial months of April and May when there is little water in the streams and all the villagers compete to water their newly planted crops. By mid-June there is an excess of water and even flash flooding due to the fast melting of the snow and glaciers in the mountains. By mid-September all farming activities end, and yet a smaller stream flows throughout the winter steadily but wastefully going into the Indus river without being of use to anybody. The problem is getting worse with time as Himalayan glaciers are disappearing due to global warming and local pollution. The Solution The idea behind artificial glaciers is to freeze and hold the water that keeps flowing and wasting away down the streams and into the rivers throughout the winter. Instead, this ice will melt in the springtime, just when the fields need watering. This is achieved by freezing the stream water vertically in the form of huge ice towers or cones of 30 to 50m height that look very similar to the local sacred mud structures called Stupa or Chorten. These ice mountains can be built right next to the village itself where the water is needed. Very little effort or investment would be needed except for laying one underground pipeline from a higher point on the stream to the outskirts of the village. How it Works The idea is very simple and needs no pumps or power. We all know that water maintains its level. Therefore, water piped from 60m upstream would easily rise close to 60m up from ground when it reaches the village. For simplicity we can imagine that the pipe is mounted on a mobile-phone tower of that height, and then it is made to fall from that height in cold Ladakhi winter nights when it is -30 to -50°C outside (with wind chill factor). The water would freeze by the time it reaches the ground and slowly form a huge cone or Ice Stupa roughly 30 to 50m high. The idea is also to conserve this tower of ice as long into the summer as possible so that as it melts, it feeds the fields until the real glacial melt waters start flowing in June. Since these ice cones extend vertically upwards towards the sun, they receive fewer of the sun’s rays per the volume of water stored; hence, they will take much longer to melt compared to an artificial glacier of the same volume formed horizontally on a flat surface. The Prototype In October 2013, Sonam Wangchuk created the first prototype of 6 metres (20 ft) Ice Stupa by freezing 150,000 liters (40,000 US gallons) in Leh without any shade from the sun. Water was piped from upstream using gravity. Electricity or machinery was not used for pumping water. The Ice Stupa did not melt fully until 18 May 2014, even when the temperature was above 20 °C (68 °F). With the grant from Rolex, Wangchuk is now working on creating the next generation of ice towers – 20 more, each 100 feet high.
