=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Edmund Burke - Wikipedia]
Edmund Burke (/ bɜːrk /; 12 January [NS] 1729 [2] - 9 July 1797) was an Anglo-Irish writer, philosopher, and politician who is widely credited as the founder of the cultural and political philosophy of conservatism. [3] Regarded as one of the most influential conservative thinkers and political writers of the 18th century, [4] Burke spent the majority of his career in Great Britain and was ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Edmund_Burke

[Edmund Burke Facts for Kids]
Edmund Burke (born January 12, 1729 - died July 9, 1797) was an important Anglo-Irish statesman, economist, and philosopher. He was born in Dublin, Ireland. Burke served as a member of Parliament (MP) from 1766 to 1794. He was part of the Whig Party in the House of Commons of Great Britain. Burke believed that good manners and strong religious groups were important for a stable and healthy ...
URL: https://kids.kiddle.co/Edmund_Burke

[Edmund Burke (1729-1797)]
Burke's last years were overshadowed by the death of Richard, his only son, on whom his political ambitions centred. He continued to write, defending himself from his critics, deploring the condition of Ireland, and opposing any recognition of the French government. Burke died on July 9, 1797 at Beaconsfield, Buckinghamshire.
URL: http://www.historyhome.co.uk/people/burke.htm

[Edmund Burke - New World Encyclopedia]
Edmund Burke (January 12, 1729 - July 9, 1797) was an Anglo-Irish statesman, author, orator, political theorist, and philosopher, who served for many years in the British House of Commons as a member of the Whig party.
URL: https://www.newworldencyclopedia.org/entry/Edmund_Burke

[BBC - History - Edmund Burke]
Read a brief biography about Edmund Burke who fiercely opposed the French Revolution and outlined his feelings in 'Reflections on the Revolution in France'.
URL: https://www.bbc.co.uk/history/historic_figures/burke_edmund.shtml


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Edmund Burke - Wikipedia] ---
Edmund Burke (; 12 January [NS] 1729 – 9 July 1797) was an Anglo-Irish writer, philosopher, and politician who is widely credited as the founder of the cultural and political philosophy of conservatism. Regarded as one of the most influential conservative thinkers and political writers of the 18th century, Burke spent the majority of his career in Great Britain and was elected as a member of Parliament (MP) from 1766 to 1794 in the House of Commons of Great Britain with the Whig Party. His writings played a significant role in influencing public views and opinions in both Great Britain and France following the French Revolution in 1789, and he remains a major figure in modern conservative circles.
Burke was a proponent of underpinning virtues with manners in society and of the importance of religious institutions for the moral stability and good of the state. These views were expressed in his satirical work, A Vindication of Natural Society (1756). He also criticised the actions of the British government towards the American colonies, including its taxation policies. Burke supported the rights of the colonists to resist metropolitan authority, although he opposed the attempt to achieve independence. He is further remembered for his long-term support for Catholic emancipation, the impeachment of Warren Hastings from the East India Company, and his opposition to the French Revolution. In 1774, Burke was elected a member of Parliament for Bristol.
In his Reflections on the Revolution in France (1790), Burke asserted that the revolution was destroying the fabric of good society and traditional institutions of state and society, and he condemned the persecution of the Catholic Church that resulted from it. This led to his becoming a popular leading figure within the conservative faction of the Whig Party which he dubbed the Old Whigs as opposed to the pro-French Revolution New Whigs led by Charles James Fox. Burke had a close relation with some of the public intellectuals of his time, including Samuel Johnson, David Garrick, Oliver Goldsmith and Joshua Reynolds. In his debates, he often argued against unrestricted ruling power and the importance of political parties having the ability to maintain a principled opposition that was capable of preventing abuse of power.
In the 19th century, Burke was praised by both conservatives and liberals. Subsequently, in the 20th century, he became widely regarded, especially in the United States and the United Kingdom, as the philosophical founder of conservatism, along with his ultra-royalist and ultramontane counterpart Joseph de Maistre. His writings and literary publications influenced British conservative thought to a great extent, and helped establish the earliest foundations for modern conservatism and liberal democracy.




--- [Edmund Burke Facts for Kids] ---
Edmund Burke facts for kids Quick facts for kids Edmund Burke | | |---|---| | Portrait by Joshua Reynolds, c. 1769 | | | Rector of the University of Glasgow | | | In office 1783–1785 | | | Preceded by | Henry Dundas | | Succeeded by | Robert Bontine | | Paymaster of the Forces | | | In office 16 April 1783 – 8 January 1784 | | | Prime Minister | | | Preceded by | Isaac Barré | | Succeeded by | William Grenville | | In office 10 April 1782 – 1 August 1782 | | | Prime Minister | The Marquess of Rockingham | | Preceded by | Richard Rigby | | Succeeded by | Isaac Barré | | Member of Parliament for Malton | | | In office 18 October 1780 – 20 June 1794 Serving with | | | Preceded by | Savile Finch | | Succeeded by | Richard Burke Jr. | | Member of Parliament for Bristol | | | In office 4 November 1774 – 6 September 1780 Serving with Henry Cruger | | | Preceded by | Matthew Brickdale | | Succeeded by | Henry Lippincott | | Member of Parliament for Wendover | | | In office December 1765 – 5 October 1774 Serving with | | | Preceded by | Verney Lovett | | Succeeded by | John Adams | | Personal details | | | Born | Dublin, Leinster, Kingdom of Ireland | 12 January 1729 | Died | 9 July 1797 Beaconsfield, England, Kingdom of Great Britain | (aged 68) | Political party | Whig (Rockinghamite) | | Spouse | Jane Mary Nugent (m. 1757) | | Children | Richard Burke Jr. | | Education | Trinity College Dublin Middle Temple | | Occupation | Writer, politician, journalist, philosopher | | Philosophy career | | | Notable work | | | Era | Age of Enlightenment | | Region | Western philosophy | | School | Conservatism Liberalism Counter-Enlightenment | | Institutions | Literary Club (co-founder) | | Main interests | | | Notable ideas | | | Signature | | Edmund Burke (born January 12, 1729 – died July 9, 1797) was an important Anglo-Irish statesman, economist, and philosopher. He was born in Dublin, Ireland. Burke served as a member of Parliament (MP) from 1766 to 1794. He was part of the Whig Party in the House of Commons of Great Britain. Burke believed that good manners and strong religious groups were important for a stable and healthy society. He wrote about these ideas in his book A Vindication of Natural Society. He also spoke out against how the British government treated the American colonies, especially their tax rules. Burke supported the colonists' right to protest, but he did not want them to become fully independent. He is also known for supporting Catholic emancipation (giving Catholics more rights). He worked to remove Warren Hastings from the East India Company. Burke was also strongly against the French Revolution. In his book Reflections on the Revolution in France, Burke argued that the French Revolution was destroying good society and old traditions. He also criticized how the Catholic Church was treated during the revolution. This made him a leader of the conservative part of the Whig Party. He called them the "Old Whigs," to show they were different from the "New Whigs" who supported the French Revolution. Later, in the 19th century, both conservatives and liberals admired Burke. In the 20th century, especially in the United States, he became known as the person who started the ideas of conservatism. Contents Edmund Burke's Early Life Edmund Burke was born in Dublin, Ireland. His mother, Mary, was a Roman Catholic. His father, Richard, was a successful lawyer and a member of the Church of Ireland. Burke followed his father's faith and was an Anglican his whole life. However, his sister Juliana was raised Catholic. Later, his political rivals often accused him of being secretly Catholic. At that time, Catholics were not allowed to hold public office in Ireland. As a child, Burke sometimes stayed with his mother's family in County Cork. He went to a Quaker school in Ballitore, County Kildare. He kept in touch with his schoolmate, Mary Leadbeater, throughout his life. In 1744, Burke started studying at Trinity College Dublin. This was a Protestant establishment that did not allow Catholics to get degrees until 1793. In 1747, he started a debating club. This club later joined with another to form the College Historical Society, which is the oldest student society in the world. Burke finished his degree in 1748. Burke's father wanted him to study law. So, in 1750, Burke went to London and joined the Middle Temple. But he soon stopped studying law. Instead, he traveled in Continental Europe and started a career as a writer. Becoming a Writer and Thinker In 1756, Burke published his first major work, A Vindication of Natural Society: A View of the Miseries and Evils Arising to Mankind. In this book, Burke used irony to show problems with some popular ideas of his time. Many people first thought the book was serious, not a satire. Burke had to explain in a later edition that it was meant to be funny and thought-provoking. In 1757, Burke wrote a book about aesthetics called A Philosophical Enquiry into the Origin of Our Ideas of the Sublime and Beautiful. This book got attention from famous thinkers like Denis Diderot and Immanuel Kant. It was his only book purely about philosophy. Burke also signed a contract to write a "history of England." He finished part of it, but it was not published until after he died. In the same year, Burke helped start the Annual Register. This was a publication where writers reviewed the important political events of the past year. Burke was the main editor for many years. On March 12, 1757, Burke married Jane Mary Nugent. Their son, Richard, was born in 1758. Burke also helped raise his nephew, Edmund Nagle, who later became an Admiral. Around this time, Burke met William Gerard Hamilton. Burke became his private secretary when Hamilton became Chief Secretary for Ireland. In 1765, Burke became private secretary to Charles, Marquess of Rockingham. Rockingham was then the Prime Minister of Great Britain. They remained close friends until Rockingham's death in 1782. A Voice in Parliament In December 1765, Burke became a Member of Parliament (MP) for Wendover. This was a "pocket borough," meaning a small area where one person (in this case, Lord Fermanagh, a friend of Rockingham) largely controlled who got elected. After Burke's first speech, William Pitt the Elder praised him greatly. One of the first big issues Burke spoke about was the conflict with the American colonies. This conflict later led to the American Revolutionary War. Burke published a pamphlet called Observations on a Late State of the Nation. In it, he looked at France's money problems and predicted a big change there. Around this time, Burke bought a large estate called Gregories near Beaconsfield. It was a big financial challenge for him. His speeches and writings made him famous. He also joined a group of important thinkers and artists in London, including Samuel Johnson, David Garrick, and Joshua Reynolds. Burke played a key role in debates about the king's power. He argued strongly against the king having too much power. He believed political parties were important to stop abuses of power by the king or by certain groups in the government. His important writing on this was Thoughts on the Cause of the Present Discontents (1770). He said that "secret influence" from the king's friends was causing problems. He believed Britain needed a party that stuck to its principles. In 1771, Burke tried to pass a law that would give juries the right to decide what was libel (false statements that harm someone's reputation). He also helped make it possible to publish debates held in Parliament. Burke believed in a free market for goods like corn. In 1770, he argued that there was only a "natural price" for grain. In 1772, he helped pass a law that removed old rules against corn dealers. In 1773, Burke spoke out against the division of Poland. He saw it as a big problem for the balance of power in Europe. In 1774, Burke was elected MP for Bristol. This was a large city and a real election contest. He gave a famous speech where he explained that an MP should use their own judgment, not just do what their voters demand. He lost re-election for Bristol in 1780. Burke also supported changes to rules that limited Irish trade. His voters in Bristol, a big trading city, wanted him to oppose free trade with Ireland. But Burke stood firm. He said that if he lost their votes, it would show future MPs that someone dared to do what he thought was right, even if it was unpopular. He also supported efforts to remove some of the harsh laws against Catholics. Burke even called capital punishment "the Butchery which we call justice" in 1776. Because he supported these unpopular ideas, like free trade with Ireland and rights for Catholics, Burke lost his seat in 1780. For the rest of his time in Parliament, he represented Malton. This was another "pocket borough" where the Marquess of Rockingham had influence. Standing Up for America Burke supported the complaints of the American Thirteen Colonies against King George III's government. On March 22, 1775, Burke gave a speech in Parliament about making peace with America. He argued for peace instead of war. He reminded Parliament about America's growing population, its hard work, and its wealth. Burke gave four main reasons why Britain should not use force against the colonies: - First, force would only be a temporary solution. The colonists' desire for freedom would not go away. - Second, it was not certain that Britain would win a war in America. "An armament," Burke said, "is not a victory." - Third, using force would damage America. It would do no good to win a war if the land and people were ruined. - Fourth, Britain had no experience in controlling a colony by force from so far away. Burke said the most important reason to avoid war was the character of the American people themselves. He described them as having a strong "love of freedom." He said they were "acute, inquisitive, dextrous, prompt in attack, ready in defence, full of resources." Burke ended his speech with a plea for peace. He prayed that Britain would avoid actions that could "bring on the destruction of this Empire." Burke suggested six ways to solve the American conflict peacefully: - Let the American colonists elect their own representatives to deal with taxes. - Admit that Britain had made mistakes and apologize. - Find a good way to choose and send these representatives. - Set up a General Assembly in America to handle taxes. - Stop collecting taxes by force and only collect them when needed. - Give the colonies the help they required. These ideas were not put into action. Just before the battles at Concord and Lexington, Burke gave this speech. The conflict soon exploded. Burke was upset by celebrations in Britain when Americans were defeated in New York and Pennsylvania. He felt that this harsh approach was changing the English character. He believed the British government was fighting "our English Brethren in the Colonies" with a German king using "German boors and vassals" to destroy English liberties. When America became independent, Burke said he didn't want success for those who would separate from the Empire. But he also didn't want success for "injustice, oppression and absurdity." During the Gordon Riots in 1780, Burke was targeted. His home had to be protected by soldiers. Working in Government When the government changed in March 1782, Rockingham became Prime Minister again. Burke was made Paymaster of the Forces and a Privy Counsellor. This meant he advised the King. Rockingham died unexpectedly in July 1782, and the government changed again. But Burke managed to introduce two important laws: - The Paymaster General Act 1782 stopped the Paymaster job from being a way to make easy money. Before, Paymasters could take money from the Treasury as they pleased. Now, they had to put the money in the Bank of England and only take it out for specific reasons. - The Civil List and Secret Service Money Act 1782 cut down on royal household and government offices. It abolished 134 positions and limited pensions. This was expected to save a lot of money each year. In February 1783, Burke became Paymaster of the Forces again for a short time. After that government fell, William Pitt the Younger became Prime Minister. Burke was then in the opposition for the rest of his political career. What is Representative Democracy? Burke was a bit unsure about full democracy. He thought that while it might sound good, it could be ineffective or even unfair in Britain at the time. He had three main reasons: - First, he believed government needed smart people with a lot of knowledge, which he thought was rare among common people. - Second, he worried that ordinary people could be easily swayed by powerful speakers, leading to anger and violence. This could harm traditions and religion. - Third, Burke warned that democracy could lead to a "tyranny of the majority," where unpopular groups would not be protected. Fighting Against Slavery Burke was against the slave trade. He suggested a law to stop slave owners from being members of Parliament. He believed they were a danger to British freedom. While Burke thought that African people needed to be "civilised" by Christianity, he also believed that slavery itself made people less virtuous. He proposed a plan for gradually freeing slaves. This plan was very detailed for its time. Helping India For many years, Burke worked to remove Warren Hastings, who was the Governor-General of Bengal in India. Burke believed Hastings had done wrong things. This effort led to a long trial starting in 1786. Burke became very involved in issues with the East India Company in India. He was appointed head of a committee to investigate problems in Bengal. Burke wrote reports that told Indian princes that Britain would not wage war on them. He also demanded that the East India Company remove Hastings. This was Burke's first big call for changes in how the British Empire acted. In 1785, Burke gave a famous speech called The Nabob of Arcot's Debts. In it, he strongly criticized the harm done to India by the East India Company. He argued that the Company's rule had damaged good Indian traditions and caused suffering. He wanted to set up clear moral rules for how an overseas empire should be run. On April 4, 1786, Burke formally accused Hastings of "High Crimes and Misdemeanors" in Parliament. The trial began in 1788 and became a very public event. Burke was known for his powerful speeches. He called Hastings a "captain-general of iniquity" and a "spider of Hell." The House of Commons eventually accused Hastings, but the House of Lords later found him not guilty of all charges. Views on the French Revolution At first, Burke did not completely condemn the French Revolution. In August 1789, he wrote that he was amazed by France's fight for liberty. But he also noted that the "old Parisian ferocity" had appeared in a shocking way. The events of October 5-6, 1789, when Parisian women marched on Versailles and forced King Louis XVI to return to Paris, changed Burke's mind. He then described France as "a country undone." In January 1790, Burke read a sermon by Richard Price that praised the French Revolution. Price argued that the Glorious Revolution of 1688 in England gave people the right to choose and remove their leaders. Burke disagreed strongly with Price. He immediately started writing what became Reflections on the Revolution in France. He published it on November 1, 1790. It became a best-seller right away, selling thousands of copies. A French translation also became very popular. In Reflections, Burke argued against Price's view of the Glorious Revolution. Burke believed that society was a partnership not just between living people, but also with those who had died and those yet to be born. He said that people should respect traditions and institutions because they are based on the wisdom of many generations. He criticized the French Revolution for trying to completely rebuild society based on new, untested ideas. One famous part of Burke's Reflections described the events of October 1789 and the role of Marie Antoinette. Burke's dramatic language about the queen caused both praise and criticism. Many of Burke's fellow Whig MPs, like Richard Sheridan and Charles James Fox, disagreed with him. This led to a split in the Whig Party and ended Burke's friendship with Fox. Fox thought Burke's Reflections were "in very bad taste." However, other Whigs, like the Duke of Portland, privately agreed with Burke. Burke wanted to show that he was still true to Whig principles. He published An Appeal from the New to the Old Whigs in 1791. In this book, he again criticized the radical ideas of the French Revolution. He argued that Whigs who supported these ideas were going against the party's traditional beliefs. Eventually, most Whigs sided with Burke. They supported William Pitt the Younger's government, which declared war on Revolutionary France in 1793. Burke supported the war against France. He saw it as a fight against a dangerous new way of thinking, not just against the French nation. He even revealed a dagger in Parliament, saying it showed what Britain would gain from an alliance with France. In 1794, Burke received thanks from Parliament for his work in the Hastings Trial. He then resigned his seat in Parliament. Sadly, his son Richard died shortly after, which was a huge loss for Burke. King George III offered to make him a lord, but Burke only accepted a pension. When some people criticized this pension, Burke replied in his Letter to a Noble Lord (1796). He argued that his reward was based on his hard work, unlike those who inherited their wealth. He famously wrote: "To innovate is not to reform." Burke's last writings were the Letters on a Regicide Peace (1796). In these, he argued against making peace with France. He believed the war was about ideas, against an "armed doctrine." He saw the French Revolution as a dangerous movement trying to take over all of Europe. Later Years and Legacy In his later years, Burke continued to write about important issues. In 1795, he wrote about the high price of corn. He believed in the ideas of Adam Smith, who thought that markets should be free. Smith himself said that Burke was the only person he knew who thought about economics exactly like him. Burke died in Beaconsfield, England, on July 9, 1797. He was buried there next to his son and brother. Most political historians see Burke as a liberal conservative. He is often called the father of modern British conservatism. Burke believed that owning property was very important for society. He thought that the way property was divided helped create social order and control. Burke's support for groups like Irish Catholics and Indians, who were often treated unfairly, sometimes made him unpopular with some politicians. But his strong opposition to the French Revolution also made him unpopular with others. This meant Burke was often alone in Parliament. In the 19th century, both liberals and conservatives praised Burke. Even his political opponents, like William Hazlitt, admired him. Many important figures, including William Wordsworth and Samuel Taylor Coleridge, who first criticized Burke, later came to admire his ideas and predictions. George Canning, a Prime Minister, said Burke's Reflections had been proven right by later events. The Conservative Prime Minister Benjamin Disraeli was greatly influenced by Burke's later writings. The Liberal Prime Minister William Gladstone called Burke "a magazine of wisdom on Ireland and America." Burke's Reflections on the Revolution in France was debated when it came out. But after his death, it became his most famous and important work. It is seen as a key text for conservative thinking. Historians like Piers Brendon say that Burke helped set the moral rules for the British Empire. Burke believed that the British Empire "must be governed on a plan of freedom." This idea, that colonial government should benefit the people it ruled, was very important. There are statues of Burke in Bristol, England, Trinity College Dublin, and Washington, D.C.. A school in Washington, D.C., and a street in New York are also named after him. Religious Beliefs Burke believed that religion was the foundation of civil society. He strongly criticized deism (belief in a distant God) and atheism (no belief in God). He emphasized that Christianity helped society progress. Even though his mother was Catholic and his father Protestant, Burke strongly defended the Church of England. He also understood and cared about Catholic issues. He believed that having a state-supported religion helped protect people's freedoms. He thought Christianity benefited not only a person's soul but also how society was organized. Famous Sayings The quote "The only thing necessary for the triumph of evil is for good men to do nothing" is often said to be from Burke. However, it is not certain if he actually said or wrote these exact words. Timeline In Popular Culture Actor T. P. McKenna played Edmund Burke in the TV series Longitude in 2000. See also In Spanish: Edmund Burke para niños


--- [Edmund Burke (1729-1797)] ---
Biography | I am happy that you are using this web site and hope that you found it useful. Unfortunately, the cost of making this material freely available is increasing, so if you have found the site useful and would like to contribute towards its continuation, I would greatly appreciate it. Click the button to go to Paypal and make a donation. Edmund Burke was born on 1 January 1729 (Old Style; 12 January New Style). His stated birthplace is Dublin although there is a strong tradition in County Cork that Burke was actually born at Ballywater, Shanballymore (Connor Cruise O'Brien, The Great Melody, 1992). Although his mother, Mary Nagle, was a Catholic and his father, Richard - a solicitor - had converted to Anglicanism, Burke was educated from 1741 at Abraham Shackleton's Quaker boarding school in Ballitore, Co. Kildare. Edmund Burke was brought up as an Anglican in order that he would not be limited by the Williamite Penal Laws against Catholics. In 1744 Burke successfully sat the entrance examinations for Trinity College, Dublin. He took his final examinations in 1748 and in 1750 he embarked on his legal training at the Middle Temple in London but appears to have lost interest in the Law as a career. He left England and spent some time wandering around England and France. He then took up a career in writing. His early publications include In 1757 Burke married Jane Nugent, a Catholic; also it is from this time that his friendships with literary and artistic people such as Samuel Johnson, Oliver Goldsmith, Sir Joshua Reynolds, and David Garrick began. In 1759 Burke became an assistant to William Gerard Hamilton MP. When Hamilton was appointed Chief Secretary for Ireland in April 1761 he asked Burke to accompany him as his private secretary, a job Burke accepted. Consequently, Burke had an officially minor, but significant role in the government of Ireland between 1761 and 1764 when Hamilton was dismissed. The two men quarrelled irrevocably in April 1765 and Hamilton terminated Burke's employment. Despite strong advice to the contrary, the second Marquis of Rockingham appointed Burke as his private secretary in July 1765; Burke remained with Rockingham until the marquis died in July 1782. Rockingham, who was in the throes of establishing his first Ministry in 1765, arranged for Burke to enter parliament as MP for Lord Verney's pocket borough of Wendover at an election in December of that year. As Rockingham's private secretary, Burke became privy to the affairs of the inner circle of Rockingham Whigs and was employed to articulate the ideas of the party. The most famous of his works, which did this, was Thoughts on the Causes of the Present Discontent, published in 1770 after the leading Rockinghamites had read and amended Burke's first draft. The book appeared at the end of the Decade of Ministerial Instability. In Thoughts, Burke argued that George III's actions in appointing ministers on personal grounds was favouritism and instead, public approval by the people through Parliament should determine the selection of the Prime Minister. This pamphlet includes Burke's famous, and new, justification of party, defined as a body of men united on public principle, which could act as a constitutional link between king and Parliament, providing consistency and strength in administration, or principled criticism in opposition. Rockingham's first ministry (1765-6) was taken up by problems in America. Britain's imposition of the Stamp Act in 1765, along with other measures, provoked unrest and opposition, which soon developed into disobedience and conflict. Opposed to coercion, the Rockingham administration repealed the Stamp Act but asserted Britain's right to impose taxation when it passed the Declaratory Act in 1766. However, the Declaratory Act was the "price" Rockingham had to pay to get the Stamp Act repealed, and he had no intention of implementing the Declaratory Act. Rockingham's measures alleviated the difficulties with the colonies but subsequent administrations revived the attempts to tax America, resulting in war in 1775. Throughout the Anglo-American troubles, Burke followed the Rockingham line of conciliation. Burke's best-known statements on America are two parliamentary speeches In 1774 Burke was elected as an MP for Bristol. He held this seat for six years but lost the seat when, as part of an on-going disagreement with the electors, he told them that he was Member of Parliament, not the Member for Bristol, and would vote as he thought best for the country, even at the expense of his constituency. Having lost his seat, Rockingham ensured that Burke had a safe seat: for the rest of his parliamentary career he was MP for Malton, one of Lord Rockingham's pocket boroughs. Ireland was a continual source of problems for English politicians in the Eighteenth and Nineteenth centuries. Roman Catholics were excluded by the Williamite Penal Laws from political participation and public office. To these disabilities were added widespread rural poverty and a backward economic life aggravated by commercial restrictions resulting from English commercial jealousy. Burke consistently advocated relaxation of the economic and penal regulations, and steps toward legislative independence. In these aims, again he found allies in the Rockingham Whigs who wanted to see religious toleration for all and a lifting of the anti-Catholic legislation. When the Rockingham Whigs took office in 1782, a variety of legislation was passed, reducing pensions and emoluments of offices. Burke was specifically connected with an Act regulating the Civil List, the amount voted by Parliament for the personal and household expenses of the sovereign. After the death of Rockingham in 1782, Burke continued his parliamentary career as an independent MP. Increasingly, he became distanced from the "new" Whigs led by Charles James Fox. Burke devoted many years to matters concerning India. By 1763, Britain controlled most of the sub-continent although the government of India tended to be through the officers of the East India Company. In the 1760s and 1770s, Burke opposed interference by the English government in the company's affairs as a violation of chartered rights. However he learned a great deal about the state of the company's government and decided that the corrupt state of Indian government could be remedied only if its vast patronage was in the hands neither of a company nor of the crown. He drafted the East India Bill of 1783 (Fox's India Bill), which proposed that India be governed by a board of independent commissioners in London. The Bill was defeated as the result of the king's intervention: George III used the India Bill as a means of removing the Fox-North Coalition. Burke's indignation centred on Warren Hastings, governor-general of Bengal from 1772 to 1785 and it was at Burke's instigation that Hastings was impeached in 1787. The impeachment was probably an injustice to Hastings, who was honourably acquitted in 1794. At the conclusion of Hastings' impeachment, Burke retired from Parliament. The outbreak of the French Revolution in 1789 was greeted with much enthusiasm by some people in England. Burke was hostile to it and also was alarmed by the favourable English reaction. He was provoked into writing Reflections on the Revolution in France (1790) it provoked a host of English replies, of which the best known is Thomas Paine's The Rights of Man (1791-92). As a prediction of the course of the Revolution, Reflections was strikingly accurate. Burke opposed the French Revolution to the end of his life, demanding war against the new state. His hostility to the Revolution was challenged by Fox, an ardent supporter of the French Revolution. Their long friendship came to a dramatic end in a parliamentary debate in May 1791 over the events in France. The two men never spoke to each other again. Burke's last years were overshadowed by the death of Richard, his only son, on whom his political ambitions centred. He continued to write, defending himself from his critics, deploring the condition of Ireland, and opposing any recognition of the French government. Burke died on July 9, 1797 at Beaconsfield, Buckinghamshire. | Meet the web creator | These materials may be freely used for non-commercial purposes in accordance with applicable statutory allowances and distribution to students. | Last modified 19 December, 2012 |


--- [Edmund Burke - New World Encyclopedia] ---
Edmund Burke Edmund Burke (January 12, 1729 – July 9, 1797) was an Anglo-Irish statesman, author, orator, political theorist, and philosopher, who served for many years in the British House of Commons as a member of the Whig party. He is chiefly remembered for his support of the American colonies in the struggle against King George III that led to the American Revolution and for his strong opposition to the French Revolution in Reflections on the Revolution in France (1790). The latter made Burke one of the leading figures within the conservative faction of the Whig party (which he dubbed the "Old Whigs"), in opposition to the pro-revolutionary "New Whigs," led by Charles James Fox. Edmund Burke’s ideas influenced the fields of aesthetics and political theory. His early work on aesthetics, Philosophical Enquiry into the Origin of Our Ideas of the Sublime and Beautiful (1757), explored the origins of these two fundamental concepts, relating them respectively to fear of death and to love of society. In A Vindication of Natural Society: A View of the Miseries and Evils Arising to Mankind, which appeared in 1756, he attacked social philosophy, especially that of Rousseau. Burke was taken up by the literary and artistic circles of London, and his publisher encouraged him to try his hand at history, but his historical work was not published during his lifetime. Soon afterward he entered politics, and as a Member of Parliament he produced a number of famous political pamphlets and speeches on party politics, including Thoughts on the Cause of the Present Discontents (1770) and his speech on Conciliation with America (1775), and on financial reform and on the reform of British India, Speech on Mr. Fox’s East India Bill (1783). Burke also founded the Annual Register, a political review. He is often regarded as the father of Anglo-American conservatism. Life Edmund Burke was born January 12, 1729 in Dublin, Ireland. Burke was of Munster Catholic stock, but his father, a solicitor, conformed to the Church of Ireland. His mother, whose maiden name was Nagle, belonged to the Roman Catholic Church. Burke was raised in his father's faith and remained a practicing Anglican throughout his life, but his political enemies would later repeatedly accuse him of harboring secret Catholic sympathies at a time when membership in the Catholic church would have disqualified him from public office. He received his early education at a Quaker school in Ballitore and in 1744 he entered Trinity College in Dublin. In 1747, he founded a Debating Club, known as Edmund Burke's Club, which in 1770 merged with the Historical Club to form the College Historical Society. The minutes of the meetings of Burke's club remain in the collection of the Historical Society. He graduated in 1748. Burke's father wished him to study law, and he went to London in 1750 and entered the Middle Temple, but soon gave up his legal studies in order to travel in Continental Europe. Burke's first published work, A Vindication of Natural Society: A View of the Miseries and Evils Arising to Mankind (1756), attacked social philosophy, especially that of Rousseau, and was fraudulently attributed to Lord Bolingbroke. It was originally taken as a serious treatise on anarchism. Years later, with a government appointment at stake, Burke claimed that it had been intended as a satire. Many modern scholars consider it to be satire, but others take Vindication as a serious defense of anarchism (an interpretation notably espoused by Murray Rothbard). Whether written as a satire or not, it was the first anarchist essay, and was taken seriously by later anarchists such as William Godwin. In 1757 Burke published a treatise on aesthetics, A Philosophical Enquiry into the Origin of Our Ideas of the Sublime and Beautiful, which explored the origins of these two fundamental concepts, relating them respectively to fear of death and to love of society. The essay gave him a reputation in England and attracted the attention of prominent Continental thinkers such as Denis Diderot, Immanuel Kant, and G. E. Lessing. The following year, with the publisher Robert Dodsley, he created the influential Annual Register, a publication in which various authors evaluated the international political events of the previous year. The first volume appeared in 1758, and he retained the editorship for about thirty years. In 1757 Burke also married Jane Nugent. During this period in London, Burke became closely connected with many of the leading intellectuals and artists, including Samuel Johnson, David Garrick, Oliver Goldsmith, and Joshua Reynolds. Political career At about this same time, Burke was introduced to William Gerard Hamilton (known as "Single-speech Hamilton"). When Hamilton was appointed Chief Secretary for Ireland, Burke accompanied him to Dublin as his private secretary, a position he held for three years. In 1765, after an unsuccessful first venture into politics, Burke became private secretary to liberal Whig statesman Charles Watson-Wentworth, the Marquess of Rockingham, leader of one of the groups of Whigs, the largely liberal faction in Parliament, who remained Burke's close friend and associate until his premature death in 1782. In 1765 Burke entered the British Parliament as a member of the House of Commons for Wendover, a pocket borough in the control of Lord Verney (later second Earl Verney), a close political ally of Rockingham. Burke soon became involved in the greatest domestic constitutional controversy of the reign of King George III. The question was whether the king or the Parliament should control the executive; King George III was seeking a more active role for the Crown, which increasingly had lost its influence during the reign of the first two Georges, without impinging on the limitations set on the royal prerogative by the settlement of the Revolution of 1689. Burke published Thoughts on the Cause of the Present Discontents (1770),[1] arguing that George’s actions were against the spirit of the constitution. It was favoritism to allow the King to choose ministers purely on personal grounds; they should be selected by the Parliament with public approval. The pamphlet included Burke’s novel justification of party, which he defined as a body of men united on public principle, which could act as a constitutional link between King and Parliament, providing the administration with strength and consistency, and with principled criticism in times of opposition. Burke argued strongly against unrestrained royal power and for the role of political parties in maintaining a legitimate, organized opposition capable of preventing abuses by the monarch or by specific factions within the government. Burke expressed his support for the grievances of the American colonies under the government of King George III and his appointed representatives. He also campaigned against the persecution of Catholics in Ireland and denounced the abuses and corruption of the East India Company. In 1769 Burke published, in reply to George Grenville, his pamphlet on The Present State of the Nation. In the same year he purchased the small estate of Gregories near Beaconsfield. The 600–acre estate was purchased with mostly borrowed money, and though it contained an art collection that included works by Titian, Gregories nevertheless would prove to be a heavy financial burden on Burke in the following decades. His speeches and writings had now made him famous, and it was even suggested that he was the author of the Letters of Junius. In 1774 he was elected member for Bristol, "England's second city" and a large constituency with a genuine electoral contest. His address to the electors of Bristol defended the principles of representative democracy against the notion that elected officials should act narrowly as advocates for the interests of their constituents. Burke's arguments in this matter helped to formulate the delegate and trustee models of political representation. His support for free trade with Ireland and his advocacy of Catholic emancipation were unpopular with his constituents and caused him to lose his seat in 1780. For the remainder of his parliamentary career, Burke represented Malton, North Yorkshire, another pocket borough controlled by Rockingham. Under the Tory administration of Lord Frederick North (1770 – 1782) the American war went on from bad to worse, and it was in part owing to the oratorical efforts of Burke that the war was at last brought to an end. To this period belong two of his most famous performances, his speech on Conciliation with America (1775), and his Letter to the Sheriffs of Bristol (1777). North’s fall from power led to Rockingham being reinstated. Burke became Paymaster of the Forces and Privy Councillor, but Rockingham's unexpected death in July 1782 put an end to his administration after only a few months. Burke then supported fellow Whig Charles James Fox in his coalition with Lord North, a decision that many came to regard later as his greatest political error. Under that short-lived coalition he continued to hold the office of Paymaster and he distinguished himself in connection with Fox's India Bill. The coalition fell in 1783, and was succeeded by the long Tory administration of William Pitt the Younger, which lasted until 1801. Burke remained in opposition for the remainder of his political life. In 1785 he made his famous speech on The Nabob of Arcot's Debts, and in the next year (1786) he moved for papers in regard to the Indian government of Warren Hastings, the consequence of which was the impeachment trial of Hastings. The trial, of which Burke was the leading promoter, lasted from 1787 until Hastings's eventual acquittal in 1794. Response to the French Revolution Given his record as a strong supporter of American independence and as a campaigner against royal prerogative, many were surprised when Burke published his Reflections on the Revolution in France in 1790. Burke became one of the earliest and fiercest British critics of the French Revolution, which he saw not as movement towards a representative, constitutional democracy but rather as a violent rebellion against tradition and proper authority and as an experiment disconnected from the complex realities of human society, which would end in disaster. Former admirers of Burke, such as Thomas Jefferson and fellow Whig politician Charles James Fox, denounced Burke as a reactionary and an enemy of democracy. Thomas Paine penned The Rights of Man in 1791 as a response to Burke. However, other pro-democratic politicians, such as the American John Adams, agreed with Burke's assessment of the French situation. Many of Burke's dire predictions for the outcome of the French Revolution were later borne out by the execution of King Louis XVI, the subsequent Reign of Terror, and the eventual rise of Napoleon's autocratic regime. These events, and the disagreements which arose regarding them within the Whig party, led to its breakup and to the rupture of Burke's friendship with Fox. In 1791 Burke published his Appeal from the New to the Old Whigs, in which he renewed his criticism of the radical revolutionary programs inspired by the French Revolution and attacked the Whigs who supported them. Eventually most of the Whigs sided with Burke and voted their support for the conservative government of Prime Minister William Pitt the Younger, which declared war on the revolutionary government of France in 1793. In 1794 Burke was devastated by the loss of his son Richard, of whom he was very fond. In the same year the Hastings trial came to an end. Burke, feeling that his work was done and that he was worn out, took leave of Parliament. The King, whose favor he had gained by his attitude towards the French Revolution, wished to make him Lord Beaconsfield, but the death of his son had deprived such an honor of all its attractions, and the only reward he would accept was a pension of £2,500. Even this modest reward was criticized by the Duke of Bedford and the Earl of Lauderdale, to whom Burke made a crushing reply in the Letter to a Noble Lord (1796). His last publications were the Letters on a Regicide Peace (1796), in response to the negotiations for peace with France. Burke died in Beaconsfield, Buckinghamshire on July 9, 1797. Influence and reputation | "On the one hand [Burke] is revealed as a foremost apostle of Liberty, on the other as the redoubtable champion of Authority. But a charge of political inconsistency applied to this life appears a mean and petty thing. History easily discerns the reasons and forces which actuated him, and the immense changes in the problems he was facing which evoked from the same profound mind and sincere spirit these entirely contrary manifestations. His soul revolted against tyranny, whether it appeared in the aspect of a domineering Monarch and a corrupt Court and Parliamentary system, or whether, mouthing the watch-words of a non-existent liberty, it towered up against him in the dictation of a brutal mob and wicked sect. No one can read the Burke of Liberty and the Burke of Authority without feeling that here was the same man pursuing the same ends, seeking the same ideals of society and Government, and defending them from assaults, now from one extreme, now from the other." | | Winston Churchill, Consistency in Politics | Burke's Reflections on the Revolution in France was extremely controversial at the time of its publication. Its intemperate language and factual inaccuracies even convinced many readers that Burke had lost his judgment. But as the subsequent violence and chaos in France vindicated much of Burke's assessment, it grew to become his best-known and most influential work. In the English-speaking world, Burke is often regarded as one of the fathers of modern conservatism, and his thinking has exerted considerable influence over the political philosophy of such classical liberals as Friedrich Hayek and Karl Popper. Burke's "liberal" conservatism, which opposes the implementation of drastic theoretical plans for radical political change but recognizes the necessity of gradual reform, must not be confused with the autocratic conservatism of such anti-revolutionary Continental figures as Joseph de Maistre. Adam Smith remarked that "Burke is the only man I ever knew who thinks on economic subjects exactly as I do without any previous communication having passed between us." The Liberal historian Lord John Dalberg-Acton considered Burke one of the three greatest liberals, along with William Ewart Gladstone and Thomas Babington Macaulay. Two contrasting assessments of Burke were offered long after his death by Karl Marx and Winston Churchill. | ”The sycophant—who in the pay of the English oligarchy played the romantic "laudator temporis acti" against the French Revolution just as, in the pay of the North American colonies at the beginning of the American troubles, he had played the liberal against the English oligarchy—was an out-and-out vulgar bourgeois.” | | Karl Marx, Das Kapital | Though still controversial, Burke is today widely regarded as one of the major political thinkers of the English-speaking world. His writings, like his speeches, are characterized by their synthesis of knowledge, thought, and feeling. He was more successful as a writer than he was as a speaker. He often rose too far above the heads of his audience, who were eventually wearied, and even disgusted, by the continued splendor of his declamation, his inordinate copiousness, and his excessive vehemence, which often passed into fury. Burke was known as the "Dinner Bell" to his contemporaries because Members of Parliament would leave the chamber to look for dinner when he rose to speak. But his writings contain some of the grandest examples of a fervid and richly elaborated eloquence. Though he was never admitted to the Cabinet, he guided and strongly influenced the policy of his party. His efforts in the direction of economy and order in administration at home, and on behalf of a more just government in America, India, and Ireland, as well as his contributions to political philosophy, constitute his most significant legacy. Burke is the namesake of a variety of prominent associations and societies, including The Antient and Honourable Edmund Burke Society at the University of Chicago. | Preceded by: Richard Rigby | Paymaster of the Forces 1782 | Succeeded by: Isaac Barré | | Preceded by: Isaac Barré | Paymaster of the Forces 1783–1784 | Succeeded by: William Wyndham Grenville | Speeches Burke made several famous speeches while serving in the British House of Commons: - On American Taxation (1774): "Whether you were right or wrong in establishing the Colonies on the principles of commercial monopoly, rather than on that of revenue, is at this day a problem of mere speculation. You cannot have both by the same authority. To join together the restraints of an universal internal and external monopoly, with an universal internal and external taxation, is an unnatural union; perfect uncompensated slavery." - On Conciliation with America[2] (1775): "The proposition is peace. Not peace through the medium of war; not peace to be hunted through the labyrinth of intricate and endless negotiations; not peace to arise out of universal discord fomented, from principle, in all parts of the Empire, not peace to depend on the juridical determination of perplexing questions, or the precise marking [of] the shadowy boundaries of a complex government. It is simple peace; sought in its natural course, and in its ordinary haunts. It is peace sought in the spirit of peace, and laid in principles purely pacific…" Writings - A Vindication of Natural Society: A View of the Miseries and Evils Arising to Mankind 1756 (Liberty Fund, 1982, ISBN 0865970092). This article, outlining radical political theory, was first published anonymously and, when Burke was revealed as its author, he explained that it was a satire. The consensus of historians is that this is correct. An alternate theory, proposed by Murray Rothbard, argues that Burke wrote the Vindication in earnest but later wished to disavow it for political reasons. - A Philosophical Enquiry into the Origin of Our Ideas of the Sublime and Beautiful 1757, begun when he was nineteen and published when he was twenty-seven. (Oxford University Press, 1998, ISBN 0192835807). - Reflections on the Revolution in France 1790 (Oxford University Press, 1999, ISBN 0192839780). Burke's criticisms of the French Revolution and its connection to Rousseau's philosophy, made before the revolution was radicalized, predicted that it would fall into terror, tyranny, and misrule. Burke, a supporter of the American Revolution, wrote the Reflections in response to a young correspondent who mistakenly assumed that he would support the French Revolution as well. It was addressed to an anonymous French nobleman whose identity has been the subject of many rumors. Thomas Copeland, editor of Burke's Correspondence, put forth a compelling argument that the recipient was in fact Victor Marie du Pont. (Victor's brother was Eleuthère Irénée du Pont, founder of the E.I. duPont de Nemours Company.) Quotes - "Manners are of more importance than laws… Manners are what vex or soothe, corrupt or purify, exalt or debase, barbarize or refine us, by a constant, steady, uniform, insensible operation like that of the air we breathe in."[3] The statement that "The only thing necessary for the triumph of evil is for good men to do nothing" is often attributed to Burke. Although it has not been found in his speeches, writings, or letters (and is thus apocryphal), in 1770 he wrote in Thoughts on the Cause of the Present Discontents that "when bad men combine, the good must associate; else they will fall, one by one, an unpitied sacrifice in a contemptible struggle." John Stuart Mill made a similar statement in an inaugural address delivered to the University of St. Andrews in 1867: "Bad men need nothing more to compass their ends, than that good men should look on and do nothing." Notes - ↑ Thoughts on the Cause of the Present Discontents. Retrieved October 29, 2008. - ↑ On Conciliation with America. Retrieved November 4, 2008. - ↑ Edmund Burke, Letters on a Regicide Peace (Liberty Fund Inc., 1999, ISBN 978-0865971677). ReferencesISBN links support NWE through referral fees - Burke, Edmund. Letters on a Regicide Peace. Liberty Fund Inc., 1999. ISBN 978-0865971677 - Cousin, John W. Short Biographical Dictionary of English Literature. Kessinger Publishing, 2003. ISBN 0766143481 - Dickson, David. New Foundations of Ireland: 1660–1800. Irish Academic Press, 1999. ISBN 0716526379 - Kirk, Russell. The Conservative Mind: From Burke to Eliot. Regnery Publishing, Inc., 2001. ISBN 0895261715 - Muller, Jerry Z. The Mind and the Market: Capitalism in Western Thought. Anchor Books, 2002. ISBN 0385721668 - O'Brien, Conor Cruise. The Great Melody: A Thematic Biography of Edmund Burke. University of Chicago Press, 1994. ISBN 0226616517 External links All links retrieved February 12, 2024. - Project Gutenberg, Edmund Burke, including his collected works in 12 volumes. - Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy entry. General Philosophy Sources - Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy. - The Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy. - Paideia Project Online. - Project Gutenberg. Credits New World Encyclopedia writers and editors rewrote and completed the Wikipedia article in accordance with New World Encyclopedia standards. This article abides by terms of the Creative Commons CC-by-sa 3.0 License (CC-by-sa), which may be used and disseminated with proper attribution. Credit is due under the terms of this license that can reference both the New World Encyclopedia contributors and the selfless volunteer contributors of the Wikimedia Foundation. To cite this article click here for a list of acceptable citing formats.The history of earlier contributions by wikipedians is accessible to researchers here: The history of this article since it was imported to New World Encyclopedia: Note: Some restrictions may apply to use of individual images which are separately licensed.


--- [BBC - History - Edmund Burke] ---
Burke was a hugely influential Anglo-Irish politician, orator and political thinker, notable for his strong support for the American Revolution and his fierce opposition to the French Revolution. Edmund Burke was born in Dublin on 12 January 1729, the son of a solicitor. He was educated at Trinity College, Dublin and then went to London to study law. He quickly gave this up and after a visit to Europe settled in London, concentrating on a literary and political career. He became a member of parliament in 1765. He was closely involved in debates over limits to the power of the king, pressing for parliamentary control of royal patronage and expenditure. Britain's imposition on America of measures including the Stamp Act in 1765 provoked violent colonial opposition. Burke argued that British policy had been inflexible and called for more pragmatism. He believed that government should be a cooperative relationship between rulers and subjects and that, while the past was important, a willingness to adapt to the inevitability of change could, hopefully, reaffirm traditional values under new circumstances. He also maintained a keen interest in India. He concluded that Indian governmental corruption had to be resolved by removing patronage from interested parties. He proposed that India be governed by independent commissioners in London, but a bill to this end was defeated, prompting impeachment proceedings against Warren Hastings, the governor-general of Bengal. The outbreak of the French Revolution in 1789 gave Burke his greatest target. He expressed his hostility in 'Reflections on the Revolution in France' (1790). The book provoked a huge response, including Thomas Paine's 'The Rights of Man'. Burke emphasised the dangers of mob rule, fearing that the Revolution's fervour was destroying French society. He appealed to the British virtues of continuity, tradition, rank and property and opposed the Revolution to the end of his life. Burke retired from parliament in 1794. His last years were clouded by the death of his only son, but he continued to write and defend himself from his critics. His arguments for long-lived constitutional conventions, political parties, and the independence of an MP once elected still carry weight. He is justly regarded as one of the founders of the British Conservative tradition. He died on 9 July 1797. BBC © 2014 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.
