=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[JK Tyre National Karting Championship]
Once karting was established, JK Tyre took another leap forward and in 2005, introduced two-stroke Rotax Kart engines and launched the JK Tyre National Rotax Max Karting Championship.
URL: https://www.jktyremotorsport.com/karting

[JK Tyre pulls out of National Karting Championship]
Apr 11, 2017 · JK Tyre played a pivotal role in bringing karting to India, with the inaugural four-stroke karting championship instated in the year 2000. Karun Chandhok, Armaan Ebrahim and Aditya Patel...
URL: https://www.autocarindia.com/motor-sports-news/jk-tyres-404660

[Dummy's guide to JK Tyre Go-Karting Championship]
Sep 25, 2016 — JK Tyre started the Rotax Max Karting Championship in 2005 with an aim to produce professional racers from India who can compete in global ...
URL: https://www.indiatoday.in/sports/other-sports/story/jk-tyre-go-karting-championship-dummys-guide-343097-2016-09-25

[MECO FMSCI ROTAX MAX National karting Championship]
The National Rotax Karting Championship was introduced in 2004 by MECO Motorsports as the Promoter and Organizer. The Championship has been running for the last 12 years in succession and is India’s premium National Karting Championship.
URL: https://mecomotorsports.co.in/Events

[10th JK Tyre-FMSCI National Rotax Max Karting Championship 2013 ...]
Jun 14, 2013 — The opening round of the 2013 championship will get underway on Saturday, June 15, 2013 at the Kart Centre at Lahari Resorts, Hyderabad. The 650 ...
URL: https://www.motoroids.com/news/10th-jk-tyre-fmsci-national-rotax-max-karting-championship-2013-kick-starts-in-hyderabad/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [JK Tyre National Karting Championship] ---
The JK Tyre National Karting Championship offered a real boost to the efforts the company undertook in taking the sport to the masses. The company introduced the discipline in 1997 and patronized tracks in seven cities across India and thereafter developed a karting series in 2000. The introduction 4-stroke karting in the same year marked a historic moment for motorsport with the explicit objective of infusing young talent into the sport. Starting out with four-stroke karts for beginners, the concept of regional rounds culminating in the National Go Karting Championship was introduced for the first time in the country. Once karting was established, JK Tyre took another leap forward and in 2005, introduced two-stroke Rotax Kart engines and launched the JK Tyre National Rotax Max Karting Championship. The winners of the JK Tyre Rotax Max National Karting Championship are selected to represent the country at the Rotax Max World Finals held every year. Drivers like Rayomand Banajee, Aditya Patel, Vishnu Prasad, Parth Ghorpade, Raj Bharath, Jehan Daruvala and Arjun Maini have represented the country on the international stage through this route. Keeping in tune with its philosophy of developing the sport at the grassroots level, the karting series in the country evolved into a competition with a three-tier structure. The series comprising a senior category for the age group of 14 years & above, a junior class for 12-14 year olds in 2-stroke Rotax karts and a micro series for drivers between the ages of 8-12 in four-stroke karts, all sponsored by JK Tyre has become the pipeline for supplying drivers for higher forms of domestic racing.


--- [JK Tyre pulls out of National Karting Championship] ---
In what can be termed as a massive surprise for the Indian motorsport community, JK Tyre has given up the title sponsorship mantle for the National Rotax Max Karting Championship this season after 13 years in the sport. JK Tyre played a pivotal role in bringing karting to India, with the inaugural four-stroke karting championship instated in the year 2000. Karun Chandhok, Armaan Ebrahim and Aditya Patel were among the early prodigies. Competitive two-stroke karting followed a few years later in 2004 with the National Rotax Max Championship kicking off after completion of the Kari Motor Speedway in Coimbatore; it featured a karting loop and allowed powerful Rotax machinery to unleash its full potential. Even though it was impossible to match four-stroke karting on the affordability front, Rotax offered graduates from the four-stroke programme a shot at experiencing world-class machinery. However, even though Rotax karts were the foundation for racers to come, the series was never accorded championship status by the MAI, the motorsport federation in power at the time. It was only when the dust settled in 2009 with FIA vesting powers in the FMSCI that Rotax was declared a national championship. With JK withdrawing its support, it is now up to Meco Motorsport and Akbar Ebrahim to ensure that karting continues to flourish in India and young drivers have a platform to get their foot into the sport as early as age 8. Drivers like Arjun Maini and Jehan Daruvala who are doing well in international single-seater championships like GP3 and Formula 3 respectively, along with 12-year old Shahan Ali Mohsin, who won the Asia Max Karting title last year and has graduated to European Karting this year, all took their first steps in competition in the National Rotax Max Championship. Ebrahim has announced grand plans for the championships via Facebook, with at least five different karting championships and formats to look forward to this season. We hope that the Indian karting continues to grow and bring forth the next big talents from the country.


--- [Dummy's guide to JK Tyre Go-Karting Championship] ---
Dummy's guide to JK Tyre Go-Karting Championship JK Tyre, India's leading tyre manufacturing company, is taking motorsports in the country to an all new level with its annual Rotax Max Karting Championship. It's fast, it's furious and it has got everything a motorsport fan likes to see. The JK Tyre Rotax Max Championship is the stepping stone for young and budding racers who want to make it to the big boys' league - the Formula Racing category. The likes of Narain Karthikeyan, Karun Chandhok and Armaan Ebrahim all started their careers with Go-Karting and have raced in the JK Tyre National Rotax Max Karting Championships. They have then moved on to achieve greater heights and put India on the map of motorsports. Karting is the real deal and fortunately in our country it's in the right hands of JK Tyre. Star racers like Ricky Donison, Manav Sharma and child protege Shahan Ali Mohsin are going to be future flag bearers of the country in motorsports. You have to see them race to believe the exceptional talent and skill they have. The speed, the thrill and the adrenaline is unbelievable at times. The Rotax Max Karting Championship is a delight for motor racing enthusiasts but for those who haven't seen or heard about it before, here is a 10-point guide for the first-timers. 1. JK Tyre started the Rotax Max Karting Championship in 2005 with an aim to produce professional racers from India who can compete in global events and hopefully make it to Formula One one day. 2. The racing event is divided into three categories - Micro Max, Junior Class and Senior Class. Micro Max involves kids aged between 7-12 years, Junior Class kids are aged between 13-16 years and the Senior Class has kids above 15 years of age competing in it. 3. Seven teams participated in this year's event - Meco Racing, Mohite Racing, Rayo Racing, Birel Art, BPC Racing, Peregrine Racing and Erda's Racing. 4. The fifth and final round of the Rotax Max Karting Championship this year was held at the Mohite's Racing Academy circuit in Kolhapur. 5. The track in Kolhapur is 1.4 Kms long and the drivers go around it anti-clockwise. The 22-lap race consists of high-adrenaline action with the karts skidding and often crashing into each other. 6. Micro Max category karts are powered by a 6KW 8HP engine which produces 9Nm of torque at 6000rpm. The total weight of the driver and the kart cannot exceed 108kgs. 7. Junior Max category karts are powered by a 17KW 23HP engine which produces 19Nm of torque at 8500rpm. The total weight of the driver and the kart cannot exceed 145kgs. 8. Senior Max category karts are powered by a 22KW 30HP engine which produces 21Nm of torque at 9000rpm. The total weight of the driver and the kart cannot exceed 165kgs. 9. The overall champions in the Junior and Senior Max categories will get a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to represent India at the World Karting finals which will be held in Portugal in November this year. The top three overall winners also get fully sponsored drives in the JK Racing India Series which is a premier category in the JK Tyre Racing Championship. 10. Shahan Ali Mohsin (Micro Max), Manav Sharma (Junior Max) and Ricky Donison (Senior Max) clinched the Max Karting Championship titles this season.


--- [MECO FMSCI ROTAX MAX National karting Championship] ---
No content


--- [10th JK Tyre-FMSCI National Rotax Max Karting Championship 2013 ...] ---
Popular motorsport event for young racing enthusiasts, the JK Tyre FMSCI National Rotax Max Karting Championship, is back. The opening round of the 2013 championship will get underway on Saturday, June 15, 2013 at the Kart Centre at Lahari Resorts, Hyderabad. The 650 meters long Kart Centre was inaugurated in 2012 and has provided great racing and high octane action in all Karting categories. More than 45 drivers, including country’s top Karters and new entrants, will be seen battling across three categories that include Micro Max (7 to 12 years), Junior Max (13 to 16 years) and Senior Max (15 and above). The Championship, spread over five rounds will be held at Karting tracks in Hyderabad, Coimbatore & Bangalore. In addition to Mohites Racing, Rayo Racing and Meco Racing, the 2013 season will also witness the debut of two new Karting teams – Chennai’s Dark Don Racing and Bangalore-based India Karting. While Bangalore based Team India karting is a new entrant, Team Dark Don Racing has already proved its mettle in racing and were crowned Champions in the JK Tyre National Racing Championship 2012. The event will begin with official practice for the three categories on Saturday, June 15. This will be followed by qualifying, starting at 11:45am on the same day. Heat 1 and 2, and the main races will be held on Sunday, June 16. The Championship will feature well-known names on the Indian Karting circuit such as Kush Maini, Yash Aradhaya, Nayan Chatterjee, Tejas Chandrashekar and Abhirath Shetty and Vishnu Prasad, Chittesh Mandody, and Akhil Rabindra as well as last year’s defending champions Pradyumn V Danigond, Krishnaraj Mahadik and Ameya Bafna. The winners of the JK Tyre National Rotax Max Karting Championship 2013 will get an opportunity to represent the country at the 2013 Rotax Grand Finals in USA. Mr. Sanjay Sharma, Head – Motorsport, JK Tyre & Industries Limited, said, “Now in its 10th year, the National Karting Championship is a proven springboard for young contenders who want to make a name for themselves in the highly competitive world of professional motorsport. JK Tyre is proud to be supporting this endeavour for the last decade, during which it has grown from strength to strength and is at par with international kart racing.”
