=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Dangerously in Love - Wikipedia]
Dangerously in Love is the debut solo studio album by the American singer-songwriter Beyoncé. It was released on June 20, 2003, by Columbia Records and Music World Entertainment. The album features guest appearances from Beyoncé's then-boyfriend Jay-Z, alongside Missy Elliott, Sean Paul, Big Boi of Outkast, Sleepy Brown, and Luther Vandross, with international editions including vocals from ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dangerously_in_Love

[Dangerously in Love | Beyoncépedia Wiki | Fandom]
"Dangerously in Love" is the debut solo studio album by Beyoncé. It was released on June 20, 2003, by Columbia Records and Music World Entertainment. Beyoncé launched her career as the lead singer in the R&B girl group Destiny's Child in the late 1990s. According to Corey Moss of MTV News, "fans [were] eager to see" how Beyoncé, after years with the group, performs solo. While recording ...
URL: https://beypedia.fandom.com/wiki/Dangerously_in_Love

[Dangerously In Love - Album by Beyoncé - YouTube Music]
Recording sessions for Dangerously in Love took place from March 2002 to March 2003 at various recording studios, during the group's hiatus. As the executive producer of the album, Beyoncé took a wider role in its production, co-writing a majority of the songs, choosing which ones to produce and sharing ideas on mixing and mastering.
URL: https://music.youtube.com/playlist?list=OLAK5uy_n88fgxyMntCt2xS7QZBgYH_jg00kmzPgk

[Dangerously in Love 2]
Though not released as a single, "Dangerously in Love 2" charted at number 57 the US Billboard Hot 100 chart and at number 17 on the Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Songs chart ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dangerously_in_Love_2

[Beyoncé - Dangerously in Love Lyrics and Tracklist | Genius]
Jun 17, 2003 · Serving as her debut album as a solo artist, 2003’s Dangerously in Love confirmed that Beyoncé would be one of the great pop and R&B icons of her generation. She handpicked all the ...
URL: https://genius.com/albums/Beyonce/Dangerously-in-love


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Dangerously in Love - Wikipedia] ---
Dangerously in Love is the debut solo studio album by the American singer-songwriter Beyoncé. It was released on June 20, 2003, by Columbia Records and Music World Entertainment. The album features guest appearances from Beyoncé's then-boyfriend Jay-Z, alongside Missy Elliott, Sean Paul, Big Boi of Outkast, Sleepy Brown, and Luther Vandross, with international editions including vocals from Vanness Wu and IAM. Musically, the album is a mixture of uptempo tracks and ballads, all of which are primarily R&B songs, while also incorporating elements of soul, hip-hop and Arabic music.
During the recording of Destiny's Child's third studio album Survivor (2001), the group announced that each member would produce solo albums. Recording sessions for Dangerously in Love took place from March 2002 to March 2003 at various recording studios, during the group's hiatus. As the executive producer of the album, Beyoncé took a wider role in its production, co-writing a majority of the songs, choosing which ones to produce and sharing ideas on mixing and mastering. Although she remained discreet about her interpretation of the album's songs, their underlying meanings were attributed by media outlets as an allusion to her intimate relationship with rapper, Jay-Z.
Upon its release, Dangerously in Love received mixed reviews from music critics but was an commercial success, with the album debuting atop the US Billboard 200 with sales of 317,000 copies in its first week. At the 46th Annual Grammy Awards (2004), the album and its songs won five awards, including Best Contemporary R&B Album; Beyoncé consequently tied with Lauryn Hill, Alicia Keys and Norah Jones for the record of most Grammy Awards won by a woman at a single ceremony. Dangerously in Love has been certified septuple platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) and, as of 2011, has sold over 11 million copies worldwide, making it one of the best-selling albums of the 21st century.
Dangerously in Love produced four singles. "Crazy in Love" spent eight consecutive weeks atop the US Billboard Hot 100, reaching the top ten almost everywhere it charted and winning two Grammy Awards. "Baby Boy" replicated the international commercial success of "Crazy in Love" while outlasting it atop the Billboard Hot 100 by one week. "Me, Myself and I" peaked at number four on the Billboard Hot 100 while attaining lower peaks than its predecessors internationally. "Naughty Girl" peaked at number three on the Billboard Hot 100 and within the top ten in several additional countries. The final single was a cover of Donny Hathaway and Roberta Flack's "The Closer I Get to You", sung by Beyoncé and Luther Vandross. Beyoncé promoted the album via numerous live performances and two concert tours—Dangerously in Love Tour (2003) and Verizon Ladies First Tour (2004), the latter of which was co-headlined with Alicia Keys and Elliott, while the former produced the live album Live at Wembley (2004).


--- [Dangerously in Love | Beyoncépedia Wiki | Fandom] ---
No content


--- [Dangerously In Love - Album by Beyoncé - YouTube Music] ---
- EnglishUnited States - Deutsch - English - Español - Français - Italiano - All languages - Afrikaans - azərbaycan - bosanski - català - Čeština - Cymraeg - Dansk - Deutsch - eesti - EnglishUnited Kingdom - EspañolEspaña - EspañolLatinoamérica - euskara - Filipino - FrançaisCanada - FrançaisFrance - Gaeilge - galego - Hrvatski - Indonesia - isiZulu - íslenska - Italiano - Kiswahili - latviešu - lietuvių - magyar - Melayu - Nederlands - norsk - o‘zbek - polski - PortuguêsBrasil - PortuguêsPortugal - română - shqip - Slovenčina - slovenščina - srpski (latinica) - Suomi - Svenska - Tiếng Việt - Türkçe - Ελληνικά - беларуская - български - кыргызча - қазақ тілі - македонски - монгол - Русский - српски - Українська - ქართული - հայերեն - עברית - اردو - العربية - فارسی - አማርኛ - नेपाली - मराठी - हिन्दी - অসমীয়া - বাংলা - ਪੰਜਾਬੀ - ગુજરાતી - ଓଡ଼ିଆ - தமிழ் - తెలుగు - ಕನ್ನಡ - മലയാളം - සිංහල - ไทย - ລາວ - မြန်မာ - ខ្មែរ - 한국어 - 日本語 - 简体中文 - 繁體中文 - 繁體中文香港 - EnglishUnited States - Deutsch - English - Español - Français - Italiano - All languages - Afrikaans - azərbaycan - bosanski - català - Čeština - Cymraeg - Dansk - Deutsch - eesti - EnglishUnited Kingdom - EspañolEspaña - EspañolLatinoamérica - euskara - Filipino - FrançaisCanada - FrançaisFrance - Gaeilge - galego - Hrvatski - Indonesia - isiZulu - íslenska - Italiano - Kiswahili - latviešu - lietuvių - magyar - Melayu - Nederlands - norsk - o‘zbek - polski - PortuguêsBrasil - PortuguêsPortugal - română - shqip - Slovenčina - slovenščina - srpski (latinica) - Suomi - Svenska - Tiếng Việt - Türkçe - Ελληνικά - беларуская - български - кыргызча - қазақ тілі - македонски - монгол - Русский - српски - Українська - ქართული - հայերեն - עברית - اردو - العربية - فارسی - አማርኛ - नेपाली - मराठी - हिन्दी - অসমীয়া - বাংলা - ਪੰਜਾਬੀ - ગુજરાતી - ଓଡ଼ିଆ - தமிழ் - తెలుగు - ಕನ್ನಡ - മലയാളം - සිංහල - ไทย - ລາວ - မြန်မာ - ខ្មែរ - 한국어 - 日本語 - 简体中文 - 繁體中文 - 繁體中文香港 Before you continue to YouTube We use cookies and data to - Deliver and maintain Google services - Track outages and protect against spam, fraud, and abuse - Measure audience engagement and site statistics to understand how our services are used and enhance the quality of those services If you choose to “Accept all,” we will also use cookies and data to - Develop and improve new services - Deliver and measure the effectiveness of ads - Show personalized content, depending on your settings - Show personalized ads, depending on your settings If you choose to “Reject all,” we will not use cookies for these additional purposes. Non-personalized content and ads are influenced by things like the content you’re currently viewing and your location (ad serving is based on general location). Personalized content and ads can also include things like video recommendations, a customized YouTube homepage, and tailored ads based on past activity, like the videos you watch and the things you search for on YouTube. We also use cookies and data to tailor the experience to be age-appropriate, if relevant. Select “More options” to see additional information, including details about managing your privacy settings. You can also visit g.co/privacytools at any time.


--- [Dangerously in Love 2] ---
"Dangerously in Love 2" is a song written and produced by Beyoncé and Errol McCalla, Jr. The ballad was first recorded by Destiny's Child for their third studio album Survivor (2001), under the title "Dangerously in Love". The song later became the title track to Destiny's Child member Beyoncé's debut studio album, Dangerously in Love (2003), with some minor adjustments instrumentally. Both were recorded at SugarHill Recording Studios, based in Houston, Texas. The original version was recorded in 2000, while the sequel was recorded from 2000 to 2002. "Dangerously in Love" and "Dangerously in Love 2" are R&B ballads, the lyrics of which detail romantic obsession.
"Dangerously in Love 2" received generally positive response from music critics, who wrote that the song effectively shows the vocal capabilities of Beyoncé. It won a Grammy Award for Best Female R&B Vocal Performance at the 46th Annual Grammy Awards. Though not released as a single, "Dangerously in Love 2" charted at number 57 the US Billboard Hot 100 chart and at number 17 on the Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Songs chart. Beyoncé performed the ballad at the 46th Grammy Awards, the Verizon Ladies First Tour, the Dangerously in Love Tour, The Beyoncé Experience and as the opening song of her Renaissance World Tour.


--- [Beyoncé - Dangerously in Love Lyrics and Tracklist | Genius] ---
Serving as her debut album as a solo artist, 2003’s Dangerously in Love confirmed that Beyoncé would be one of the great pop and R&B icons of her generation. She handpicked all the collaborators and producers on the album, co-wrote and co-produced all but one track on the album (a cover, “The Closer I Get to You”) and was present for every stage of the production, a role she did not normally fill as the lead singer of pop supergroup Destiny’s Child. As noted on Wikipedia: Beyoncé felt that recording an album without her group mates was “liberating and therapeutic”, coming into the studio and freely expressing her ideas with her collaborators. The dependency she developed with Destiny’s Child, however, meant it was harder “to be on [her] own creatively”. Dangerously in Love was preceded by severely heavy promotion in the face of many obstacles. Knowles faced the challenges of her label’s disapproval of the progress of the project. While Columbia Records commissioned her to produce a solo project in 2001, her Destiny’s Child counterparts Michelle Williams and Kelly Rowland had already done so by 2002. She took her time with the album while appearing in the films Austin Powers in Goldmember and The Fighting Temptations. Originally slated for an October 2002 release, Dangerously in Love was held off because of the unexpected and continued success of Kelly’s duet with Nelly, “Dilemma”, and would take at least 3 more pushbacks afterwards as Rowland’s album and Michelle’s work garnered the focus of Columbia. Each time Knowles returned to the studio and produced more material, comprising 50 completed tracks by time’s end. The track that would become the title of the album, “Dangerously in Love 2”, is simply a remix of a 2001 Destiny’s Child song of the same name and wasn’t added until March 2003, because Beyoncé felt it represented the overall theme of the project. The album was then released 2 weeks early to counter bootlegged releases of mutiple tracks. “Sexy Lil' Thug”, A remix of 50 Cent’s “In Da Club” and Bey’s disco-channeling “Work It Out” from Austin Powers didn’t generate enough ‘buzz’ for the label to progress with the project. With all this, the future Queen Bey would find worldwide acclaim with the release of “Crazy in Love”, featuring not-so-secret boyfriend and rapper Jay-Z, as the lead single in April 2003. Finally released on June 22, 2003, Dangerously in Love debuted at number one on the Billboard, making Knowles an instant superstar. The debut album charted in 21 other regions, won 5 Grammy Awards, and has certifications from “Gold” to “Triple Platinum” in 22 different countries with 16,000,000 recognized sales. “Baby Boy”, “Me, Myself and I”, and “Naughty Girl” subsequently garnered record-scorching sucess and near universal critical acclaim. A star-studded pay-per-view debut concert, the Dangerously in Love Tour in Europe, and the Verizon Ladies First Tour with Alicia Keys and Missy Elliott, and appearances on Saturday Night Live, The Today Show, and The Late Show with David Letterman among others solidified a strong charting performance for the long-labored project and Beyonce’s power as a solo artist and live performer. As she later reflected, In 2003, I had my first solo album. But when I played it through for my record label, they told me I didn’t have one hit on my album. I guess they were kinda right…I had five. There were 5 bonus tracks across different markets: There were also several other tracks recorded for the album available on various international album and single promos: On December 17, 2024, Dangerously in Love was certified 7x multi-platinum by the RIAA.
