=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[William II of Holland - Wikipedia]
William II (February 1227 - 28 January 1256) was the Count of Holland and Zeeland from 1234 until his death. He was elected anti-king of Germany in 1248 and ruled as sole king from 1254 onwards.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/William_II_of_Holland

[William | King of Prussia, Hohenzollern, Elector | Britannica]
William (born 1228—died Jan. 28, 1256, near Hoogwoude, Holland) was a German king from Oct. 3, 1247, elected by the papal party in Germany as antiking in opposition to Conrad IV and subsequently gaining general recognition. As William II, he was also count of Holland, succeeding his father, Count Floris IV, in 1234.
URL: https://www.britannica.com/biography/William-king-of-Germany

[William II of the Netherlands]
With the abdication of his father on 7 October 1840, William II became king. ... When William was two, he and his family fled to England after allied ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/William_II_of_the_Netherlands

[William II Count of Holland and King of Germany]
3 William II of Holland (February 1228 - 28 January 1256) was a Count of Holland and Zeeland (1235-1256). He was elected as German anti-king in 1247 and remained king until his death.
URL: https://www.ccsnyder.com/clan/snyder/family/report/ps44/ps44_063.htm

[Wilhelm II]
In March 1890, the young Kaiser dismissed longtime Chancellor Otto von Bismarck and assumed direct control over his nation's policies, embarking on a "New ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wilhelm_II


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [William II of Holland - Wikipedia] ---
William II (February 1227 – 28 January 1256) was the Count of Holland and Zeeland from 1234 until his death. He was elected anti-king of Germany in 1248 and ruled as sole king from 1254 onwards.


--- [William | King of Prussia, Hohenzollern, Elector | Britannica] ---
William William (born 1228—died Jan. 28, 1256, near Hoogwoude, Holland) was a German king from Oct. 3, 1247, elected by the papal party in Germany as antiking in opposition to Conrad IV and subsequently gaining general recognition. As William II, he was also count of Holland, succeeding his father, Count Floris IV, in 1234. William was elected German king to succeed Henry Raspe (died Feb. 16, 1247), Pope Innocent IV’s nominee to replace Conrad, whom the Pope had declared deposed in 1245. Although crowned at Aachen on Nov. l, 1248, William was king of a minority of the German states until King Conrad decided, late in 1251, to leave Germany for Italy (where he became king of Sicily). On March 25, 1252, William was recognized as king by Albert, duke of Saxony, and by John and Otto, margraves of Brandenburg; further support came in 1254, from the Rhenish League of Cities. William’s growing strength in the Rhineland caused Archbishop Conrad of Cologne (who had crowned him) to plan his deposition in favour of Otakar II of Bohemia. That conspiracy (late 1254) was checked by Pope Alexander IV. - Also called: - William Of Holland - German: - Wilhelm Von Holland - Born: - 1228 - Died: - Jan. 28, 1256, near Hoogwoude, Holland (aged 28) - House / Dynasty: - Hohenstaufen dynasty As count of Holland, William promoted the urban development of Haarlem, Delft, Middelburg, and Alkmaar, all of which became trading centres. While trying to secure his rule over the Frisians, he was killed in battle.


--- [William II of the Netherlands] ---
William II (Dutch: Willem II, French: Guillaume II; 6 December 1792 – 17 March 1849) was King of the Netherlands, Grand Duke of Luxembourg, and Duke of Limburg. He reigned for nearly nine years, making him the shortest-reigning monarch in Dutch history.
William II was the son of William I and Wilhelmine of Prussia. When his father, who up to that time ruled as sovereign prince, proclaimed himself king in 1815, he became Prince of Orange as heir apparent of the United Kingdom of the Netherlands. With the abdication of his father on 7 October 1840, William II became king. During his reign, the Netherlands became a parliamentary democracy with the new new constitution of 1848. William II was married to Anna Pavlovna of Russia, with whom he had five children. William II was succeeded by his son William III.


--- [William II Count of Holland and King of Germany] ---
3William II of Holland (February 1228 – 28 January 1256) was a Count of Holland and Zeeland (1235–1256). He was elected as German anti-king in 1247 and remained king until his death. He was the son of Floris IV and Mathilde of Brabant. When his father was killed at a tournament at Corbie, William was only seven years old. His uncles William and Otto ( bishop of Utrecht) were his guardians until 1239. Count Willem II of Holland Granting Privileges by Caesar van Everdingen (1654) With the help of Henry II, Duke of Brabant and the archbishop of Cologne, he was elected in 1247 as king of Germany after Emperor Frederick II was excommunicated. After a siege of five months, he took Aachen in 1248 from Frederick's followers. Only then could he be crowned as king. He gained a certain amount of theoretical support from some of the German princes after his marriage to Elizabeth, daughter of Otto the Child, Duke of Brunswick-Lüneburg, in 1252; but, although "William lacked neither courage nor chivalrous qualities (...) his power never extended beyond the Rhine country." [1]In his home county, William fought with Flanders for control of Zeeland. He made himself (being king of Germany) count of Zeeland. In July 1253, he defeated the Flemish army at Westkapelle, and a year later a cease-fire followed. His anti-Flemish policy worsened his relationship with France. From 1254, he fought a number of wars against the West Frisians. He build some strong castles in Heemskerk and Haarlem and created roads for the war against the Frisians. Melis Stoke, a scribe employed by William's son Floris of Holland wrote the following about his death. In battle near Hoogwoud on 28 January 1256, William tried to traverse a frozen lake (by himself, because he was lost), but his horse fell through the ice. In this vulnerable position, William was killed by the Frisians, who secretly buried him under the floor of a house. His body was (forcefully) recovered 26 years later by his son Floris V, who was only 2 years old when he succeeded his father. William was then buried in Middelburg. Independent chronicles confirm his death at that time (by failing to jump over a muddy water way during a skirmish). Much of Stoke's writing may have been to justify his employer's deeds and his claim on current-day West Frisia, so that the details of the mishap and subsequent events could be largely legendary [2]. William gave city rights to Haarlem, Delft, 's-Gravenzande and Alkmaar. A castle he had built in 1248 was the beginning of the city of The Hague.


--- [Wilhelm II] ---
Wilhelm II (English: Frederick William Victor Albert; German: Friedrich Wilhelm Viktor Albert; 27 January 1859 – 4 June 1941) was the last German Emperor (German: Deutscher Kaiser) and King of Prussia from 1888 until his abdication in 1918. His fall from power marked the end of the German Empire as well as the Hohenzollern dynasty's 500-year rule over Prussia.
Born during the reign of his granduncle Frederick William IV of Prussia, Wilhelm was the son of Prince Frederick William and Victoria, Princess Royal. Through his mother, he was the eldest of the 42 grandchildren of Queen Victoria of the United Kingdom. In March 1888, Wilhelm's father, Frederick William, ascended the German and Prussian thrones as Frederick III. Frederick died just 99 days later, and his son succeeded him as Kaiser Wilhelm II.
In March 1890, the young Kaiser dismissed longtime Chancellor Otto von Bismarck and assumed direct control over his nation's policies, embarking on a "New Course" to cement Germany's status as a leading world power. Over the course of his reign, Germany acquired new territories in China and the Pacific and became Europe's largest manufacturer. However, Wilhelm often undermined such progress by making tactless and threatening statements towards other countries without first consulting his ministers. Likewise, he and his government did much to alienate the German Empire from most of Europe by initiating a massive naval build-up, contesting French control of Morocco, backing Austria-Hungary's annexation of Bosnia and threatening Britain’s access to the Persian Gulf by  building a railway through Baghdad. By the second decade of the 20th century, Germany could rely only on significantly weaker nations such as Austria-Hungary and the declining Ottoman Empire as allies.
Despite strengthening Germany's position as a great power in the short term by building a powerful navy and promoting scientific innovation within its borders, Wilhelm II's erratic foreign policy greatly antagonized the international community and is considered by many to have led to the fall of the German Empire. In 1914, his diplomatic brinksmanship culminated in the guarantee of his country's military support to Austria-Hungary during the July Crisis which ultimately plunged all of Europe into World War I. A lax wartime leader, Wilhelm left virtually all decisions regarding strategy and organisation of the war effort to the German Supreme Army Command. By August 1916, his broad delegation of power gave rise to a de facto military dictatorship that dominated the country's policies in his place for the rest of the conflict. Despite emerging victorious over Russia and obtaining significant territorial gains in Eastern Europe, Germany relinquished all its conquests after its forces were decisively defeated on the Western Front in the autumn of 1918.
Losing the support of his country's military and many of his subjects, Wilhelm was forced to abdicate during the German Revolution of 1918–1919 which converted Germany into an unstable democratic state known as the Weimar Republic. Wilhelm subsequently fled to exile in the Netherlands, where he remained during its occupation by Nazi Germany in 1940 before dying there in 1941.
