=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[The Dukes of Hazzard: Season 5, Episode 9 | Cast and Crew | Rotten Tomatoes]
Uncle Jesse Duke · Actor · Sorrell ... Shroyer · Deputy Enos Strate · Actor · Waylon Jennings · The Balladeer · Voice · Brett Halsey · Carter · Guest Star ·...
URL: https://www.rottentomatoes.com/tv/the-dukes-of-hazzard/s05/e09/cast-and-crew

[The Dukes of Hazzard/Enos in Trouble - The TV IV]
Enos in Trouble is the ninth episode of the fifth season of The Dukes of Hazzard, and the ninety-fifth episode overall. Guest Stars: Brett Halsey (Carter), Anthony Eisley (Burke)
URL: http://tviv.org/The_Dukes_of_Hazzard/Enos_in_Trouble

[GUEST Definition & Meaning - Merriam-Webster]
The meaning of GUEST is a person entertained in one's house. How to use guest in a sentence.
URL: https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/guest

["The Dukes of Hazzard" Enos in Trouble (TV Episode 1982)]
The Dukes of Hazzard. S5.E9. All episodesAll · Cast & crew · Trivia · IMDbPro. All topics. Enos in Trouble. Episode aired Nov 19, 1982; TV-PG; 49m. IMDb RATING.
URL: https://m.imdb.com/title/tt0567161/

[The Dukes Of Hazzard series regulars and episode guide]
Boss and Roscoe set up an illegal horse betting parlor which makes a fortune swindling money from its patrons, and they fix things so that the Dukes get the blame. November 19, 1982: Enos In Trouble Season 5, episode 9 W: Si Rose D: Paul Baxley With Brett Halsey (Carter), Anthony Eisley (Burke).
URL: https://www.ultimate70s.com/actor/-/The_Dukes_Of_Hazzard/550


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [The Dukes of Hazzard: Season 5, Episode 9 | Cast and Crew | Rotten Tomatoes] ---
More Certified fresh picks New TV Tonight - DTF St. Louis: Season 1 81% - Young Sherlock: Season 1 100% - Marshals: Season 1 45% - American Classic: Season 1 88% - Vladimir: Season 1 -- - RJ Decker: Season 1 -- - The Dinosaurs: Season 1 -- - Ted: Season 2 -- - Outlander: Season 8 -- - America's Culinary Cup: Season 1 -- Most Popular TV on RT - Paradise: Season 2 89% - A Knight of the Seven Kingdoms: Season 1 94% - Monarch: Legacy of Monsters: Season 2 79% - 56 Days: Season 1 59% - Bridgerton: Season 4 84% - DTF St. Louis: Season 1 81% - Marshals: Season 1 45% - The Night Agent: Season 3 85% - Dark Winds: Season 4 100% - How to Get to Heaven From Belfast: Season 1 94% More Certified fresh pick Columns Guides - 25 Most Popular TV Shows Right Now: What to Watch on Streaming Link to 25 Most Popular TV Shows Right Now: What to Watch on Streaming - 30 Most Popular Movies Right Now: What to Watch In Theaters and Streaming Link to 30 Most Popular Movies Right Now: What to Watch In Theaters and Streaming Hubs - Awards Tour Link to Awards Tour - What to Watch: In Theaters and On Streaming Link to What to Watch: In Theaters and On Streaming RT News - Revisiting the Oscars: How Braveheart Overtook the Biggest Frontrunners of 1996 Link to Revisiting the Oscars: How Braveheart Overtook the Biggest Frontrunners of 1996 - Hoppers First Reviews: Pixar’s Best Film in Years Link to Hoppers First Reviews: Pixar’s Best Film in Years


--- [The Dukes of Hazzard/Enos in Trouble - The TV IV] ---
No content


--- [GUEST Definition & Meaning - Merriam-Webster] ---
1 a : a person entertained in one's house b : a person to whom hospitality or special honor is extended The pool is for the use of members and guests. c : a person who pays for the services of an establishment (such as a hotel or restaurant) 2 : an organism (such as an insect) sharing the dwelling of another especially : inquiline 3 : a substance that is incorporated in a host substance 4 : a usually prominent person not a regular member of a cast or organization who appears in a program or performance —often used before another noun a guest star/speaker a guest appearance guested; guesting; guests : to receive as a guest : to appear as a guest Love words? Need even more definitions? Merriam-Webster unabridged


--- ["The Dukes of Hazzard" Enos in Trouble (TV Episode 1982)] ---
No content


--- [The Dukes Of Hazzard series regulars and episode guide] ---
Series regulars or semi-regulars in 'The Dukes Of Hazzard' from 1970-1982: - Ben Jones as Cooter (1979-1985) - Catherine Bach as Daisy Duke (1979-1985) - Denver Pyle as Uncle Jesse (1979-1985) - James Best as Sheriff Roscoe Coltrane (1979-1985) - John Schneider as Bo Duke (1979-1985) - Sonny Shroyer as Enos (1979-1985) - Sorrell Booke as Boss Hogg (1979-1985) - Tom Wopat as Luke Duke (1979-1985) - Rick Hurst as Cletus (1980-1983) - Byron Cherry as Coy Duke (1982-1983) - Christopher Mayer as Vance Duke (1982-1983) 1970-1982 Episode Guide for 'The Dukes Of Hazzard': (Episodes with dates prior to 1970 aired as reruns.) Season 1, episode 1 W: Gy Waldron D: Rod Amateau With Dennis Haskins (Moss), Ernie W. Brown (Dobro Dullyn), Dan Fitzgerald (Truck Driver), Gillaaron Houck (Leroy), Lou Walker (Workman), Sandra Dorsey (Deputy Hazel), Ralph Pace (Harvey), Jason Lively (Rudy), Champ Laidler (Brodie), Tisch Raye (Jill Dodson). Series debut. The Duke cousins root out evil in backwater Hazzard County -- starting with a sheriff who is illegally smuggling in slot machines. Season 1, episode 2 W: Gy Waldron D: Bob Kelljan With Ronnie Schell (Lester Starr), Clayton Landey (Max), Ginny Parker (Mabel), Terry Browning (Ruby), Candy Bleick (Dodie), Wallace Merck (Jojo), Bill Gribble (Carson). The Duke boys, trying to protect Daisy from an unscrupulous music publisher, unknowingly take on both the FBI and the syndicate. Season 1, episode 3 W: William Putnam D: Rod Amateau With Cliff Pellow (Quint McQuaid), Colby Chester (Leo), Jeannie Wilson (Mary Kaye Porter). Bo and Luke pick up a pretty -- and pregnant -- hitchhiker with a suitcase full of troubles. Season 1, episode 4 W: Bob Clark D: Ron Satloff With Judith Baldwin (Joey's Moll), Larry Bishop (Joey Sagalo), Claude Humphrey (Big John), Jerry Rushing (Ace Parker), Rod Amateau (Manny). Bo and Luke are conned into repossessing a car for Boss Hogg. Season 1, episode 5 W: William Keys, William Kelley D: Don McDougall With Carlene Watkins (Agent Roxanne Huntley), Champ Laidler (Brodie), Ralph Pace (Ed Monroe), Bob Hannah (Inventor). The Dukes are on both sides of the law when they make moonshine to enter in a fossil fuel substitute contest. Season 1, episode 6 W: Katharyn Powers D: Don McDougall With Neva Patterson (Swamp Molly), Mary Jo Catlett (Cousin Allice), William Cort (Agent Callas), Bob Shaw (Agent Swan). Luke and Bo are almost put behind bars while doing a favor for Uncle Jesse's old friend, Swamp Molly. Season 1, episode 7 W: Kris Kincade, Nance McCormick D: Hy Averback With Roz Kelly (Amy Creevy), Marya Small (Frankie Olmstead), David Hayward (Turk), Gary Grubbs (Roy), Patrick Wright (Moss), Darryl McCollough (Ernie Ledbetter). The Obstacle Derby brings extra excitement when a woman driver's mechanic tries to sabotage her car, and Boss Hogg substitutes a ringer for another driver. Season 1, episode 8 W: Bruce Howard D: Bob Claver With Fred McCarren (Neil Bishop), Stuart Nisbet (Harvey Essex), Bill Meadows (Station Attendant), Kris Marquis (Willis). Boss Hogg accuses Bo of robbery, while the real thief sweet talks Daisy into putting him up at the Dukes ' home. Season 1, episode 9 W: Paul Savage D: Don McDougall With Charles Cyphers (Bumper), Del Monroe (Benteen), Mayf Nutter (Doodley), Terry Wills (Taylor), Gordon Hurst (Guard). Cooter steals the presidential limousine from the Secret Service men who are driving it through Hazzard. Season 1, episode 10 W: Martin Roth D: William Asher With Stella Parton (Mary Beth Malone), Leo Gordon (Rocky Marlowe), Robert F. Hoy (Herky), Pat Renella (Manny), Suzanne Niles (Maybelle), Tara Preston (Cindy Lou), Norman Alden (Chief Lacey). Luke and Bo are coerced into acting as deputies to transport a prisoner to jail, without knowing that he is public enemy number one. Season 1, episode 11 W: William Raynor, Myles Wilder D: Rod Amateau With Norman Bartold (Company Man), Dan Barrows (Attendant), Hoke Howell (Watchman), Damu King (Assistant), Rick Hurst (Cletus). Bo and Luke heroically put out a fire in an armored truck and get accused of stealing $1 million for their trouble. Season 1, episode 12 W: Fred Freiberger D: Bob Claver With Jo Ann Pflug (Helen Hogan), Teddy Wilson (Morgan), Paul Brinegar (Dewey Stovall), Sammy Jackson (Artie). Bo and Luke seek out Uncle Jesse, asking him to use his long-neglected gambling skills. Season 1, episode 13 W: Gy Waldron D: Gy Waldron With Arte Johnson (Irving), Avery Schreiber (Wendle), Burton Gilliam (Tom Colt), Pat Cranshaw (Doc Petticord), Joseph Burke (Sheriff Ragsdale), Miriam Byrd-Nethery (Rose Ellen). While Bo, Luke and Uncle Jesse are in jail for robbing the Hazzard bank, Daisy is kidnapped. September 21, 1979: Days Of Shine And Roses Season 2, episode 1 W: Bruce Howard D: Hollingsworth Morse With Pat Buttram (Sam), Shug Fisher (Homer), Ancel Cook (Abel), Jim Mohlmann (Sheriff Loomis). A reunion of old moonshiners provokes a contest between Boss Hogg and Uncle Jesse to determine who was the best bootlegger 30 years earlier. Season 2, episode 2 W: Si Rose D: Paul Baxley With Curtis Credel (H.H. Harkness), Bruce M. Fischer (Buck), Hunter Von Leer (Dusty), Adam Wade (Doc Willis), Troy Melton (Driver). Boss Hogg gets fed up with the Dukes and imports his nasty nephew to help him put the boys out of commission for good. Season 2, episode 3 W: Stephen Kandel D: Richard Moder With Mel Tillis (Burl Tolliver), Dorothy Collier (Sherri Tolliver), Brett Halsey (Dunlap), Michael MacRae (Cowan), Sam Edwards (Track Steward), Rick Hurst (Cletus). Bo and Luke get arrested for rustling twice in one day when they try to help a neighbor win a horse race. Season 2, episode 4 W: William Raynor, Myles Wilder D: Rod Amateau With Lindsay Bloom (Mabel), Paul Lambert (Black Jack Bender), Lewis Charles (Steel), Leo Gordon (Devere), Marc Lawrence (Rotosky), Tony Cacciotti (Tony), Charles Guardino (Jordan), Don Fox Green (Rodgers), Richard Humphreys (Peters), Rick Hurst (Cletus). When Boss Hogg agrees -- for a $10,000 fee -- to hold a syndicate meeting in his jail, the Dukes feel obligated to break it up. Season 2, episode 5 W: William Raynor, Myles Wilder D: William Asher With Billy Green Bush (Marty Garbade), Boyd Bodwell (Hijacked Driver), Owen Bush (Shipping Clerk), Salt Walther (Truck Driver), Ashley Cox (Garbade's Girl), J.N. Roberts (Powers), Bob Yerkes (Menznick), Rick Hurst (Cletus). Bo and Luke try to clear themselves of robbery charges by finding the real culprits who stole a truckload of television sets. Season 2, episode 6 W: Martin Roth D: Jack Starrett With Casey Swain (Ernie), Russ McCubbin (Phil), Dixie Wade (Mother), Debra Feuer (Becky Mae), Sunshine Parker (Sunshine), Norman Alden (Chief Lacey). When Boss Hogg claims that Bo and Luke are dead and pins a robbery on them, the very much alive duo impersonate ghosts to prove their innocence. Season 2, episode 7 W: Bruce Howard, William Raynor, Myles Wilder, Ron Friedman D: Ernest Pintoff With Raymond Guth (Amos Stigger), Cale Yarborough (Himself), Harrison Page (Chet Garvey), William Watson (Simon Jethro), Tom McFadden (Rowby Jethro). Bo and Luke get a chance to help their idol, stock car racer Cale Yarborough, test some new equipment in Hazzard County. Season 2, episode 8 W: Paul Savage D: Paul Baxley With Gerald McRaney (Workman), John Quade (Augie Detwiler), Med Flory (Shoulders), Dianne Anthony (Bessie Lou Perkins). To save their own hides, the Dukes are forced to break up a demolition derby covering up for a smuggling ring before Roscoe can solve the case. Season 2, episode 9 W: William Raynor, Myles Wilder D: Hollingsworth Morse With R.G. Armstrong (Tom Pryor), L.Q. Jones (Warren), Bob Hastings (Barnes). The Dukes move Boss Hogg into their own home to protect him from hit men. Season 2, episode 10 W: Bruce Howard D: Dick Moder With Lurene Tuttle (Granny Annie Coggins), Mickey Jones (B.B. Davenport), George Murdock (Big Jim Downey), George James (Vic), Pamela Bryant (Holly Mae), The Oak Ridge Boys. Eccentric local artist Granny Annie pays Bo and Luke for some chores with funny money, and when Boss Hogg learns that there is a counterfeiter in Hazzard he schemes to get possession of the engraving plates. Season 2, episode 11 W: Bruce Howard D: Allen Baron With Pat Klous (T.C. Rogers), Doris Hess (Mabel Whooster), Jon Lormer (Preacher), Michael Alldredge (Wheeler), Charlie Dell (Emory Potter). Bo and Luke are thrown into jail after they agree to become campaign managers for a candidate challenging Boss Hogg for a political position. Season 2, episode 12 W: Si Rose D: Jack Whitman With Jeff Altman (Hughie), Lois Areno (Carla), Kathrine Baumann (Sally), Warren Berlinger (Benswinger), Dana House (Lil), Kellee Patterson (Jane), Candi Brough (Floalee), Randi Brough (Francie). As acting sheriff, Hogg's nephew arrests Jesse Duke for stripping cars, so Luke and Bo go after the real culprits -- an attractive trio of women. Season 2, episode 13 W: Herman Groves D: Hollingsworth Morse With Simon MacCorkindale (Gaylord Duke), Barry Gremillion (Homer), Jim B. Smith (Tax Collector), Ernie Brown (Longstreet Davenport). Daisy starts making plans for a wedding when she falls in love with an English duke who apparently has inherited property in Hazzard County. Season 2, episode 14 W: Jim Rogers D: Dick Moder With Lindsay Bloom (Mabel), Susan Walden (Suzy Holmes), Edward Edwards (Fred Andrews), Robert Alda (C.J. Holmes), Lance LeGault (Les Sloane), Robert Tessier (Mitch Henderson), Ernie W. Brown (Longstreet B. Davenport). The Dukes help an eloping heiress escape from her irate father's henchmen and bring her to her fiancee. But her father wants her back and will stop at nothing -- even kidnapping Uncle Jesse. Season 2, episode 15 W: William Raynor, Myles Wilder D: Jack Whitman With Ernie Brown (Longstreet B. Davenport), Fred Stuthman (Hard Luck Jones), Ted Markland (Flint), J.J. Johnston (Miller), John Crawford (Agent Buchanan). The Dukes' efforts to reform old-time moonshiner Hard Luck Jones runs into plenty of roadblocks when he hijacks a tank to use as a rolling brewery. Season 2, episode 16 W: William Raynor, Myles Wilder D: Hollingsworth Morse With Jeannie Wilson (Professor Bardsley), Doris Dowling (Stacy Williams), Whit Bissell (Dr. James Fenwick), Walter Barnes (Jeb McCobb), Cindy Acker (Sam McCobb), Sandy Acker (Gerry McCobb), Duke Robbins (Zack), Clifton James (Sheriff Crabb). The Dukes help a history professor find a Civil War strongbox buried in Hazzard County that contains a regimental payroll. But Boss Hogg and a couple of thugs are after it too. Season 2, episode 17 W: Martin Roth D: Dick Moder With Dick Sargent (Sheriff Grady Byrd), Peter Brown (Floyd Baker), Jenny Neumann (Molly Harmon). After Luke gets Daisy fired from the Boar's Nest, the new sheriff hires her as a deputy and Boss Hogg blows a gasket when he hears the news. Season 2, episode 18 W: Jim Waldron D: Arthur Marks With Loretta Lynn (Herself), Henry Gibson (Squirt), Dennis Burkley (Bubba), Rebecca Reynolds (Cindy), Janet Wells (Leona). While stopped at the Boar's Nest, Loretta Lynn is kidnapped by a trio who want her to offer tips about breaking into the music business. Season 2, episode 19 W: Gy Waldron D: Rod Amateau With Dick Sargent (Sheriff Grady Byrd), John Shearin (Jude Emery), Sam Melville (Snake Harmon), Pete Munro (Willie), Ben Davidson (Patch Laurel), George 'Buck' Flower (Coy Randolph). Bo and Luke assist Texas ranger Jude Emery in tracking down hardened criminal "Snake" Harmon, who is hiding in the swamp. Season 2, episode 20 W: Si Rose D: Hollingsworth Morse With James Hampton (Sheriff Buster Moon), Harvey Vernon (Amos), J. Pat O'Malley (Henstep), Shug Fisher (Newtie), Lou Richards (Virgil Cooper). Uncle Jesse reconvenes the Ridge Raiders when he learns that Boss Hogg has misappropriated funds for a senior citizens' center to build a strip club. Season 2, episode 21 W: Bruce Howard D: Jack Starrett With Dennis Rucker (Mason Dixon), Mary-Margaret Humes (Tinker), Robin Eisenmann (Sam), Morgan Woodward (Dempsey), Taylor Lacher (David), Larry Watson (Ryan). Bo and Luke accidentally pick up a crate of marijuana at the bus depot and end up on the run. But a private detective and his two sexy associates help the Dukes and they work together to stop the drug-smuggling ring. Season 2, episode 22 W: William Raynor, Myles Wilder D: Denver Pyle With Hal Smith (Henry Flatt), Audrey Landers (Gail Flatt), Jim English (Morgue Attendant), Mallie Jackson (Peggy). Hogg's plan to plow up a cemetery rattles a con man who's supposedly dead and buried there. Season 2, episode 23 W: Martin Roth D: Rod Amateau With Miriam Byrd-Nethery (Holly Comfurt), Edward Edwards (John Henry Comfurt), Lori Lethin (Lori Comfurt), Bernard Fox (Iggins), John Lawrence (Frank Baldwyn). When the Comfurt family suddenly strike it rich, their car -- containing their windfall in a safe, locked inside the trunk -- is stolen. The Dukes track down the car as it changes into the hands of a ruthless bank robber. Season 2, episode 24 W: William Raynor, Myles Wilder D: Dick Moder With Robin Mattson (Diane Benson), Vernon Weddle (John Zimbra), Don Stroud (Carl), Richard Jensen (Bob Dexter), Greg Finley (Proprietor). Shapely carnival stunt show operator Diane Benson offers Bo the opportunity of a lifetime: being the star of the headline act. The act involves a stunt driver jumping over a row of 32 cars. November 5, 1980: Enos Strate To The Top Season 3, episode 1 W: William Raynor, Myles Wilder D: Rod Amateau With Nedra Volz (Miz Tisdale), Leonard Stone (Ringleader), Jerry Summers (Cosgroves), Tom Oberhaus (Gumbs), Troy Milton (Driver). Enos helps the Dukes rescue Daisy after she accidentally photographs two bank robbers in the act before being kidnapped by them, and the resulting publicity gets Enos a job offer with the Los Angeles Police Department. Season 3, episode 2 W: Si Rose D: Jack Whitman With Morgan Brittany (Mary Lou Pringle), Charles Tyner (Claude Billings), Andrew Robinson (Billy Joe Billings), Tammy Wynette (Herself). Bo and Luke come to the aid of beautiful Mary Lou Pringle, who is trying to sell her family's estate but cannot due to rumors that the mansion is haunted. Season 3, episode 3 W: Jim Rogers D: Paul Baxley With Dianne Anthony (Bessie Lou Perkins), Sonny Shields (Catfish Lee), Richard Schaal (Billy Ray), Eddie Ryder (Culpepper), Pat Cranshaw (Doc Petticord). The fate of the Duke farm rests on Luke's ability to defeat Catfish Lee in a boxing match. But the odds are stacked against Luke, since he must also contend with Catfish's crooked partner. Season 3, episode 4 W: Martin Roth D: Hollingsworth Morse With Lindsay Bloom (Mabel Tillingham), Joanne Hickman (Nurse), James McIntire (Linc), Ray Young (Dell), Dennis Haskins (Charlie Watkins). Boss' dream finally comes true when he forecloses on the Duke farm. Just as he is celebrating his success, he gets a call from his doctor telling him he has only two weeks to live, and he becomes a changed man. Season 3, episode 5 W: William Raynor, Myles Wilder D: Hollingsworth Morse With Jeff Altman (Hughie Hogg), Ellen Murray (Mary Belle). Boss Hogg unleashes his "secret weapon" against the Dukes -- his college-educated nephew who comes to Hazzard with ideas for dirty tricks and schemes to frame Bo and Luke for bank robbery. Season 3, episode 6 W: William Raynor, Myles Wilder D: Dick Moder With Sorrell Booke (Abraham Lincoln Hogg), Boyd Bodwell (Benny the Quill), Ross Elliott (Finchburg Sheriff), Ted Gehring (Judge Druten). Boss Hogg's twin brother Abraham comes to Hazzard for the reading of their great Aunt's will which bequeaths a piece of land to both of them -- but Boss had Abe declared legally dead years ago and sold the land. Season 3, episode 7 W: Si Rose D: Jack Whitman With Tori Lysdahl (Sue Ann McGraw), Lucille Benson (Mama Coltrane), William Sanderson (Collins), Reid Smith (McGraw). Roscoe plans to marry a woman he met through a computer dating service, and Bogg Hogg invites everyone in town to his wedding except the Dukes. Season 3, episode 8 W: Martin Roth D: Denver Pyle With Woody Strode (Willie), Brian Libby (Russ), Roy Jenson (Lacey), Dale Pullum (Otis J.), Roger Pancake (Hank). Knowing that Bo and Luke were responsible for the deliveries, Boss hires a trio of criminals to hijack a load of Christmas trees bound for Hazzard and, unwittingly, quite a number of Santa Clauses. Season 3, episode 9 W: Len Kaufman D: Dick Moder With John Larch (Adam Venable), Cynthia Leake (Ester Venable), William Mims (Hickey Burns), Spencer Milligan (Leroy Little), Grant Owens (Dixon), James Reynolds (Clayton), Hoyt Axton (Himself). The Dukes help new neighbors Adam and Esther Veneable evade a pair of crooked bounty hunters, who are convinced that $2 million in stolen diamonds are hidden on the property. Season 3, episode 10 W: Bruce Howard D: Dick Moder With Phillip Brown (Earl Becket), Larry D. Mann (Boss J.W. Hickman), Ken Foree (Rollo), A.J. Freeman (Truck Driver), The Oak Ridge Boys (Themselves). Cooter's new employee is an underling for a crooked county administrator wanting to take over Hazzard County, and things become even more complicated when Daisy falls for the handsome stranger. Season 3, episode 11 W: William Raynor, Myles Wilder D: Hollingsworth Morse With Jan Clayton (Lucinda Meadows), Gregory Walcott (Hatcher), Jack Garner (Blaine), Jay Ripley (Deputy Wilbur Fudge). Uncle Jesse's old flame visits Hazzard in search of the legacy left by her late moonshining husband -- and to settle an old score with Boss Hogg. Season 3, episode 12 W: William Raynor, Myles Wilder D: Paul Baxley With Fran Ryan (Ma Harper), Johnnie Collins III (Billy Boy Harper), Richard Fullerton (Billy Gene Harper), Alan Wyatt Jr. (Junior Harper), Sandy Wescott (Nurse). When Cooter is injured before Hazzard County's annual road race, Luke offers to take the driver's seat of Cooter's car, knowing he will have to race Bo in the General Lee. Season 3, episode 13 W: Si Rose D: Rod Amateau With Don Pedro Colley (Sheriff Little), Anne Haney (C.V. Gumble), Bill Cross (Armored Truck Driver), Ken Hixon (Dr. Floyd). An accident leaves Bo with amnesia and Boss Hogg takes advantage of the situation by adopting Bo as his son so he can make a financial killing by running moonshine. Season 3, episode 14 W: Bruce Howard D: Denver Pyle With Martha Smith (Myrna Rovy), James Crittenden (Burt Rovy), Victoria Johnson (Lori Mae). A pair of jewel thieves arrive in Hazzard and, after being spotted by Rosco, make their getaway in the General Lee, automatically implicating the innocent Dukes. Season 3, episode 15 W: Len Kaufman D: Paul Baxley With Christopher Hensel (Jeb Stuart Duke), Earl Boen (Eustice Hastings), Dennis Holahan (Harry Joe), Tony Brubaker (Tiny), Buck Young (Marshall), Kenneth O'Brien (Beauregard Mason). The Dukes' cousin, Jeb Stuart Duke, assists the clan in helping retrieve a priceless sword once owned by Gen. Stonewall Jackson, which has been stolen in a scheme arranged by Boss Hogg. Season 3, episode 16 W: Martin Roth D: Hollingsworth Morse With Richard Paul (Clyde Amos), Michael Greene (Vic), Alex Kubik (Corey), Kevin Hagen (Farmer Perkins), Dottie West (Herself). Daisy moonlights as a reporter for the Hazzard Gazette, and is assigned to cover an investigation into the thefts of tractors from farms across the county. Season 3, episode 17 W: Bruce Howard D: Dick Moder With Jeff Altman (Hughie Hogg), John H. Fields (Roy), Frances Bay (Aunt Hortence), Pat Studstill (Floyd), Roger Torrey (Wayne). Boss calls his devious nephew Huey back to Hazzard to get rid of the Dukes, and Huey frames Bo and Luke for possession of illegal moonshine. But he also manages to swindle his uncle Boss out of everything he owns when a phony IRS agent audits him. Season 3, episode 18 W: Jim Rogers D: Denver Pyle With Peggy Rea (Lulu Hogg), Charles Napier (Digger Jackson), Harry Caesar (Homer), Earl Colbert (Deke), Freddy Fender (Himself), Paul Smith (Hobie). Digger Jackson, a former associate of Boss, escapes from prison and is out to enact deadly revenge. Season 3, episode 19 W: William Raynor, Myles Wilder D: John Florea With Nedra Volz (Miz Emma Tisdale), Rick Hill (Phil Ackley), Sam Melville (Tommy Dunkirk), Simone Griffeth (Sandra Rhodes/Kate Ackley), Roy Orbison (Himself). Bo and Luke find a sack containing $1 million dollars floating in a river, a fraction of the money stolen in a robbery five years earlier. Season 3, episode 20 W: Len Kaufman D: Paul Baxley With Nedra Volz (Miz Emma Tisdale), Royce D. Applegate (Harry Ray), Peter Breck (J.J. Sunday). To help out family friend Emma Tisdale when she goes on vacation, Bo and Luke take over daily operations of her taxicab service and wind up accused of stealing a valuable gold certificate. Season 3, episode 21 W: Bruce Howard D: Dick Moder With Elizabeth Kerr (Emma Partridge), Byron Webster (Mr. Beckman), David Graf (Maury). Bo and Luke buy an old vase from a widow that turns out to be worth a fortune, and Boss Hogg wants it bad. October 9, 1981: Mrs. Daisy Hogg Season 4, episode 1 W: Si Rose D: John Florea With Jonathan Frakes (Jamie Lee Hogg), Roger Robinson (Laudry), Douglas Hume (Floyd), Hank Underwood (Mr. Pruitt), Terry Wilson (Scroggs). Daisy is smitten by Boss Hogg's handsome, rich nephew, Jamie Lee Hogg, who has come to town to purchase his uncle's grits mill. Season 4, episode 2 W: Martin Roth D: Paul Baxley With Nedra Volz (Miz Emma Tisdale), Don Pedro Colley (Sheriff Little), Robin Strand (Turk), Morgan Stoddard (Moody), Donna Fargo (Herself). Boss hires two crooks to impersonate Bo and Luke and rob an armored truck with a duplicate General Lee. Season 4, episode 3 W: Bruce Howard D: James Best With Linda Hart (Lisa), Robert Phillips (Frank), Richard Winters (Lenny), Joseph Whipp (Mason), Frank Marth (Agent Caldwell). Everyone's after a sack of diamonds that was accidentally dropped from an armed robber's vehicle while driving through Hazzard, and all roads lead to the Duke farm. Season 4, episode 4 W: Simon Muntner D: Don McDougall With Don Pedro Colley (Sheriff Little), Parley Baer (Doc Appleby), Hugh Gillin (Mr. Christal), Bob Hastings (Slick), Barney Phillips (Judge Buford Potts), Charlie Dell (Emory Potter). Boss Hogg is offered top dollar for the Duke farm by a beer distributor, so he has Roscoe pretend that he got whiplash while chasing Bo and Luke so he can sue them for the farm. Season 4, episode 5 W: Kristan Kincade D: Don McDougall With Laurette Spang (Mindy Lou), G. Yon (Leroy), Johnny Paycheck (Himself). The Duke boys' friend, Mindy Lou, learns that Boss Hogg is planning a heist of motorcycles in order to gain the upper hand in the upcoming tri-county motocross race. Season 4, episode 6 W: Fred Freiberger D: Denver Pyle With Bill Erwin (Clarence Stovall), Daniel Currie (Homer), Dan Priest (Bib). Boss Hogg, unwilling to pay longtime Hazzard County clerk Clarence Stovall a $30,000 pension, fires him one day short of retirement. Stovall gets his revenge by stealing the money, which Bo and Luke then try to return before it is missed. Season 4, episode 7 W: Si Rose D: John Florea With John Hancock (Handley), Mary Treen (Aunt Clara Coltrane), Nedra Volz (Miz Emma Tisdale). Daisy's one-day stint as Hazzard County treasurer on Sadie Hogg Day may earn her a trip to jail when she is accused of embezzling. Season 4, episode 8 W: William Raynor, Myles Wilder D: Dick Moder With Don Pedro Colley (Sheriff Little), Lindsay Bloom (Mabel Tillingham), Alan Autry (Dawson), Regis Cordic (Reynolds), William Smith (Jason Steele), Redmond Gleeson (Ben Wilkenson), Terry Wilson (Scroggs). Roscoe inherits 10 million dollars and uses part of it to hire a bounty hunter to track down Bo and Luke. Season 4, episode 9 W: Bruce Howard D: Don McDougall With Steve Sandor (Russ Mitchell), Colleen Camp (Bonnie Lane), Jay Garner (Harvey Dunsmore). A beautiful fur thief, along with her two accomplices, try to exact revenge on Boss Hogg and Cooter winds up in the middle. Season 4, episode 10 W: William Raynor, Myles Wilder D: Denver Pyle With Andy Wood (Banyon), Patrick Wright (Spanner), Paul Smith (Hobie), Walker Edmiston (Professor Crandall). When the Duke boys lose a cross country race to a better car, a discouraged Luke decides that the General Lee may have finally outlived its usefulness. Season 4, episode 11 W: Si Rose D: John Florea With Paul Kent (Mr. Hodges), Lila Kent (Laverne), Nedra Volz (Miz Emma Tisdale). Cletus becomes lovestruck when he witnesses Daisy's charms in getting her cousins out of a phony traffic charge. Season 4, episode 12 W: William Raynor, Myles Wilder D: Hollingsworth Morse With Nedra Volz (Miz Tisdale), Jeff Altman (Hughie Hogg), Ed Peck (Roy Winters), Buck Owens (Himself), Pat Studstill (Barclay), Roger Torrey (Norris). Hughie Hogg's latest scheme targets Cooter, whose garage is threatened with destruction so Boss Hogg can build shoddy condominiums on the land. Season 4, episode 13 W: Bruce Howard D: Denver Pyle With Charlie Dell (Emory Potter), Lila Kent (Laverne), Barney Phillips (Judge Buford Potts). When Boss Hogg is arrested for robbing his own bank, Uncle Jesse bails out his enemy by using his farm's mortgage. Season 4, episode 14 W: Martin Roth D: Hollingsworth Morse With Mickey Gilley (Himself), Elinor Donahue (Agent Marjorie Dane), Hari Rhodes (Agent Ben Jordan), Burton Gilliam (Heep), L.Q. Jones (Morton). Boss Hogg is excited about the Mickey Gilley charity concert at Hazzard Square -- not because of the music, but because he is working with record pirates who are making illegal recordings of the concert. Season 4, episode 15 W: Bruce Howard D: Paul Baxley With Jim Baker (Jasper Fenwick), Jim Boeke (Eli), Michael Keenan (Rayford Flicker). A determined Boss Hogg, desperately wanting Uncle Jesse's moonshine recipe, makes a demand: hand over the recipe, or have Bo and Luke charged with theft in the disappearance of funds from the Hazzard County Orphanage. Season 4, episode 16 W: Bruce Howard D: Don McDougall With Henry Jones (Hector Farley), John Wheeler (Mr. Rhuebottom). After spending 10 years in prison, Jesse's friend Hector plots revenge on Boss for stealing his land. Season 4, episode 17 W: Si Rose D: John Florea With Nedra Volz (Miz Emma Tisdale), James Hong (Billy Joe Fong), Diane Lander (Sue Ann Blake), Sid Haig (Slocum), George Whiteman (Nelson). Hazzard County postmistress Emma Tisdale hides out at the Duke farm after learning she is being investigated for mail fraud. Season 4, episode 18 W: Martin Roth D: Hollingsworth Morse With Peggy Rea (Lulu Hogg), Craig Littler (Lacey), Roger Hampton (Gorman), Curtis Taylor (Jacks). When Boss Hogg learns that an investigator is on his way to Hazzard to check out an illegal casino, he shifts the blame to the Duke family. Season 4, episode 19 W: Bruce Howard D: Don McDougall With Bill McLaughlin (Hanley), Ernie Hudson (Avery), Elmore Vincent (Doc Appleby). Roscoe has kept a diary detailing Boss Hogg's illegal schemes carried out over the years, but he loses it somewhere on the Duke farm. Season 4, episode 20 W: Si Rose D: Denver Pyle With Peggy Rea (Lulu Hogg), Gary Graham (Denny Logan), Tracy Scoggins (Linda Mae Barnes), Terence Knox (Rafe Logan), Rayford Barnes (Marshall). When an efficient -- and awesomely beautiful -- patrol officer effortlessly arrests Bo and Luke on traffic charges, an impressed Boss Hogg and Roscoe immediately hire her as a new deputy. Season 4, episode 21 W: William Raynor, Myles Wilder D: Paul Baxley With Andra Akers (Molly Hargrove), Alex Harvey (Morgan), Mike Moroff (Sam Porter), Carl Kraines (Jude Porter), Randal Patrick (Charlie Cooper). Daisy's longtime friend Molly Hargrove offers her a spot on the NASCAR women's racing circuit. But Molly knows a lot more about the job than she's willing to tell Daisy. Season 4, episode 22 W: William Raynor, Myles Wilder D: Gabrielle Beaumont With Tim O'Connor (Thackery), Kaz Garas (Loggins), Mark Withers (Denis), M.C. Gainey (Peters), Frederic George (Adams). The Dukes are forced to bond with their sworn enemies -- Boss Hogg and Roscoe -- after they are held at gunpoint by a gang of robbers at the Boar's Nest. Season 4, episode 23 W: William Raynor, Myles Wilder D: Paul Baxley With Don Pedro Colley (Sheriff Little), Joe Higgins (Big Jim Mathers), Danone Simpson (Melanie Dubois), Charles Bartlett (Grogan), Don Fox Greene (Malone), Robert Lussier (Motorist). Corruption runs amok in the Miss Tri-Counties pageant when Boss Hogg accepts a $10,000 payoff to rig the contest in favor of Hatchapee County entrant Melanie Dubois. Season 4, episode 24 W: Martin Roth D: Denver Pyle With Peggy Rea (Lulu Hogg), Nedra Volz (Miz Emma Tisdale), Don Pedro Colley (Sheriff Little), David Hayward (Dickens), Billy Ray Sharkey (Clark), Jon Locke (Murkin). Lulu and Daisy form the Hazzard County Equal Rights Society to decry overbearing treatment from men. Season 4, episode 25 W: Bruce Howard D: James Sheldon With Melinda Naud (Alabama Jones), Ralph Strait (Otis Plunkett), Charles Hoyes (Simon), Doug Heyes Jr. (Floyd). When Roscoe and Cletus go on strike after Boss refuses to give them a pay raise, Uncle Jesse is named the sheriff. Season 4, episode 26 W: Si Rose D: Don McDougall With Steven Williams (Leeman), Bill Fletcher (Hammer), John Crawford (Randall). Friends and enemies are once again forced to band after a pair of escaped convicts take refuge at the Duke farm and, at gunpoint, force the Duke family to cooperate with their escape plans. September 24, 1982: The New Dukes Season 5, episode 1 W: William Raynor, Myles Wilder D: Paul Baxley With William Russ (Josh Scroggins), Mitch Carter (Hatfield). Bo and Luke leave to pursue careers on the NASCAR circuit, and the Duke cousins -- Coy and Vance -- surprise Boss Hogg when they return to Hazzard after an absence of six years. Season 5, episode 2 W: Jim Rogers D: Don McDougall With Jay W. Baker (Jeb Morton), Phyllis Hall (Carrie Morton), John Wheeler (Mr. Rhuebottom). Boss Hogg swindles an unsuspecting newlywed couple into buying a worthless piece of land next to the Duke farm, but then gold nuggets mysteriously start to pop up on the property. Season 5, episode 3 W: William Raynor, Myles Wilder D: Denver Pyle With Nedra Volz (Miz Emma Tisdale), Al White (Burnette), Duke Stroud (Jack Morris), John Wheeler (Mr. Rhuebottom). Roscoe learns he's been nominated for "Lawman of the Year" and -- recalling his origins as an honorable sheriff -- refuses to play along with Boss' scheme to rob a jewelry store and pin the blame on Coy and Vance. Season 5, episode 4 W: Martin Roth D: James Sheldon With Michele Greene (Bobbie Lee Jordan), George McDaniel (Clooney), Robert Gray (Potter), Conlan Carter (Truck Dispatcher). Truck drivers Coy and Vance are hijacked while delivering a friend's priceless antiques -- and a runaway teenager -- to Hazzard. Season 5, episode 5 W: Bruce Howard D: Bob Sweeney With Earl Montgomery (Boss Sharkey), F. William Parker (Boss Hopkins), William Bramley (Boss Bowman), Anthony De Longis (Norton), James Carrington (Janco), Mel Tillis (Himself). When Boss betrays the trust of administrators from neighboring counties, he takes refuge at the Duke farm and Vance agrees to secretly record the other bosses' meeting. Season 5, episode 6 W: Bruce Howard D: Hollingsworth Morse With Ann Nelson (Lady), Les Tremayne (Big Daddy Hogg), Chris Hendrie (Ernie Game), Brion James (Jenkins), Billy Beck (Farmer). Boss hurriedly puts aside his criminal activities when he learns his father, the supposedly honest Big Daddy Hogg, is en route to Hazzard for a visit. Season 5, episode 7 W: Simon Muntner, Martin Roth D: James Sheldon With Beth Schaffel (Jenny), Gary Grubbs (Wade), Taylor Lacher (Dugan), Kirk Scott (Senator Maynard), Ella Mae Brown (Bessie Lou). A crooked state Senator becomes aware that someone has witnessed him stealing public funds. That witness -- Vance's old girlfriend -- flees to Hazzard. Season 5, episode 8 W: Si Rose D: Don McDougall With Cal Gibson (Swifty), Joy Garrett (Big Billie Tucker), Bruce M. Fischer (Bull), William O'Connell (Merle). Boss and Roscoe set up an illegal horse betting parlor which makes a fortune swindling money from its patrons, and they fix things so that the Dukes get the blame. Season 5, episode 9 W: Si Rose D: Paul Baxley With Brett Halsey (Carter), Anthony Eisley (Burke). Enos' footlocker from the Los Angeles Police Department arrives in Hazzard; unknown to the deputy, it comes complete with some valuable emeralds. Season 5, episode 10 W: William Raynor, Myles Wilder D: Denver Pyle With Melanie Vincz (Lavinia), Brian Libby (Ward S. Davis). Boss' latest scheme of selling phony insurance policies is endangered by an auto accident rigged by a pair of con artists. Season 5, episode 11 W: William Raynor, Myles Wilder D: Mark Warren With Frank Pendle (Loe Landis), Jesse D. Goins (Don Purcell), Robert V. Barron (Chickasaw Thins). When Boss is unable to convince the Dukes to sell the General Lee and an attempt to steal the car fails, he approaches Uncle Jesse to play a game of pool. Season 5, episode 12 W: William Raynor, Myles Wilder D: Mark Warren With Don Pedro Colley (Sheriff Little), Andrew Robinson (Pruitt), John Laughlin (Gregory), Don Dolan (Jailer), Jineane Ford (Girl), John Wheeler (Mr. Rhuebottom). Boss has Coy, Vance and Daisy framed and arrested so that he can go ahead with his plan to recorver millions in stolen bonds from Soggy Marsh. Season 5, episode 13 W: Martin Roth D: Don McDougall With Peggy Rea (Lulu Hogg), Jeff Altman (Hughie Hogg), Pat Studstill (Barclay), Roger Torrey (Norris). Hughie Hogg returns with his eye on the office of Hazzard County Sheriff, so he blackmails his Uncle Boss into supporting his campaign.
