=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Lillian Disney - Wikipedia]
She was the youngest of ten children, and the family struggled financially; her father died when she was seventeen.Early years·Recognition·Later years and death
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lillian_Disney

[Lillian Disney Facts for Kids]
Lillian was the youngest of ten children in her family. Her family faced financial challenges. Lillian's father passed away when she was seventeen years old.
URL: https://kids.kiddle.co/Lillian_Disney

["Happy Birthday, Mother" by Diane Disney Miller]
Feb 15, 2011·Lillian Marie, my mother, was their tenth and last child. She grew up in Lapwai, Idaho, where the headquarters of the Nez Perce Tribal Reservation was located.
URL: https://www.waltdisney.org/blog/happy-birthday-mother-diane-disney-miller

[Wife, Sounding Board, and Philanthropist Lillian Bounds Disney [otd 02/15]]
Feb 15, 2026·Sadly, her father died in 1916. By then most of Lillian's nine older siblings were out making their way on their own. In 1920, the mother had a ...Missing:passedaway?
URL: http://sfcompanion.blogspot.com/2020/02/wife-sounding-board-and-philanthropist.html

[Lillian Marie Disney (Bounds) (1899 - 1997) - Genealogy - Geni.com]
Dec 9, 2025·Lillian Disney suffered a stroke on December 15, 1997, exactly 31 years after the death of Walt Disney. She died the following morning at her home, aged 98.
URL: https://www.geni.com/people/Lillian-Disney/6000000001511487502


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Lillian Disney - Wikipedia] ---
Lillian Marie Disney (née Bounds; February 15, 1899 – December 16, 1997) was an American ink artist at the Walt Disney Animation Studios and the wife of Walt Disney from 1925 until his death in 1966. Born in Spalding, Idaho, Disney graduated from high school in Lapwai before moving to Lewiston to attend college. She left Idaho in 1923 to move to Southern California, where she met future husband Walt while working as a secretary for his company.
During a train ride in 1928, Walt revealed to his wife a new animated character, whom he called "Mortimer Mouse". Lillian suggested that he rename his character "Mickey Mouse", a name which has since become synonymous with the Disney brand.
Walt Disney died from lung cancer on December 15, 1966, after which Lillian remarried, to John L. Truyens (a Southern California real estate developer) from 1969 until his death in 1981. On December 15, 1997, Lillian Disney suffered a stroke and died the following morning in Los Angeles at age 98.




--- [Lillian Disney Facts for Kids] ---
Lillian Disney facts for kids Quick facts for kids Lillian Disney | | |---|---| | Lillian Disney in 1951 | | | Born | Lillian Marie Bounds February 15, 1899 Spalding, Idaho, U.S. | | Died | December 16, 1997 West Los Angeles, California, U.S. | (aged 98) | Occupation | Ink and paint artist | | Years active | 1928–1997 | | Spouse(s) | John L. Truyens (m. 1969; died 1981) | | Children | 2, including Diane Disney Miller | | Relatives | See Disney family | Lillian Marie Disney (born Bounds) was an American artist. She worked at the famous Disney Studios. Lillian was also the wife of Walt Disney, who created Mickey Mouse. They were married from 1925 until Walt's death in 1966. Contents Lillian Disney's Early Life Lillian Marie Bounds was born in Spalding, Idaho. She grew up in a town called Lapwai. Her father, Willard, worked as a blacksmith and a federal marshal. Lillian was the youngest of ten children in her family. Her family faced financial challenges. Lillian's father passed away when she was seventeen years old. After finishing high school, she moved to Lewiston with her mother. She studied at a business college for a year. In 1923, Lillian moved to southern California. She lived with her sister Hazel's family there. Meeting Walt Disney Lillian started working at the Disney Studio. She was an "ink and paint" artist and a secretary. This is where she first met Walt Disney. Marriage to Walt Disney Lillian Bounds and Walt Disney got married on July 13, 1925. Their wedding took place in Idaho at her brother's home. Lillian made her own wedding dress. Walt Disney's parents did not attend the wedding. Lillian and Walt had two daughters. Their names were Diane Marie Disney (born in 1933) and Sharon Mae Disney (born in 1936). Sharon was adopted into the family. Lillian and Walt had ten grandchildren. Seven were from Diane and her husband, Ron W. Miller. Three were from Sharon and her two husbands, Robert Brown and William Lund. Naming Mickey Mouse Lillian Disney is famous for helping to name Mickey Mouse. In 1928, she was on a train trip with Walt. Walt showed her a drawing of his new cartoon mouse. He told her he planned to name it "Mortimer Mouse." Lillian thought "Mortimer" sounded "too depressing." She suggested the name "Mickey Mouse" instead. Walt loved the idea, and the name stuck! She was very proud of this suggestion. Honoring Lillian Walt Disney honored Lillian in several ways. He named his miniature steam locomotive the "Lilly Belle." This train was part of his personal Carolwood Pacific Railroad. He also named one of the Disneyland Railroad cars the "Lilly Belle." The Walt Disney World Railroad has a locomotive named "Lilly Belle" too. These trains honor people who greatly helped the Walt Disney Company. In 1977, a paddle steamer replica was built at Walt Disney World. It was named "The Empress Lilly." Lillian Disney herself christened the boat. In 2003, Lillian was recognized as a Disney Legends. This award celebrates people who made a big impact on the Disney company. Later Life and Legacy Walt Disney passed away on December 15, 1966. He was 65 years old. Lillian later married John L. Truyens in May 1969. They were married until his death in 1981. Lillian Disney was also a generous person. In 1987, she promised $50 million to build a new concert hall. This building, the Walt Disney Concert Hall, opened in 2003. It opened six years after her death. She also helped start The California Institute of the Arts. Lillian often spoke about her marriage to Walt. She said they shared a wonderful and exciting life. She remembered him as a wonderful husband and a joyful father and grandfather. Lillian Disney had a stroke on December 15, 1997. This was exactly 31 years after Walt's death. She passed away the next morning at her home in Los Angeles. She was 98 years old.


--- ["Happy Birthday, Mother" by Diane Disney Miller] ---
The building that houses our Museum, 104 Montgomery Street, was built in 1899. Earlier that year, on February 15, a daughter was born in Spalding, Idaho, to Willard and Jeanette Bounds. Lillian Marie, my mother, was their tenth and last child. She grew up in Lapwai, Idaho, where the headquarters of the Nez Perce Tribal Reservation was located. Her father was at various times during his life an Indian scout for General Crook (this I learned from my Aunt Grace, her oldest sister), a blacksmith, and a Deputy U.S. Marshall, who once drove a wagon from Lewiston to Spalding to deliver a $626,000 payment in twenty dollar gold pieces that the U.S. government paid the Nez Perce Indians to acquire their land. (This last bit I learned from Dick Riggs in an article he wrote for the Nez Perce County Historical Society.) My mother spoke often, and fondly, of her childhood on the Reservation. Spalding as a town no longer exists, but is marked with a sign, "Site of the former town of Spalding." She attended grade school there, then high school in Lapwai, where she played basketball. Many years ago my husband's parents were on a driving trip in that part of the country, and, in conversation with a pleasant couple they'd met, Ron's mother mentioned that her son was married to Walt Disney's daughter, whose mother had come from that area. The man volunteered that he'd gone to school with mother and her siblings and shared, "Those Bounds girls were good basketball players!" That was something I hadn't heard, and I am still impressed. My grandfather died in 1916 at the age of 62 (again, thanks to Dick Riggs for that information). Mother and her mother went to live with her brother Sid, who was the Fire Chief in Lewiston. She attended Business College in Lewiston, and did some secretarial work ("I was a lousy secretary" she admitted later) before moving to Los Angeles at the urging of her sister Hazel, who was living there with her young daughter, Marjorie. A friend of Hazel's who was acquainted with Roy and Walt Disney, two brothers down the street who had a small cartoon studio, told her, "I think I can get you a job there, but promise you won't vamp the boss." Did she perhaps have designs on him? Evidently her secretarial skills were not as dismal as she thought them to be, for she was hired, and her story from this point is also my dad's story. Mother's childhood, though a happy one, was sometimes not an easy one. She adored her father, but he was not always a good provider. She described him as, "a 'good-time Charlie'... whenever he had some money he'd buy us all presents, and then the money was gone." But they did have good times together, and my father was really taken with them. They were a very different family than his own. They loved to laugh, and maybe didn't appear to take life as seriously as Elias did. Her mother lived with them in the early years of their marriage, and according to my cousin Marjorie, my dad adored her and, "treated her like a queen." My grandmother had stories to tell about the early pioneer years, and dad loved to hear them. Our Aunt Grace, who was widowed, lived with us for many years, giving my parents freedom to travel together, and travel they did. Aunt Hazel was, next to my parents and sister, the closest, dearest person to me. My mother had a long life, and we are all grateful for that. Like my dad, who eagerly anticipated having grandchildren, she adored hers and wanted to be called "Granny." All of our children and most of our grandchildren were able to know her, with the exception of the two youngest. Our youngest grandson was born in Aspen, Colorado on December 4, 1997. Mom knew of his birth, and called my son and his wife, "What a lucky baby he is to have you for his parents." She suffered her fatal stroke the next day and died that evening. Dad was very attentive to Mom's birthday, and liked it when my sister and I were too. The bronzed hat, filled with violets was a birthday gift once, but I'm certain that it wasn't the only one. He loved gags, but he was serious about her birthday. Diane Disney Miller Co-Founder, The Walt Disney Family Museum


--- [Wife, Sounding Board, and Philanthropist Lillian Bounds Disney [otd 02/15]] ---
| Lewiston, ca. 1918. J. H. Hawley photo. | Around her, the Indians still wore traditional garb and the pioneer environment dominated. While the old “Wild West” was passing, horses were still far more common than cars and trucks. As a teenager, she surely visited the “big city” – Lewiston, with perhaps 6,200 people. At that time, only the downtown area had paved streets; leaders hoped to find money to extend pavement into some residential areas. Sadly, her father died in 1916. By then most of Lillian’s nine older siblings were out making their way on their own. In 1920, the mother had a small boarding unit in Lewiston. The census recorded no occupation for Lillian, so she was probably helping her mother with the business. Three years later, she joined her sister Hazel in Los Angeles to look for work. As it happened, a friend of her sister had a job with an outfit called Disney Brothers’ Studio (it would become Walt Disney Productions in 1929). The friend was a “cel inker” – she filled in outlined figures with colored ink – and said the brothers had another opening. The job required a good eye and steady hand, and Lillian was hired. She also did some secretarial work. The studio, owned by Walt and his brother Roy, was Walt’s third attempt at a company to produce animated cartoons. The first two had “gone bust,” and this new venture had its own financial problems. The story is told that Walt sometimes asked Lillian to delay cashing her $15 weekly paycheck. The Disney brothers themselves were “batching it” in a tiny apartment. Lillian later told an interviewer, “I've always teased Walt that the reason he asked me to marry him so soon after Roy married Edna Francis, a Kansas City girl, was that he needed somebody to fix his meals.” She married the boss in July 1925; the ceremony took place in Lewiston. According to the official studio history, in 1928 Lillian made a crucial contribution to the iconic Disney story: She talked Walt out of the name "Mortimer" for his new creation, who became "Mickey" Mouse instead. | Walt and Lillian Disney, 1935. Walt Disney Family Foundation photo. | After Walt’s death, she directed funds to a worthy enterprise: the California Institute of the Arts. Walt had fostered the merger of two struggling creative organizations into "CalArts," the first degree-granting school for students of the visual and performing arts. Then, in 1987, she contributed a $50 million "down payment" for the construction of a world-class concert hall in Los Angeles. Unfortunately, numerous obstacles delayed the project. She died in December 1997, six years before construction was completed. A year before her death, Lillian provided a $100 thousand grant that helped the Nez Perce tribe buy back historic tribal artifacts. She generally avoided publicity, but indications are that numerous other donations were known only to the recipients. | References: [French] | | Lillian Disney as told to Isabella Taves, "I Live With a Genius,” McCalls magazine (February 1953). | | “Lillian Disney,” Disney Legends, The Walt Disney Company. | | “Lillian Disney Dies,” Spokesman-Review, Spokane, Washington (December 18, 1997). | | Neal Gabler, Walt Disney: The Triumph of American Imagination, Random House, New York (2006). | | Bernard Weinraub, “Walt Disney's Widow, Lillian, Dies at 98,” New York Times (December 18, 1997). |


--- [Lillian Marie Disney (Bounds) (1899 - 1997) - Genealogy - Geni.com] ---
Historical records matching Lillian Marie Disney Immediate Family - husband - son - daughter - daughter - husband - mother - father - brother - sister - brother - brother - brother About Lillian Marie Disney http://www.disneydreamer.com/Lillian.htm While Lillian Disney, wife of Company founder Walt Disney, worked behind the scenes in many ways to support the Company's growth, her most celebrated contribution is the naming of a certain animated character. In 1928, as he rode a train from New York bound for Los Angeles, Walt devised a new character to turn around a serious business setback, "Mortimer Mouse." "Not Mortimer," Lillian replied when he told her his idea. "It's too formal. How about Mickey." The rest, as they say, is history. Born in Spalding, Idaho, Lillian grew up in Lapwai, Idaho, on the Nez Perce Indian Reservation, where her father worked as a blacksmith and federal marshal. She moved to Los Angeles in 1923, and won a job at the fledgling Walt Disney Studio as a secretary and "inker" of animated cels. Lillian met the boss, who sometimes asked her not to cash her $15-a-week paycheck. Soon, the boss met her family and on July 13, 1925, they married in Lewiston, Idaho. "I think my dad fell in love with her almost immediately ... she was an independent little lady," says daughter Diane Disney Miller. Lillian traveled with her husband on many of his business trips, including the government-sponsored Good Will tour of South America in 1941, which resulted in the production of such animated features as "Saludos Amigos" and "The Three Caballeros". While raising their two daughters, Lillian served as a sounding board for her husband as he created films and the theme park that made him and his company known internationally. Lillian was a conservative balance to Walt's daring, and yet was indulgent, too, allowing him to dig a tunnel under her prized flower garden for his backyard railroad at their Holmby Hills estate. As her nephew Roy E. Disney recalls, Lillian was "always prepared to speak the truth, tough and warm and loving at the same time. She was a very special person. You couldn't help loving her and you'd never forget her ... or her hearty laugh." The publicity-shy Lillian ventured into the public arena after Walt's death in 1966 to lend support to the fulfillment of his dreams. In October 1971, she attended the dedication of Walt Disney World in Orlando, Florida, along with Company co-founder and Walt's loyal brother Roy O. Disney. "I think Walt would have approved," she said to Roy and those who helped realize her husband's dream. Eleven years later, she returned to Florida to attend the 1982 dedication of EPCOT Center. Lillian also lent support to Walt's venture into education, the multi-disciplinary California Institute of the Arts (CalArts), which opened in 1971 in Valencia. Among her gifts to the school were funds to remodel a campus theater and rename it the Walt Disney Modular Theater in 1993. On May 12, 1987, Lillian announced a gift of $50 million to build a new symphony hall designed by architect Frank Gehry in Los Angeles. A long-time patron of the arts, this was her ultimate gift to the community and to the love of her life. The Walt Disney Concert Hall, home of the Los Angeles Philharmonic, debuted in October 2003. Lillian Disney suffered a stroke on December 15, 1997, 31 years to the day after the death of her husband, and died the following day. Wikipiedia: Early years Lillian was born in Spalding, Idaho. She grew up in Lapwai, Idaho, on the Nez Perce Indian Reservation where her father worked as a blacksmith and federal marshal.[1] She had short brown hair, a slender body, and was thought to be very attractive. Lillian was working at the Disney Studio in "ink and paint" when she met Walt. She took deep pride that Walt would drive the other girls home before her, even though her stop was the closest.[citation needed] First Marriage Lillian and Walt Disney married in 1925 in Idaho at Lewiston's Episcopal Church of the Nativity (http://www.nativitylewiston.com/), however, Walt's parents could not attend. She wore a dress which she had made herself. Her cousin recalled that she giggled nervously throughout the service. She and Walt had two daughters - Diane Marie Disney and Sharon Mae Disney, the latter of whom was adopted. She was the aunt of Roy Edward Disney and had seven grandchildren, Chris Miller, Joanna Miller, Tamara Scheer, Jennifer Miller-Goff, Walter Elias Disney Miller, Ronald Miller and Victoria Brown. Her filmography includes work as an ink artist on the film Plane Crazy. She is credited with having named her husband's most famous character, Mickey Mouse, during a train trip from New York to California in 1928. Walt showed a drawing of the cartoon mouse to his wife and told her that he was going to name it "Mortimer Mouse". She replied that the name sounded "too pompous" and she was very proud to have suggested the name "Mickey Mouse" instead of Mortimer.[2] Life after Walt In 1987, Lillian Disney pledged a $50 million gift towards the construction of a new concert hall. After many delays, the Walt Disney Concert Hall opened in 2003, six years after her death. In the 1990s, reflecting on her 41 year marriage to Walt Disney, she said "We shared a wonderful, exciting life, and we loved every minute of it. He was a wonderful husband to me and wonderful and joyful father and grandfather". Lillian Disney suffered a stroke on December 15, 1997, exactly 31 years after the death of Walt Disney. She died the following morning at her home, aged 98. References ^ Disney Legends - Lillian Disney ^ Walt Disney: Conversations (Conversations With Comic Artists Series) by Kathy Merrockobamya Jackson with Walt Disney, ISBN 1-57806-713-8 page 120 Lillian Marie Disney's Timeline | 1899 | February 15, 1899 | Spalding, Nez Perce County, ID, United States | | | 1900 | 1900 | || | 1910 | 1910 Age 10 | Lapwai, Nez Perce, Idaho | | | 1920 | 1920 Age 20 | || | 1925 | March 1, 1925 | Los Angeles, California, USA | | | 1930 | 1930 Age 30 | || | 1933 | December 18, 1933 | Los Angeles, Los Angeles County, CA, United States | | | 1936 | December 31, 1936 | Los Angeles, CA, United States | | | 1940 | 1940 Age 40 | Los Angeles Township, Los Angeles, Councilmanic District 1, Los Angeles, California |
