=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[1964 Tokyo Summer Olympic Games and Seiko — Plus9Time]
The 1964 Olympics proved to be one of the most important events in the history of Seiko, with the developments and recognition from this influencing the company for many years to come. Seiko were able to prove themselves on an international stage and in doing so introduce a number of new technologies to Olympic time keeping. Becoming the Official Tokyo Games Timekeeper Different Sports Timers ...
URL: https://www.plus9time.com/blog/2021/8/2/1964-tokyo-summer-games-and-seiko

[Our Challenge to become the Official Timer of the Olympics | Seiko ...]
The 1964 Summer Olympics in Tokyo was an extremely significant event for Seiko in many senses. Following the Rome Olympic Games in 1960, the company developed instruments in cooperation with group companies to promote the "Tokyo Olympic Games" as a top priority. Next, by acting as the Official Timer of the Tokyo Olympic Games, Seiko gained the opportunity to disseminate Seiko as a global ...
URL: https://museum.seiko.co.jp/en/seiko_history/milestone/milestone_01/

[The History of Seiko - Seiko Vintage Watches South Africa]
The 1960s marked Seiko's rise to international prominence, fueled by relentless innovation. 1960: Launch of Grand Seiko, a high-end line focused on precision, elegance, and durability, competing with Swiss luxury brands. 1964: Seiko became the official timer of the Tokyo Olympics, debuting its precision timing equipment on the global stage.
URL: https://seikovintage.co.za/the-history-of-seiko/

[A history of sports timekeeping - europastar.com]
Bolstered by these successes, Seiko became the official timekeeper of the International Association of Athletic Federations (IAAF) starting with the World Indoor Games in Paris in 1985 and the World Athletics Championships in Rome in 1987 – a mandate it still holds.
URL: https://www.europastar.com/the-watch-files/watchmaking-in-japan/1004089786-sports-timekeeping.html

[Seiko Watches - timelyclassic.com]
Technological Revolution: 1960-1980 1973: Introduced the world's first LCD quartz watch with a six-digit digital display. 1960: Launched the Grand Seiko, a luxury line to compete with Swiss watches. 1964: Official timekeeper for the Tokyo Olympics. 1969: Released the Seiko Astron, the world's first quartz wristwatch. Revolutionized the industry by offering unmatched accuracy and ...
URL: https://timelyclassic.com/japanese-watchmaking/seiko/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [1964 Tokyo Summer Olympic Games and Seiko — Plus9Time] ---
1964 Tokyo Summer Olympic Games and Seiko /The 1964 Olympics proved to be one of the most important events in the history of Seiko, with the developments and recognition from this influencing the company for many years to come. Seiko were able to prove themselves on an international stage and in doing so introduce a number of new technologies to Olympic time keeping. Becoming the Official Timekeeper On May 29th 1959 it was announced that Tokyo would host the 1964 Olympics, the first time the Games were to be held in Asia. As soon as this announcement was made Shoji Hattori (Seiko Corp. President 1946-74) decided that Seiko should handle the official timing duties for the Tokyo Olympics. Hattori-san sent a telegram to Saburou Inoue, the Watch Design Section Manager at Daini-Seikosha, instructing him to visit the 1960 Rome Olympics to observe how the timekeeping was conducted. Inoue-san did not go to Rome but instead tasked one of his staff to attend. Inoue-san expressed his concerns that it would not be possible for Seiko to create the required time keeping devices as the games were just four years away and Seiko did not have the required experience in sports timing. Hattori-san did not accept this response and over the next few weeks it became clear that he could not be swayed in his plans. To determine what would be required to produce the systems necessary for the Games the engineers examined the various timing methods and equipment used for international events at that time. All key timing was conducted by human operators, and as there were commonly slight variations between the recorded times, it was standard practice to use multiple operators and average the results, to provide the best accuracy. It was thought that the slight variations between recorded times was due to the reflexes and skills of the operators, so many sporting bodies had processes to certify operators who would conduct official timekeeping duties.[1] The lack of history and preconceptions of sports timing from Seiko allowed the staff to view the issues facing timekeepers from a different perspective than established manufacturers. Inoue-san and his team took multiple examples of the standard stopwatches used at the time and produced a machine to mechanically operate them concurrently, eliminating the human element from the timing process. They found that even when the stopwatches were started and stopped at exactly the same time they would commonly show different results, indicating that it was not the operators but the watches themselves that were in part to blame for timing differences. After various experiments and examining the design of the watches the team at Daini Seikosha determined the differences in timing were caused by the balance wheel rotation being at different points when the watch was operated.[2] To resolve this issue the team attached a heart shaped cam to the balance staff ensuring that the balance was always started and stopped consistently in the optimal position.[3] [3a] The heart cam was proven to significantly increase the accuracy and consistency of the stopwatches and the design was eventually patented in Japan, the US and the UK. A number of other improvements were made to the design of both the movement and casing with the dial fixed, and hands intentionally bent enhancing readability. In September 1962 the Olympic Technical Committee met at a track and field competition in Belgrade, Yugoslavia, to determine the official timer for the Tokyo Olympics. Seiko sent Masatoshi Tohyama, the Research Section Manager, to the meeting to demonstrate Seiko’s offerings and put forward their case to be considered for the official timer role. Tohyama-san took with him six examples of both the 1/5th and 1/10th second model stopwatches that had been created. At the meeting in Belgrade the stopwatches were tested by members of the Olympic Technical committee, Mr Donald Pain, Honorary Secretary International Association of Athletics Federation (IAAF), and Adriaan Paulen, President of the Dutch Athletics Federation, who would later become IAAF president in 1976. Mr Paulen tested the stopwatches by selecting a pair of watches and operating them simultaneously in each hand. He tested the watches for a few seconds, then a few minutes and finally near an hour of operation. When he stopped the watches they matched perfectly for the first two tests and were only showing a difference of 1/10th of a second over the longest duration.[4] Paulen, who had a strong technical background, was very surprised by the performance of the watches and asked for an explanation as to how this had been achieved. At the conclusion of the meeting the preliminary decision to appoint Seiko as the official timekeeper was made. The technical committee stated that “We are not assigning official timekeeping to a Japanese manufacturer because the Olympics will be held in Tokyo, but because these are actual functional stopwatches, backed up with solid theory.” [5] The official notification that Seiko was the timekeeper for the Games was only received in May 1963, with the competition starting just 17 months later in October 1964.[6] More information on the 89ST series of stopwatches that were created for the Olympics and used in the evaluations can be found in this article - 89ST Series Stopwatches - Olympic Sports Timers Different Sports Timers Created for the Games In addition to the stopwatches created for the Olympic evaluation Seiko had to develop many other timing and display devices to meet the needs of the Games. With a short window available, teams across the multiple Seiko companies were pushed to the limits to meet the deadline. The production of the different devices was divided according to the specialities required, with Daini Seikosha producing stopwatches, electronic timing instruments for swimming, and the printing timers for rowing, canoeing, swimming, and athletics events. Suwa Seiko produced the Crystal Chronometers and worked in conjunction with Seikosha Clock Factory on the printing timers to be used for cycling, modern pentathlon, and equestrian events. The Seikosha Clock Factory also produced the large clocks for spectators and athletes.[7] A summary of all of the different time keeping devices produced by Seiko for the Games can be found in the article - Seiko Timers for the Tokyo Olympics - 1964 Technologies Introduced at the 1964 Tokyo Olympics The 1964 Tokyo Olympic Games were referred to as the “Technology Games” or as one British journalist described them at the time the “Science Fiction” games.[8] There were numerous technologies that were introduced for the first time that enhanced the experiences for both athletes and spectators. These were the first games that provided live coverage to around a third of the world via a newly developed satellite transmission system. Not only were the events broadcast live but the Opening Ceremony, wrestling, volleyball, gymnastics and judo were even in color. Some of the new technology on show for viewers included slow-motion video and photo finish results. The technology used in the games was also extensively on show with the timing systems employed. Many fans of Seiko will know that the Crystal Chronometer was used as an official timekeeping device during the Games but this was not the only quartz timer that was used at the games. People may not realize that the printing timers used in many of the different events also contained their own quartz timing systems. These were synchronized to an external starter such as an electronic starting pistol or photo-electric sensor. The timer in the printing system could then also be stopped by external signals from sensors or remote control devices. The printers could then either immediately print out the results as they occurred or store these in memory and print the results at the conclusion of the race. This compact printing mechanism was later developed to become the basis for the printer business of Seko Epson. In addition to the printing timers the photo-finish system also utilized a quartz based timer that allowed the time to be recorded onto the film with an accuracy of 1/100th of a second. Quartz timing systems were also found in the marathon clocks that were distributed along the race course. One event that the new timing system proved invaluable was during the women’s 80m hurdles. In the final, three competitors appeared to all finish the race at the same time with a result of 10.5 seconds. To separate the winners the officials turned to the photo finish system that also had an integrated quartz timing unit. The photo-finish showed that Karin Balzer from Germany finished in the time 10.54, Teresa Barbara Ciepla from Poland had a time of 10.55, and Australian Pamela Kilborn finishing in 10.56. The official results for the event were recorded for all athletes as 10.5 seconds, as that is the level of precision the IAAF recorded at the time, but the official ranking and medals were determined by the timekeeping system results.[8a] Another technology that was tested at the Tokyo Games was the use of swimming touchpads to electronically record finish and lap times of swimmers. At the 1960 Rome Games the men's 100 meter final was thrown into controversy with Australian John Devitt and American Lance Larson both appearing to finish simultaneously. At the time the official timekeeping was conducted by three first place judges and three second place judges all using mechanical stopwatches. Of the first place judges two of the three recorded Devitt as the winner, but from the second place judges two also ranked Devitt as the second place finisher, thus splitting their votes in a three to three tie for first place. Despite the separate timing officials assigned to each lane having a lower average time for Larson the gold medal was awarded to Devitt.[9] Touch pads for swimming had been invented in 1957 by American Bill Parkinson[10] but they had a number of problems accurately detecting touches and differentiating between swimmers' touches and splashes or water. The technology evolved and the pool for the Tokyo Games became the first Olympic pool that was modified to allow the electronic sensors to be fitted.[11] Despite being tentatively accepted for use by the Olympic Organizing Committee[12] there was some push back from the international sporting federations, so it would not be until 1967, at the Pan-American games, that touchpads were officially used for international competition.[13] The Mexico Olympics in the following year (1968) were the first time that swimming touchpads were used at an Olympic level. The Seiko Digital Stop Clock was also introduced for the first time at the Tokyo Games. This was an easily portable quartz timing unit that could display times to 1/100th of a second. The unit was operated via a remote control that mimicked a traditional stopwatch allowing the device to be started, stopped and reset, as well as lap times taken and displayed on the screen. The unit had an accuracy of 0.007 seconds per hour and could record times up to 9 hours, 59 minutes, 59 seconds, and 99/100th sec. Thirty units of the digital stop clock were used to time various athletic events. Seiko Olympic Watch and Clock models offered for sale Seiko offered a number of models that were produced with an Olympic theme. To appeal to the large number of international visitors at the games the 6217-7000 World Time seems like an obvious choice. With many people travelling and wanting to easily determine their home time the World Time watch would have been a perfect solution. The other watch style that was offered was the one button Crown Chronographs that also seems a logical choice to be associated with sporting events. The Crown Chronograph models came in three different calibres. There was the simple 5719 model and the 5717 with an added date complication. Fifty units of the Crown Chronographs were presented to officials involved with the Olympic Torch relay.[14] A third chronograph model that was produced exclusively for sale during the Games was the 5718-8000 Counter Chrono. This model has a distinctive two digit tally-counter at the 12 o’clock position that is operated by the buttons on the left side of the case. The top left button advances the counter by one and the bottom left button advances the counter by ten. The top button on the right side of the watch starts and stops the chronograph while the lower button resets it. The lower dial has the chronograph minutes and the watches seconds display. The counter also advances at midnight, so it can be used as a date display. These watches were sold at the Olympic Village and had a retail price of 38,000円 [14a] (almost 4.5x times the price of the basic 5719 model). Below are the English pages from the 5718 Counter Chronograph user guide. Thanks to Erik Strickland (@eriksstrickland) for sharing these images. All of the models produced for sale for the Olympics feature an Olympic Flame Seiko logo on the case back. The flame design was also used on the dial of a portable alarm clock with an Olympic design. This has a discus competitor on the top and a number of different sports represented around the outside of the case. The top of the case rotates to the side to stop the clock rolling when positioned on a table. This alarm clock had the model number UB-525 with a retail price of 2,500円. Advertising and Promotional Literature As you would expect, Seiko used their time keeping role at the Olympics to help raise the international awareness of the brand and their capabilities. Seiko also heavily promoted their association with the Olympics in the domestic market. The Tokyo Olympics Official Souvenir guide features a few pages discussing the timekeeping devices used for the games with images of a number of various models. When you first open the guide you see a full page Seiko advert on the inner cover. This has an image of someone holding a 1/10th of the second 89ST stopwatch and this same image was used on the front cover of the October 1964 Seiko News dealer newsletter. Seiko promoted the sporting connection throughout the year to their dealers with the covers of the 1964 Seiko News issues all having a sporting theme. In the January Seiko News issue there was a table showing what types of sports timers Seiko was supplying for each of the different sporting events. Seiko encouraged their dealers to also publicise their involvement with the Games and presented numerous suggestions to dealers for store window and counter displays with an Olympic theme. One promotional item from Seiko was a poster that featured an 89ST stopwatch along with the flags of the different countries participating at the Games. This poster can be seen on the store window in the photo above. A high resolution version of this poster can be found in this article - Seiko 1964 Olympic Promotional Poster Seiko also directly targeted the public in a range of different experiential events held at local department stores. These showcased the different timing devices and even included examples of their large clocks that would be viewed by spectators and athletes at the venues.[15] The sports timers were also included as part of the Seiko exhibit at the 6th Osaka International Trade Fair. Visitors could see the company's watch line up, stopwatches and a large second clock that was to be used at the Olympic venues.[16] On the international stage Seiko highlighted their timekeepers at the 1964 World Expo in New York where visitors could try out the stopwatches and see a range of the company's watches.[17] International advertising highlighting their involvement in the Olympic timing was also produced. This included an advert where they proudly stated they were “The timers of every event in the Tokyo Olympics”. A full version of this advert can be found in the article - Advert: Seiko International Olympic Timers. There was also an advertisement in the international edition of Life Magazine discussing the quantity and quality of Seiko timepieces used for the Olympics. The Seiko World Time model was also sold and advertised internationally. Seiko used their Olympic timing in their advertising by including a reference to the company being “The Official Timer of the 1964 World Olympics”. This tag line can be seen in the advertisement shown here - Advert: Seiko World Time advertising for US Market Publicising their role as the official Tokyo Olympic timekeeper Seiko produced a newspaper advertisement that showed the different types of devices created for the Games. This advertisement was recognized with the highest corporate advertising prize at the 1964 Nikkei Advertising Awards. Seikos competition clock television commercial was also presented with the Grand Prix Award at the 4th Annual ACC and CM Award Competition.[18] To explain how the timing was to be conducted at the Olympics Seiko produced a number of guides and brochures cataloging the different devices to be used. In a thirty four page brochure created for the Japanese market Seiko explains how the different sports will be timed and the timekeeping equipment to be used. This brochure can be seen here - Brochure: Seiko - See the Tokyo Olympics (1964) Confidence in the timekeeping equipment was also important to the competitors and international sporting associations that were involved with the Games. Seiko produced a folder containing information about the timekeepers and how they are to be used for the events. The folder contained a pen, notepad, and a 28 page brochure in English, French, and Spanish. These folders were distributed to the different sporting organisations attending the Olympics. More details of the folder and a copy of the included brochure can be found in the article - 1964 Tokyo Olympics Seiko Folder & Booklet An item distributed to the official timekeeping staff at the Olympics was a green enameled pin that had the Seikosha company logo surrounded by a wreath. These were likely provided to the 170 staff that were part of the official “Seiko Olympic Games Clock Support Team” that was announced on the 8th of September in an event showcasing the timekeeping devices to the competition organizations and officials from countries around the world.[19] Another enamelled pin that was created for promotion of Seiko’s involvement in the Games was this blue pin. I am not exactly sure of the distribution for these models but I have seen numerous examples over the years, so I assume that a high quantity of units were produced for dealers or other key customers. Conclusion The 1964 Tokyo Olympics proved to be a very successful event for Seiko. They helped Seiko to promote their products to the world and raise awareness of the brand internationally. The technologies that were pulled forward due to the deadline of the Olympics can be directly connected to the future strengths and successes of the companies. The advances and experiences with quartz timing would have undoubtedly helped to advance Seiko's expertise in this area and help them to release the first publicly available quartz watch just five years later. The technology developed for the printing timers also can be directly linked to the success of Epson’s printing technologies and to the name of the company. Seiko also established a dedicated sports timing group that grew from their experiences with the 1964 Olympics. Seiko has been the official timer for the 1972 Sapporo winter Olympic Games, 1992 summer Barcelona Olympic Games, 1994 winter Lillehammer Olympic Games, 1998 winter Nagano Olympic Games, and the 2002 winter Salt Lake City Olympic Games. They are also the official timer for numerous major sporting events and one of only a handful of companies that act as official timers for international level competitions. The success of Seiko’s timing can best be summed up by the acknowledgment from Olympic Organizing Committee in their official report on the 1964 Games. In the report they stated “In making selection of judging devices, new high precision electronic detecting devices were adopted only after strict national inspection in terms of the international rules. As a result no material problems arose concerning the order of arrival at the goals or timing of races throughout the entire Tokyo Games. The smoothness of this operation can be attributed both to the technical perfection of the equipment and to the careful advance training of personnel concerned.” [20] References [1] Goodall, John. A Journey in Time, The Remarkable Story of Seiko. Seiko Watch Corporation, 2003, pp.95 [2] Tatsuya, Ishihara. “About Start Stop Error of Stopwatch.” Japanese Clock Journal, Vol.29, 1964, pp.10 [3] Seiko Instruments Inc. Time measuring instrument. US3168803A, United States Patent and Trademark Office, 9 February 1965. Google Patents, https://patents.google.com/patent/US3168803A/en?oq=US3168803A [3a] Komaki, Shoichiro. Lectures on Mechanical Watch. University of Tokyo Press, 2014, pp.218 [4] The Seiko Book. Town Mook, Tokuma Shoten, 1999, pp.151 [5] Goodall, John. A Journey in Time, The Remarkable Story of Seiko. Seiko Watch Corporation, 2003, pp.97 [6] [7] "Our Challenge to become the Official Timer of the Olympics | Seiko ....", https://museum.seiko.co.jp/en/seiko_history/milestone/milestone_01/. Accessed 29 Jul. 2021. [8] “Technological innovations at the Olympic Games Tokyo 1964”, https://olympics.com/ioc/legacy/tokyo-1964/technological-innovations-at-the-olympic-games-tokyo-1964. Accessed 31 Jul. 2021 [8a] “Seiko—Seizing the Moment, Making a Difference as Official Timer at the 1964 Tokyo Olympics”, https://theolympians.co/2019/10/19/seiko-seizing-the-moment-making-a-difference-as-official-timer-at-the-1964-tokyo-olympics/. Accessed 31 Jul. 2021 [9] “Biography John DEVITT”, https://olympics.com/en/athletes/john-devitt. Accessed on 31Jul. 2021 [10] “History - When were touchpad sensors integrated into swimming?”, https://fstormonpassassessment.weebly.com/history.html. Accessed on 31Jul. 2021 [11] “How Technology Used In Tokyo Olympics 1964 Which Like Never Before?”, https://www.britishhouserio.com/how-technology-used-in-tokyo-olympics-1964-which-like-never-before/. Accessed on 31Jul. 2021 [12] The Games of the XVIII Olympiad Tokyo 1964, The Official Report of the Organizing Committee, Organizing Committee for the Games of the XVIII Olympiad, 1966, pp.176 [13] “The First Touchpads”, https://www.omegawatches.com/chronicle/1967-the-first-touchpads. Accessed on 31Jul. 2021 [14] The Games of the XVIII Olympiad Tokyo 1964, The Official Report of the Organizing Committee, Organizing Committee for the Games of the XVIII Olympiad, 1966, pp.67 [14a] "Seiko Chronograph 21 Jewels", Suwa Seikosha Company Magazine No.107, Suwa Seikosha, 1964, pp.33 [15] “An eye-catching Seiko Stopwatch”, Seiko News No.6 1964, Hattori Watch Shop, pp.20 [16] “The 6th Osaka International Trade Fair will be held”, Seiko News No.6 1964, Hattori Watch Shop, pp.21 [17] “News from the New York World Exposition”, Seiko News No.7 1964, Hattori Watch Shop, pp.15 [18] “Seiko Newspaper Advertisement at Nikkei Advertising Awards”, Seiko News No.12 1964, Hattori Watch Shop, pp.23 [19] “Olympic Competition Clock Officially Launched”, Seiko News No.10 1964, Hattori Watch Shop, pp.24 [20] The Games of the XVIII Olympiad Tokyo 1964, The Official Report of the Organizing Committee, Organizing Committee for the Games of the XVIII Olympiad, 1966, pp.176


--- [Our Challenge to become the Official Timer of the Olympics | Seiko ...] ---
～Be Seiko of the World～ The 1964 Summer Olympics in Tokyo was an extremely significant event for Seiko in many senses. Following the Rome Olympic Games in 1960, the company developed instruments in cooperation with group companies to promote the “Tokyo Olympic Games” as a top priority. Next, by acting as the Official Timer of the Tokyo Olympic Games, Seiko gained the opportunity to disseminate Seiko as a global brand. Seiko’s role in 1964 also spurred the development of many innovative products, including the world’s first quartz watch Astron in 1969. Sales grew globally. Tokyo elected as the host of the 1964 Summer Olympics: Start from zero When Tokyo was elected to become the host city for the 1964 Olympic Games during the IOC Session in Munich in May 1959, Japan exploded in exultation as a country emerging from postwar reconstruction to a stage of rapid economic growth. The Organizing Committee conceived of “Japan-made Olympics” and “Scientific Olympics” themes with the eager cooperation of industries. Shoji Hattori, the President of Seiko at that time, expressed strong passion and led the next Official Timer of the Olympic Games with firm resolve, closely studying reports on the 17th Olympic Games held in Rome in 1960. The official timers for the Olympic Games had been dominated by the Swiss watchmakers Omega and Longines since the Los Angeles Olympic Games in 1932. Would Seiko be capable of developing sports timers? If so, would it be internationally recognized and officially adopted? The company was sure of almost nothing. Development within a limited time frame People in the Seiko Group were not well versed in sports timing in those days, nor did Seiko own any stopwatches for sports, the mainstream timing instrument. With only limited time remaining, the three Seiko Group companies started developing instruments in 1961. Each company took up different responsibilities for the project. | Company | Products | |---|---| | Seikosha Clock Factory | ・Large instruments, including large clocks for spectators ・Printing timers* (for cycling, modern pentathlon, and equestrian events) | | Daini Seikosha | ・Stopwatches ・Electronic timing instruments for swimming ・Printing timers (for rowing, canoeing, swimming, and athletics events) | | Suwa Seikosha | ・Crystal chronometers ・Printing timers* (for cycling, modern pentathlon, and equestrian events) | ※Printing timers (for cycling, modern pentathlon, and equestrian events) were produced jointly by the two companies. The stories behind the development of the new instruments follow below: - STORY 01 Development of an accurate stopwatch - Seiko was producing around 6,000 stopwatches every month by 1960, but none were exclusively for sports. The company had grabbed a stake in the stopwatch market alongside leaders such as Omega and Longines by innovating several technologies, mainly its “stop mechanism using a heart cam.” After consulting with sports associations, reverse engineering sports-specific stopwatches by other makers, and learning through trial and error, Seiko finally figured out how to use the “heart cam” to solve the mechanical errors inherent to all stopwatches. The stopwatch completed in August 1962 was tested by the IAAF (International Association of Athletics Federations) Technical Committee held in Belgrade in the following month. The test was performed by an IAAF Council member with a stopwatch in each hand. The tester simultaneously started the stopwatches, then simultaneously stopped them several seconds later, several minutes later, and about an hour later. The time difference between them was then checked. The times indicated by the stopwatches differed by only 0.1 second, demonstrating an accuracy that drew high praise. The stopwatches were accepted as “suitable for use for the Olympic Games and other international competitions.” Seiko’s stopwatches were then used on a trial basis for the major competitions of various sports and recognized by various sports associations. In May 1963, the Organizing Committee adopted a resolution to select Seiko as the Official Timer for the forthcoming Tokyo Olympic Games. - STORY 02 Development of a small quartz clock - In 1958, Seiko developed and delivered the crystal oscillator master clock as a time signal device for radio and TV stations. The timepiece was 2.1 meters tall, the size of a big locker, too large to permit easy transport. Quartz clocks were installed for use at the national stadium, swimming pool, basketball gymnasiums, and other venues, and were to remain there as permanent fixtures after the Olympic Games. For smaller venues and events further afield, Seiko developed the world’s first portable quartz clock, the Crystal Chronometer (QC-951), a timepiece that ran without an AC power supply and had a daily error of only 0.2 seconds. Seiko also realized a plan to develop a stopwatch for measuring long periods at a time neither LCDs nor LEDs were available as display element. The world’s first crystal oscillator digital stop clock was born. The crystal stop clock illuminated the midget lamps of seven-digit numbers to be displayed at a 1/100 second rate. The world record time of 2:12:11.2 set by Abebe Bikila, the winner of marathon, was measured by this digital stop clock. Although there had been some sports clocks incorporating crystal technology before, the Official Timer of the 1964 Tokyo Olympic Games was the first company successful in using quartz watches and clocks for all of the major Olympics events. - STORY 03 Development of an operable and visible large clock and display - Olympic sports can be divided into various patterns. For some events, like swimming, outcomes are decided by the timing of the athletes’ arrival at a finish line. For others, two teams or individuals compete to score within a game period. For the former, accuracy is most important. For the latter, large displays must be provided to show the remaining time and scores to the spectators and athletes themselves. Seiko therefore developed large clocks and display units activated manually or interconnected with starter pistols, phototube equipment, and wireless devices, depending on the type of sport. Olympic success at becoming the "Seiko of the world" Seiko deployed a total of 36 models, 1,278 timing instruments (including the abovementioned), and 172 staff members to support success of the Tokyo Olympic Games in 1964. By performing outstandingly under the “Japan-made Olympics” and “Scientific Olympics” banners, Seiko gained an international reputation for its technological capabilities. The company image dramatically improved. The Tokyo Olympic Games generated a global sales expansion for Seiko products.


--- [The History of Seiko - Seiko Vintage Watches South Africa] ---
The History of Seiko: A Legacy of Innovation Seiko’s journey began in the late 19th century and has since established the brand as a pioneer in watchmaking. From humble beginnings in Japan to becoming a globally recognized leader in horology, Seiko’s history is rich with groundbreaking achievements and enduring craftsmanship. The Origins (1881–1924) - 1881: Seiko’s story started when Kintaro Hattori, a 21-year-old entrepreneur, opened a shop in Tokyo to repair and sell clocks. - 1892: Hattori expanded his business by founding the Seikosha Factory (“House of Exquisite Workmanship”), where he produced wall clocks and pocket watches. - 1913: Seikosha introduced Laurel, Japan’s first domestically produced wristwatch, marking the country’s entry into modern horology. - 1924: The first watch bearing the Seiko name was produced, signifying a new era for the brand. Rise to Global Recognition (1930s–1950s) - During this period, Seiko focused on refining its craftsmanship and expanding its product line. - 1937: Seiko introduced the Marvel, a highly reliable mechanical wristwatch, cementing its reputation for quality in Japan. - 1956: The release of Seiko’s first automatic wristwatch, the Seiko Automatic, showcased its innovation in self-winding movements. - 1959: The introduction of the Gyro Marvel featured a groundbreaking self-dater mechanism. Innovation Era: Quartz Revolution (1960s–1980s) The 1960s marked Seiko’s rise to international prominence, fueled by relentless innovation. - 1960: Launch of Grand Seiko, a high-end line focused on precision, elegance, and durability, competing with Swiss luxury brands. - 1964: Seiko became the official timer of the Tokyo Olympics, debuting its precision timing equipment on the global stage. - 1965: The first Japanese diver’s watch, the Seiko 62MAS, was introduced, setting the stage for Seiko’s dominance in dive watch technology. - 1969: The revolutionary Quartz Astron 35SQ became the world’s first quartz wristwatch, reshaping the global watch industry with unparalleled accuracy. - 1969: Introduction of the Seiko 5 Sports series, offering robust, affordable, and stylish automatic watches. During the Quartz Crisis of the 1970s, Seiko’s quartz technology dominated the market, challenging traditional mechanical watchmakers. Diversification and Technological Milestones (1980s–1990s) - 1982: Seiko introduced the world’s first TV watch, demonstrating its forward-thinking approach to wearable technology. - 1983: Launch of the Seiko Kinetic system, a revolutionary movement powered by the wearer’s motion, combining quartz accuracy with mechanical convenience. - 1988: The Spring Drive, combining quartz precision with a mechanical mainspring, was first conceptualized, although it wasn’t released until 1999. Seiko in the 21st Century Seiko embraced both traditional craftsmanship and cutting-edge technology, catering to a wide range of customers. - 1999: The first Spring Drive watch was introduced, offering unmatched precision and a unique gliding seconds hand. - 2010s: Seiko restructured its brand hierarchy, positioning Grand Seiko as an independent luxury brand. - 2018: Seiko celebrated the 50th anniversary of its first automatic chronograph with limited-edition reissues. - 2020s: Seiko continues to innovate with advancements in Solar technology, GPS synchronization, and premium mechanical movements. Key Contributions to Watchmaking - Quartz Revolution: Seiko’s Quartz Astron redefined accuracy and affordability, making wristwatches accessible to the masses. - Diver’s Watches: Models like the 62MAS, 6105, and modern Prospex series set benchmarks for durability and underwater performance. - Grand Seiko: Established a reputation for creating watches with extraordinary precision, aesthetics, and craftsmanship. - Seiko 5 Series: Known for automatic movements, robust build, and affordability, making high-quality watches available to all. Seiko’s Legacy Today Seiko remains a pioneer in watchmaking, known for its innovation and accessibility. The company produces watches for every audience, from entry-level mechanical watches to high-end masterpieces under the Grand Seiko and Credor lines. With over a century of innovation and heritage, Seiko continues to be a driving force in the global watch industry. Seiko’s motto, “Always one step ahead of the rest,” perfectly encapsulates its relentless pursuit of excellence in both craftsmanship and technology.


--- [A history of sports timekeeping - europastar.com] ---
n 1964, Seiko already had a long and rich history behind it in Japan as a precursor of the watchmaking tradition in that island state. But the brand was seeking a more international thrust. The Olympic Games held in Tokyo that year, a symbol of rebirth and a showcase for the ’new‘, post-war Japan, provided the perfect opportunity. Shoji Hattori went all out for it and obtained the mandate to time the competitions. It was a watershed moment in the brand’s history. Because these Olympics also aimed to be the first ‘technological’ games, and on that count Seiko delivered… “Just imagine: no fewer than 1,278 devices were designed especially for the competition!” exclaims Robert Wilson, a British veteran of the Japanese brand and one of the best ’bridgebuilders’ between the European and Nippon watchmaking cultures. "The company’s reputation skyrocketed. The creation of a new generation of chronometers was enough to convince the sports establishment of the time, who hadn’t even heard of the company before!” Seiko would subsequently be selected as timekeeper for a further five Olympic Games (as well as numerous Asian and Commonwealth Games) – until the mandate went to Omega and the Swatch Group subsidiary, Swiss Timing. We’ll come back to that in the next episode of this series on sports timekeeping. From quartz to printer But back to 1964: those Olympic Games triggered a technological leap at Seiko in several respects. Certain innovations were subsequently applied to the production of regular watches. Here are some of the most important ones: a new generation of high-precision chronometers; the first electronic display board; and the first portable quartz chronometer, the precision of which, paradoxically, many people mistrusted! On another level, as information technology developed the results had to be supplied to journalists faster. That was when the company first began producing printers, resulting in the creation of Epson, which today is by far the most important business line of the Seiko-Epson Corporation. Bolstered by these successes, Seiko became the official timekeeper of the International Association of Athletic Federations (IAAF) starting with the World Indoor Games in Paris in 1985 and the World Athletics Championships in Rome in 1987 – a mandate it still holds. “Since then, we’ve covered 150 competitions, including the World Championships in London this year, with 2,034 athletes from 200 countries in 47 disciplines,” says an emphatic Robert Wilson. “Our Seiko Timing Services structure supplies these services to the IAAF free of charge. We pay a small amount of sponsoring, but it’s a fraction of the cost of the equipment." A crack team And on that subject, Europa Star had the chance of going backstage and seeing how the timekeeping was done at the 2017 London World Athletics Championships. The dedicated team is made up of 60 engineers, mostly British, as well as Japanese. The equipment fits into eight containers and it’s not cheap... One scoreboard costs a hefty 500,000 dollars and Seiko deploys no fewer than eight during the championships, all in the highly recognisable yellow ‘official timekeeper’ colour of such competitions. This one, notably, marked the last official appearance of the legendary Jamaican sprinter Usain Bolt (world record holder in the flagship disciplines of the 100 and 200 metres). Of course, backstage, in front of the screens that line the box reserved for Seiko’s timekeepers – who are in permanent contact with the race officials – you soon realise that the stopwatch of yore has long been replaced by an entirely automated measuring system, which is, moreover, increasingly digitalised. In a fraction of a second, the results of the competitions are displayed on the giant screens placed around London’s Olympic stadium. In a fraction of a second, the results of the competitions are displayed on the giant screens placed around London’s Olympic stadium. The spectators, whether in the stadium or in front of their TV, don’t like to be kept waiting! But they may have to wait a little longer for confirmation of the actual result, which explains the minor adjustments that may occur between the times issued immediately afterwards and the official results. A few graphics at the end of this article show the technologies that Seiko covers today, from starting system to photo finish (note that it’s an athlete’s torso that counts for the result, it’s not worth stretching your arms out), and in between that measurement of distances and wind speed, and the times of the marathon runners who run outside the stadium equipped with a transponder. One general trend is becoming apparent quite apart from the computerisation of procedures: video installations are increasingly ubiquitous and Seiko is a pioneer in this type of innovation. What’s the return on investment? A dedicated team, ultra-sophisticated equipment, coverage of numerous competitions… but what does Seiko get in return? “There’s no real way of measuring the return on investment,” replies the experienced Robert Wilson. “At the Olympic Games in Barcelona in 1992 I really noticed a clear correlation between our timekeeping of the competitions and a sales boom, especially in Spain. That’s no longer the case today.” This business is not a profit centre for Seiko, unlike at Swiss Timing, for example. So why do they persist in doing it? “First of all for logical reasons of visibility, with 700,000 people at the stadium over ten days and an accumulated TV and online audience of 6 billion people for the World Championships! Our logo is in full view on the screens and we also issue a special watch for the occasion.” There are also ‘sentimental’ reasons, as Robert Wilson goes on to explain: “All these instruments can lead to innovations, like they did in 1964, which was a historic milestone in our development; so sport is a part of our history and our identity and we want to give something back to this community that has helped us so much." In actual fact, Seiko has the capacity to cover many more competitions: “If, like us, you have the wherewithal to time swimming and athletics, you can time anything, from cycling to motorsports and regattas!" To their great regret, the 2020 Olympic Games in Tokyo will not be timed by Seiko like the historic Games of 1964. So the return to home ground will have to wait a little longer. But the Japanese watchmakers are known for their perseverance and long-term vision – unlike their Swiss counterparts, very often… So the watchword is – patience!


--- [Seiko Watches - timelyclassic.com] ---
The history of Seiko watches is a fascinating journey through innovation, craftsmanship, and industry disruption. Here’s a concise overview of Seiko’s evolution: Origins: 1881–1924 1881: Kintaro Hattori opened a watch and jewelry shop in Tokyo at age 21. 1892: Founded Seikosha, a factory producing wall clocks. 1913: Released Japan’s first wristwatch, the Laurel. Early Developments: 1924–1959 1956: Released Japan’s first self-winding wristwatch. 1924: First watch branded “Seiko” launched. 1930s–50s: Seiko became a dominant Japanese watchmaker, emphasizing precision and design. Technological Revolution: 1960–1980 1973: Introduced the world’s first LCD quartz watch with a six-digit digital display. 1960: Launched the Grand Seiko, a luxury line to compete with Swiss watches. 1964: Official timekeeper for the Tokyo Olympics. 1969: Released the Seiko Astron, the world’s first quartz wristwatch. Revolutionized the industry by offering unmatched accuracy and affordability. Diversification and Global Growth: 1980–2000 1988: Introduced Kinetic technology (generates power from motion). Expanded into kinetic, solar, and multifunctional quartz watches. 1982: Launched TV watch (worn by James Bond in Octopussy). Modern Era: 2000–Present - Focused on innovation, luxury, and craftsmanship. - Continued growth of Grand Seiko as an independent luxury brand (became independent in 2017). - Developed Spring Drive, a unique movement combining mechanical and quartz tech. - Increased emphasis on eco-friendly movements like solar and kinetic. Iconic Seiko Lines - Seiko 5: Affordable, durable, automatic watches. - Grand Seiko: Precision luxury with high-end finishing. - Prospex: Professional sports and dive watches. - Presage: Elegant, mechanical dress watches with Japanese artistry. - Astron: GPS solar watches for world travelers.
