=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[10 Largest Islands in Indonesia (+Map) - Touropia]
Indonesia is the largest cluster of islands in the world, made up of an incredible collection of no fewer than 14,000 jungle-clad islands floating off the coast of Asia. Five islands are considered major islands due to their massive size, and the rest are split up between 30 smaller Indonesian archipelagos.
URL: https://www.touropia.com/largest-islands-in-indonesia/

[Biggest Islands In Indonesia - WorldAtlas]
The many islands of Indonesia contributed to the socioeconomic advances in the country with raw materials exports that eventually resulted in high aspirations of state formation, economic integration, and globalization. Today, Indonesia is a world leader in the production of rice, coffee, tea, rubber, and spices. The Biggest Islands Of Indonesia
URL: https://www.worldatlas.com/articles/biggest-islands-in-indonesia.html

[10 Largest Islands In Indonesia - Tripkrt Holidays]
Apr 2, 2024 · Papua Island is the second-largest island in Indonesia and the world’s second-largest island, with a total area of 786,000 km². The island is home to some of the most remote and untouched natural landscapes in the world, including the Baliem Valley and the Raja Ampat Islands.
URL: https://www.tripkrt.com/travel-guides/indonesia/10-largest-islands-in-indonesia-20658/

[Geography of Indonesia - Wikipedia]
Geography of Indonesia ... Indonesia is an archipelagic country located in Southeast Asia, lying between the Indian Ocean and the Pacific Ocean. It is located in a strategic location astride or along major sea lanes connecting East Asia, South Asia and Oceania. Indonesia is the largest archipelago in the world. [2]
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Geography_of_Indonesia

[7 “Biggest” Things in the World are in Indonesia]
Of the six largest islands in the world, it turns out that three of them are in Indonesia, which are Papua, Kalimantan and Sumatra. Papua is the second largest island in the world.
URL: https://authentic-indonesia.com/blog/7-biggest-things-in-the-world-are-in-indonesia/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [10 Largest Islands in Indonesia (+Map) - Touropia] ---
Indonesia is the largest cluster of islands in the world, made up of an incredible collection of no fewer than 14,000 jungle-clad islands floating off the coast of Asia. Five islands are considered major islands due to their massive size, and the rest are split up between 30 smaller Indonesian archipelagos. From Flores in the Lesser Sunda Islands to New Guinea – the only Indonesian territory in Oceania – and everything in between, here are the largest islands in Indonesia when measured by total surface area. Map of Indonesia’s Largest Islands 10. Flores (14,154 km2) Located to the east of Komodo and the west of Lembata, the island of Flores (which means ‘Flowers’ in Portuguese) is part of the Lesser Sunda Islands – a cluster of islands in eastern Indonesia. At last headcount back in 2010, the island had a population of 1.8 million people. Not only is Flores Island one of the country’s largest, but it is also the 10th most populated. But there is a reason for the crowds – and many more reasons to visit Flores. The island is most known for its massive Kelimutu volcano with its three multicolored crater lakes that make for some adventurous hiking. 9. Sumbawa (14,386 km2) The island of Sumbawa is located in the heart of the Lesser Sunda Islands archipelago in Indonesia. With a history dating back many hundreds of years, the island, with its volcanoes, rice paddies, and dry savannah, is celebrated for its local resources of honey, sandalwood, and sappanwood. Sumbawa is home to two fascinating cultures – split between the people who speak Sumbawarese in the east and those who speak Bimanese to the west. Yet despite the island’s convenient location for getting between Lombok, Bali, and Flores, Sumbawa is largely (and blissfully) off the tourist radar. 8. Seram (17,454 km2) Seram is both the largest and most prominent island of Indonesia’s Maluku province. A major natural hotspot and tropical oasis with massive mountains and limestone karsts dotting its surface area, it boasts a plethora of biodiversity within its rainforests and coastlines. The island of Seram is home to the deepest cave in the country and one of the largest underground rivers on Earth, the river Sapalewa. Over 100 different bird species call the island home, 14 of which are endemic. There are various endemic mammals and Australasian marsupials living within the jungles, as well as saltwater crocodiles lurking beneath the surface of the water. 7. Halmahera (18,040 km2) The volcanic island of Halmahera, previously known as Jilolo, is the largest of the Maluku islands in Indonesia. It is the largest island in Indonesia outside of the country’s five major islands. Located on a chain of active volcanoes that encompasses the Raja Ampat Islands, the K-shaped island of Halmahera is characterized by beautiful sandy beaches, seemingly untouched forests, and mountain vistas. 6. Timor (28,418 km2) While not solely part of Indonesia (it is shared with the Democratic Republic of Timor-Leste), the coffee-growing region of Timor can be found in the south of Maritime Southeast Asia. It is found above the Timor Sea, which divides it from the Australian mainland. The name Timor means ‘east’ in Malay; it is so-called because of its location as one of the easternmost islands of Indonesia’s Lesser Sunda archipelago. Unlike the rest of the island group, Timor is not volcanic and is much older. 5. Java (138,794 km2) Due to its sheer size as the world’s 13th largest island, it should come as no surprise that Java falls within the top five of Indonesia’s largest islands. Surrounded by the Indian Ocean on one side and the Java Sea on the other, the island provides a home for over 140 million people – more than half of all of Indonesia’s population put together! The island of Java is a mix of different cultures, languages, and religions. The seat of countless Hindu-Buddhist empires and Islamic sultanates, Java has constantly been the site of historical importance and bloody battles. 4. Sulawesi (180,681 km2) Sulawesi, also referred to as Celebes, is part of Indonesia’s four Greater Sunda Islands. As the 11th-largest island on Earth, it spreads across no less than four peninsulas that are themselves separated by three gulfs. For this reason, the uniquely-shaped island is better connected by sea than by road. The Strait of Makassar separates the island from Borneo on its western end, and a series of islands in the south that include the Selayar Islands all contribute to make up the island’s six provinces. Despite being overshadowed by Bali and Lombok, Sulawesi offers similar temptations – from glorious beaches to vibrant local markets. 3. Sumatra (473,481 km2) Sumatra, also known as Sumatera, is the sixth-largest island in the world. Forming part of the Greater Sunda Islands in western Indonesia, it can be found to the west of Java and to the south of the Malay Peninsula. Sumatra is an island revered for its incredible biodiversity and gigantic volcanic crater lake – the largest in the world. Within its rainforests and volcanic terrain, there is some astonishing wildlife, such as the Sumatran orangutan, the Sumatran rhino, and the Sumatran tiger – all of which have been listed as critically endangered species. 2. Borneo (748,168 km2) Indonesia shares the claim to Borneo, the third-largest island, with two other countries – Brunei and Malaysia. However, the largest section of the island is Indonesian territory. Located in the very heart of Maritime Southeast Asia and dating back over 100 million years, Borneo’s rainforest is one of the oldest on the planet. It provides a home for some elusive kinds of wildlife, such as the Bornean orangutan – a great ape species that cannot be found anywhere else in the world. 1. New Guinea (785,753 km2) The massive island of New Guinea sprawls for more than 1,500 miles surrounded by the Pacific Ocean, the Coral Sea, and the Arafura Sea in the eastern Malay Archipelago. It is the second-largest island in the world, trumped in size only by Greenland. Indonesia shares possession of the island with independent Papua New Guinea, but its own section is known as Western New Guinea, made up of the provinces of Papua and West Papua. Interestingly, the island is the only Indonesian island that falls within Oceania.


--- [Biggest Islands In Indonesia - WorldAtlas] ---
Biggest Islands In Indonesia Indonesia is the biggest archipelagic (consisting of a chain of islands) country in the world. The country is located in Southeast Asia and flanked on either side by the Indian Ocean and the Pacific Ocean. It is comprised of 14,752 islands and islets, of which only 6,000 islands are inhabited. It has a total land area of about 741,050 sq miles. Many of the islands are volcanic in origin. Listed below are the largest islands that are controlled either in whole or in part by the nation of Indonesia. The Largest Islands of Indonesia New Guinea New Guinea is the largest islands on this list at 303,381 square miles. Indonesia controlls the western part of the island while Papua New Guinea controls the eastern part. New Guinea is home to Indonesia's highest mountain, the Puncak Jaya. Borneo Second is Borneo with a land of area of 288,869 square miles. Its governance and territory is shared with Brunei and Malaysia. Indonesia owns 73% of the island while Malaysia owns 26%, and Brunei owns 1% of the island. The Indonesian portion of the island is often referred to as Kalimantan. Sumatra Third is Sumatra with 184,954 square miles of land area. Sumatra is the largest island controlled wholly by Indonesia. The island is known for its monster flower the Rafflesia arnoldii, and the 2004 Indian Ocean Tsunami that devastated and caused the death of thousands of islanders. Sulawesi Formerly known as Celebes, the island of Sulawesi covers 69,761 square miles making it the fourth largest Indonesian island. It is one of the Greater Sunda Islands and is composed of four peninsulas. The Strait of Makassar separates Sulawesi from Borneo. Java Java tops the list as the most populous among Indonesia's many islands. Java has a land area of 53,589 square miles, packed with a population of 141 million as of 2015. Jakarta, the capital and largest city, is located on Java island. Other Major Islands of Indonesia Next in order are Timor (shared with East Timor) at 10,972 square miles, Halmahera at 6,865 square miles, Seram at 6,621 square miles, Sumbawa at 5,554 square miles, and Flores at 5,464 square miles. Socioeconomic Significance of Modern Indonesia In the 19th Century, Indonesia was a colony of the Netherlands and was known as “the Netherlands' Indies.” Only in 1945 did Indonesia declare independence after seemingly 350 years of foreign domination of oppression and violence. The many islands of Indonesia contributed to the socioeconomic advances in the country with raw materials exports that eventually resulted in high aspirations of state formation, economic integration, and globalization. Today, Indonesia is a world leader in the production of rice, coffee, tea, rubber, and spices. The Biggest Islands Of Indonesia | Rank | Island | Area | |---|---|---| | 1 | New Guinea (shared with Papua New Guinea) | 303,381 square miles | | 2 | Borneo (shared with Brunei and Malaysia) | 288,869 square miles | | 3 | Sumatra | 184,954 square miles | | 4 | Sulawesi | 69,761 square miles | | 5 | Java | 53,589 square miles | | 6 | Timor (shared with East Timor) | 10,972 square miles | | 7 | Halmahera | 6,865 square miles | | 8 | Seram | 6,621 square miles | | 9 | Sumbawa | 5,554 square miles | | 10 | Flores | 5,464 square miles |


--- [10 Largest Islands In Indonesia - Tripkrt Holidays] ---
Indonesia, the world’s largest archipelago, consists of 17,508 islands. With over 13,000 islands that are yet to be named, Indonesia is home to some of the most stunning natural landscapes and diverse cultures in the world. Among these islands, some are incredibly massive, both in size and population. In this article, we will explore the ten largest islands in Indonesia and discover their unique characteristics. Java Island Java Island is the most populous island in Indonesia and the world’s most populous island. It has a total area of 138,794 km², and it is the fifth-largest island in Indonesia. The island is home to the capital city of Indonesia, Jakarta, and some of the largest and most influential cities in the country, such as Surabaya, Bandung, and Semarang. Java is also known for its stunning volcanoes, rice paddies, and historical landmarks such as Borobudur and Prambanan temples. Sumatra Island Sumatra Island is the sixth-largest island in the world and the second-largest island in Indonesia, with a total area of 473,481 km². The island is home to a diverse range of ecosystems, from lush rainforests to active volcanoes. Sumatra is also home to the world-famous Lake Toba, the largest volcanic lake in the world, and the Bukit Lawang orangutan sanctuary, where visitors can see orangutans up close in their natural habitat. Borneo Island Borneo Island is the third-largest island in the world and the third-largest island in Indonesia, with a total area of 748,168 km². The island is divided between three countries: Indonesia, Malaysia, and Brunei. Borneo is famous for its dense tropical rainforests, which are home to a diverse range of wildlife, including orangutans, proboscis monkeys, and pygmy elephants. The island is also known for its stunning beaches, coral reefs, and traditional longhouses. Papua Island Papua Island is the second-largest island in Indonesia and the world’s second-largest island, with a total area of 786,000 km². The island is home to some of the most remote and untouched natural landscapes in the world, including the Baliem Valley and the Raja Ampat Islands. Papua is also home to a diverse range of indigenous cultures, including the Asmat people, who are known for their intricate woodcarvings and vibrant traditional dances. Sulawesi Island Sulawesi Island is the eleventh-largest island in the world and the fourth-largest island in Indonesia, with a total area of 174,600 km². The island is shaped like a starfish, with four large peninsulas extending from a central core. Sulawesi is home to a diverse range of ecosystems, from dense rainforests to coral reefs. The island is also known for its unique cultures, including the Toraja people, who are famous for their elaborate funeral ceremonies. Bali Island Bali Island is one of the most popular tourist destinations in Indonesia, known for its stunning beaches, vibrant nightlife, and rich cultural heritage. The island has a total area of 5,780 km², making it the 11th largest island in Indonesia. Bali is home to some of the most beautiful temples in the world, such as Tanah Lot, Uluwatu, and Besakih. The island is also known for its traditional Balinese dances, which are performed at temples and cultural events throughout the island. Bali’s unique blend of natural beauty, cultural heritage, and modern amenities has made it a top destination for tourists from around the world. Timor Island Timor Island is located in the eastern part of Indonesia and is the sixth-largest island in the country, with a total area of 30,777 km². The island is divided between two countries: Indonesia and Timor-Leste. Timor Island is known for its stunning beaches, coral reefs, and natural hot springs. The island is also home to a diverse range of cultures and languages, including the Tetum language, which is spoken in Timor-Leste. Halmahera Island Halmahera Island is located in the northern part of Indonesia and is the largest island in the North Maluku province, with a total area of 17,780 km². The island is known for its stunning natural landscapes, including active volcanoes, hot springs, and crystal-clear lakes. Halmahera is also home to a diverse range of wildlife, including the rare Wallace’s standardwing bird of paradise. Seram Island Seram Island is located in the eastern part of Indonesia and is the largest island in the Maluku province, with a total area of 17,454 km². The island is known for its stunning natural landscapes, including dense rainforests, crystal-clear lakes, and pristine beaches. Seram is also home to a diverse range of wildlife, including the elusive Moluccan cockatoo. Conclusion Indonesia is home to some of the largest and most diverse islands in the world. From the bustling cities of Java to the remote rainforests of Papua, each island offers a unique blend of natural beauty, cultural heritage, and modern amenities. Whether you are looking for a relaxing beach vacation, an adventure in the jungle, or a glimpse into traditional cultures, Indonesia’s islands have something to offer. FAQs - What is the largest island in Indonesia? - The largest island in Indonesia is Papua Island, with a total area of 786,000 km². - What is the most populous island in Indonesia? - The most populous island in Indonesia is Java Island, with a population of over 140 million people. - What is the most popular tourist destination in Indonesia? - Bali Island is one of the most popular tourist destinations in Indonesia, known for its stunning beaches, vibrant nightlife, and rich cultural heritage. - Are all of Indonesia’s islands inhabited? - No, not all of Indonesia’s islands are inhabited. In fact, over 13,000 islands are still unnamed and unexplored. - What is the best time to visit Indonesia’s islands? - The best time to visit Indonesia’s islands is during the dry season, which runs from May to September.


--- [Geography of Indonesia - Wikipedia] ---
Indonesia is an archipelagic country located in Southeast Asia, lying between the Indian Ocean and the Pacific Ocean. It is located in a strategic location astride or along major sea lanes connecting East Asia, South Asia and Oceania. Indonesia is the largest archipelago in the world. Indonesia's various regional cultures have been shaped—although not specifically determined—by centuries of complex interactions with its physical environment.


--- [7 “Biggest” Things in the World are in Indonesia] ---
Indonesia is a country that is rich in culture and full of exciting and interesting things. This has also been clearly recognized by the world community. The facts of Indonesia are indeed endless. There are so many interesting things in Indonesia that you might not find in any country. This time Authentic-Indonesia will examine the seven “biggest” things in the world that actually exist in Indonesia. Here they are. 1. Indonesia has 3 of the 10 largest islands in the world Of the six largest islands in the world, it turns out that three of them are in Indonesia, which are Papua, Kalimantan and Sumatra. Papua is the second largest island in the world. The island stretches 2,400 kilometers from northwest to east southeast and has a width of 650 kilometers from north to south. As for the area of the island is around 821,500 kilometers. Papua Island is also often known as New Guinea which is divided into two parts. The western part is Papua and West Papua which is the territory of Indonesia. Meanwhile, the eastern part is the territory of Papua New Guinea. Then, there is Kalimantan (Borneo) which is lined up as the third largest island in the world after Greenland and New Guinea (Papua), with an island area of 755,000 square kilometers. Most of this island is part of the territory of Indonesia, although there are Sarawak and Sabah in it that are part of Malaysia and a small part of it is part of Brunei Darussalam. Furthermore, Sumatra, which is the sixth largest island in the world after Madagascar and Baffin. It covers 480,793 square kilometers. The island of Sumatra has also been named as one of the islands that is very vulnerable to earthquakes and tsunamis. That’s because it is located in the subduction zone of the Indo-Australian and Eurasian tectonic plates. 2. Indonesia has the largest mangrove forests in the world It is known that the mangrove forest area owned by Indonesia reaches 2.5-4.5 million hectares, which means that 25 percent of the world’s total mangrove forests are in Indonesia. On this basis, Indonesia’s mangrove forests are also placed as the largest mangrove forest in Southeast Asia, or about 60 percent of the mangrove forest area in Southeast Asia. Even so, there are some homeworks for Indonesia regarding these mangrove forests. This is because the Ministry of Forestry of the Republic of Indonesia recorded that around 1.5 million hectares or about 40 percent of Indonesia’s mangrove forests are in poor condition. Along with this good news, the world is forced to see that the condition of Indonesia’s mangrove forests is also the worst in Southeast Asia. 3. Indonesia has the largest volcanic lake in the World The Toba volcanic lake due to the eruption of Mount Toba is indeed well known as the largest volcanic lake in the world. It is known throughout history, Mount Toba erupted three times in around 800,000 years ago, 500,000 years ago, and 73,000 years ago. The power of the eruption of Mount Toba is known to be very strong, amounting to 26,000 megatons of TNT. That power exceeds the explosive power of the Hiroshima and Nagasaki nuclear bombs which are only 0.015 megatons of TNT and still exceeds the eruption of Mount Krakatau which was recorded at 150 megatons of TNT. No wonder the eruption of Mount Toba has also been named an eruption that has caused changes in world civilization. On the basis of this natural phenomenon, the Toba Caldera has now been recognized by the UNESCO Global Geopark. 4. Indonesia has the largest and most expensive funeral procession in the world The Rambu Solo tradition in Toraja is predicted to be the most expensive funeral ceremony in the world. The funeral ceremony which lasts for seven days is estimated to cost hundreds of millions to billions of rupiah per one traditional event. This funeral ceremony is symbolized as the perfection of a person’s death in order to leave the world in peace and happiness. For one ceremony, the abandoned family must provide sacrificial animals in the form of buffalo and pigs. The buffalo used is the Tedong Bonga buffalo or known as the white buffalo or striped buffalo or mud buffalo. It is said that the price of this buffalo is up to Rp. 600 million per head, while for animal sacrifices of pigs it is known that it is worth Rp. 3-5 million per head. And the number of sacrificial animals that must be provided is between 8-20. Try to count how much money you have to spend for the sacrifice! Not only that, the family who was left behind was also obliged to provide “supplies” for the corpse, in the form of traditional cloth and ropes made of gold and silver, as well as clothes, jewelry and a sum of money. 5. Indonesia has the largest metropolitan city in the world Jakarta is known as one of the largest urban areas in Indonesia which contributes to 11 percent of the country’s population internationally. For this, Jakarta is often juxtaposed with Shanghai, Delhi and Tokyo, which are the largest metropolitan cities in the world. It is known that around 28 million people live in Jakarta. This also applies to those who live in buffer cities such as Bogor, Depok, Tangerang and Bekasi. Based on these facts, Jakarta has been named as one of the largest metropolitan cities in the world after Tokyo and is the largest in Southeast Asia. Data from the United Nations (UN) even predicted that in 2028 Jakarta could shift Tokyo’s position because of its population, which will reach 38 million people. 6. A country with the most languages in the world Actually, Indonesia does not occupy the top position as a country with the largest number of languages in the world. In terms of numbers, the Center for Language Development of Indonesia Ministry of Education and Culture recorded that Indonesia has 733 languages from 2,425 observation areas. Unfortunately, 98 of these local languages are known to be threatened with extinction due to the low level of use of these local languages. Even so, Indonesia still occupies the second top position as a country with the most languages in the world. The first position is occupied by Papua New Guinea which has 839 languages. Because of so many languages spoken make each language is known to be spoken by less than a thousand people. 7. Indonesia is home of the largest lizard in the world A study and observations published in the Proceedings of the Royal Society B stated that the Komodo dragon is not a typical reptile that will left its homeland. In fact, this is done throughout their life. That is why Komodo dragons can only be found in Indonesia. One of the largest houses is in East Nusa Tenggara. The research team labeled them as a group of real homebody animals. This is reasonable because an experiment was carried out when several Komodo dragons were removed from their natural habitat. As a result, it turned out that the Komodo dragons had difficulty mating and had difficulty finding prey. This of course will harm and threaten the survival of the Komodo dragon. However, staying in one place also has risks, for example the inbreeding and the scarcity of resources due to natural changes that occur in their place.
