=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Lois Griffiths - Infinite Women]
Immediately following the award of her doctorate, Griffiths was appointed as an Instructor in Mathematics at Northwestern University in Evanston, Illinois, where she spent the whole of her teaching career.
URL: https://www.infinite-women.com/women/lois-griffiths/

[Lois Griffiths - Biography - MacTutor History of Mathematics ...]
Immediately following the award of her doctorate, Griffiths was appointed as an Instructor in Mathematics at Northwestern University in Evanston, Illinois, where she spent the whole of her teaching career.
URL: https://mathshistory.st-andrews.ac.uk/Biographies//Griffiths_Lois/

[Lois Griffiths (1899 - 1981) - Biography - MacTutor History of Mathematics]
Immediately following the award of her doctorate, Griffiths was appointed as an Instructor in Mathematics at Northwestern University in Evanston, Illinois ...
URL: https://mathshistory.st-andrews.ac.uk/Biographies/Griffiths_Lois/

[Official Courses offered at Pwani University (PU) 2024/2025]
Sep 28, 2024 · Pwani University is located on a pretty sweet piece of land, spanning around 239 hectares. That means it has plenty of room to expand, which is great news for the university’s future and the students who enrol there. Read: KMTC courses, Fees, and Qualifications | 2024 How many schools are in Pwani University?
URL: https://worldscholarshipforum.com/pwani-university-courses/

[Lois Wilfred Griffiths]
Immediately following the award of her doctorate, Griffiths was appointed as an Instructor in Mathematics at Northwestern University in Evanston, Illinois, where she spent the whole of her teaching career.
URL: https://almerja.com/more.php?idm=85165


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Lois Griffiths - Infinite Women] ---
This biography, written by J J O’Connor and E F Robertson, has been republished with permission from the School of Mathematics and Statistics at the University of St Andrews, Scotland. Born: 27 June 1899, United States Died: 9 November 1981 Country most active: United States Also known as: NA Lois Griffiths’ parents were Frederick William Griffiths and Lena Jones. Lena had studied at Kansas State Normal School and had been a school teacher. Frederick Griffiths was born in Wales and had emigrated to the United States in 1880. He was awarded a B.A. by Oberlin College in 1893 and a B.D. by Oberlin Theological Seminary in 1896. He was ordained and married Lena Jones in 1896. He was a minister in Michigan before moving to Ohio in 1898 where Lois and her brother Harold (born 1898) were born. Soon after the birth of Lois, the family moved to Jennings, Oklahoma Territory, where they lived during 1899-1900. After working for the Minneapolis Journal, Frederick Griffiths and his family moved to Seattle in 1904. Lois was educated at elementary and secondary schools in Washington State before entering the University of Washington. Her brother, Harold F Griffiths, also studied at the University of Washington where he was in the Naval Unit and was a member of the University of Washington “Food Production Squad”. During her undergraduate years Lois was assistant to Comptroller Condon of the University of Washington. She graduated with bachelor’s degree in 1921 and remained at the University to study for her Master’s degree. She received her Master’s degree in 1923 after writing Contact Curves of the Rational Cubic which was published in type-written form by the University of Washington. She published a paper based on this work entitled Contact curves of the rational plane cubic in the Bulletin of the American Mathematical Society in 1925. She had been elected to membership of the American Mathematical Society at the thirtieth summer meeting of the Society held in Vassar College, New York, in September 1923. Entering the University of Chicago in October 1925, Griffiths undertook research for a doctorate in mathematics working with her thesis supervisor Leonard Dickson. She received the degree in 1927 after submitting her dissertation Certain quaternary quadratic forms and diophantine equations by generalized quaternion algebras. Immediately following the award of her doctorate, Griffiths was appointed as an Instructor in Mathematics at Northwestern University in Evanston, Illinois, where she spent the whole of her teaching career. She was promoted to an assistant professorship of mathematics in 1930 then, after spending research leave in Cambridge, England, in 1936-37, she was promoted to associate professor at Northwestern University in 1938. She published papers such as Generalized Quaternion Algebras and the Theory of Numbers (1928) and Representation of Integers in the Form x2+2y2+3z2+6w2x^{2} + 2y^{2} + 3z^{2} + 6w^{2}x2+2y2+3z2+6w2 (1929), both in the American Journal of Mathematics, and A generalization of the Fermat theorem on polygonal numbers (1930) in the Annals of Mathematics. She continued to publish papers on representing numbers in certain forms with work such as Representation by Extended Polygonal Numbers and by Generalized Polygonal Numbers (1933) and Representation as Sums of Multiples of Generalized Polygonal Numbers (1936). In 1945 Griffiths produced a typewritten set of notes Determinants and systems of linear equations. She expanded the notes into a book which was published by John Wiley and Sons as Introduction to the theory of equations in 1945. In the Preface she states clearly that her aim is to guide students:- … slowly through the proofs of the important general theorems in the elementary theory of algebraic equations. Thomas Arnold Brown in a review indicates the style of the book:- A very slight background of mathematical knowledge is demanded from the reader. Nevertheless the volume deliberately represents an innovation in literary mathematical presentation. Even moderately elaborate theorems are resolved into simple elements; illustrative examples and particular cases are introduced to pave the way for the formal proofs which follow; and there is much restatement. While such methods are admirable for the classroom and will no doubt prove helpful to the lone worker of mediocre mathematical attainments, there remains a danger that the gifted student may find the going tedious and feel the waft of any stimulus to inspire him to further study. Two later typewritten sets of notes by Griffiths Outline of the theory of groups (1948) and Matrices and linear dependence (1949) were never published. Before writing her textbook, Griffiths had published a number of excellent reviews of important algebra texts. She reviewed Introduction to the Theory of Groups of Finite Order by Robert D Carmichael in 1939, An Introduction to Abstract Algebra by Cyrus Colton MacDuffee in 1941, and A Survey of Modern Algebra by Garrett Birkhoff and Saunders Mac Lane in 1942. In addition she continued her work on polygonal numbers, publishing papers such as: Universal functions of extended polygonal numbers (1941); Universal functions of polygonal numbers (1942); A note on representation by polygonal numbers (1942); Universal functions of polygonal numbers. II (1944); Universal functions of polygonal numbers. III (1945); and A note on linear homogeneous Diophantine equations (1946). Griffiths attended meetings of both the American Mathematical Society and the Mathematical Association of America. For example, she attended the Fifteenth Summer Meeting of the Mathematical Association in 1931 and she delivered the lecture Universal functions of polygonal numbers at the meeting of the Mathematical Association of America held in Chicago on 1 September 1941. She attended the American Mathematical Society meeting in Chicago in April 1947 and delivered the lecture Linear homogeneous diophantine equations on the afternoon of Friday 26 April. She also attended the November meeting of the American Mathematical Society in Evanston in 1954. She was honoured with life membership of the Northwestern University Alumni Association in 1954. Lena Griffiths, Lois Griffiths’ mother, came to live with her in Evanston in around 1945 and she continued to live with her daughter until her death in 1956. Lois Griffiths retired from her position at Northwestern University in 1964 and at that time she was made professor emeritus.


--- [Lois Griffiths - Biography - MacTutor History of Mathematics ...] ---
Lois Wilfred Griffiths Quick Info Chagrin Falls, Ohio, USA Skokie, Illinois, USA Biography Lois Griffiths' parents were Frederick William Griffiths and Lena Jones. Lena had studied at Kansas State Normal School and had been a school teacher. Frederick Griffiths was born in Wales and had emigrated to the United States in 1880. He was awarded a B.A. by Oberlin College in 1893 and a B.D. by Oberlin Theological Seminary in 1896. He was ordained and married Lena Jones in 1896. He was a minister in Michigan before moving to Ohio in 1898 where Lois and her brother Harold (born 1898) were born. Soon after the birth of Lois, the family moved to Jennings, Oklahoma Territory, where they lived during 1899-1900. After working for the Minneapolis Journal, Frederick Griffiths and his family moved to Seattle in 1904.Lois was educated at elementary and secondary schools in Washington State before entering the University of Washington. Her brother, Harold F Griffiths, also studied at the University of Washington where he was in the Naval Unit and was a member of the University of Washington "Food Production Squad". During her undergraduate years Lois was assistant to Comptroller Condon of the University of Washington. She graduated with bachelor's degree in 1921 and remained at the University to study for her Master's degree. She received her Master's degree in 1923 after writing Contact Curves of the Rational Cubic which was published in type-written form by the University of Washington. She published a paper based on this work entitled Contact curves of the rational plane cubic in the Bulletin of the American Mathematical Society in 1925. She had been elected to membership of the American Mathematical Society at the thirtieth summer meeting of the Society held in Vassar College, New York, in September 1923. Entering the University of Chicago in October 1925, Griffiths undertook research for a doctorate in mathematics working with her thesis supervisor Leonard Dickson. She received the degree in 1927 after submitting her dissertation Certain quaternary quadratic forms and diophantine equations by generalized quaternion algebras. Immediately following the award of her doctorate, Griffiths was appointed as an Instructor in Mathematics at Northwestern University in Evanston, Illinois, where she spent the whole of her teaching career. She was promoted to an assistant professorship of mathematics in 1930 then, after spending research leave in Cambridge, England, in 1936-37, she was promoted to associate professor at Northwestern University in 1938. She published papers such as Generalized Quaternion Algebras and the Theory of Numbers (1928) and Representation of Integers in the Form (1929), both in the American Journal of Mathematics, and A generalization of the Fermat theorem on polygonal numbers (1930) in the Annals of Mathematics. She continued to publish papers on representing numbers in certain forms with work such as Representation by Extended Polygonal Numbers and by Generalized Polygonal Numbers (1933) and Representation as Sums of Multiples of Generalized Polygonal Numbers (1936). In 1945 Griffiths produced a typewritten set of notes Determinants and systems of linear equations. She expanded the notes into a book which was published by John Wiley and Sons as Introduction to the theory of equations in 1945. In the Preface she states clearly that her aim is to guide students:- ... slowly through the proofs of the important general theorems in the elementary theory of algebraic equations.Thomas Arnold Brown in a review indicates the style of the book [2]:- A very slight background of mathematical knowledge is demanded from the reader. Nevertheless the volume deliberately represents an innovation in literary mathematical presentation. Even moderately elaborate theorems are resolved into simple elements; illustrative examples and particular cases are introduced to pave the way for the formal proofs which follow; and there is much restatement. While such methods are admirable for the classroom and will no doubt prove helpful to the lone worker of mediocre mathematical attainments, there remains a danger that the gifted student may find the going tedious and feel the waft of any stimulus to inspire him to further study.Two later typewritten sets of notes by Griffiths Outline of the theory of groups (1948) and Matrices and linear dependence (1949) were never published. Before writing her textbook, Griffiths had published a number of excellent reviews of important algebra texts. She reviewed Introduction to the Theory of Groups of Finite Order by Robert D Carmichael in 1939 [5], An Introduction to Abstract Algebra by Cyrus Colton MacDuffee in 1941 [4], and A Survey of Modern Algebra by Garrett Birkhoff and Saunders Mac Lane in 1942 [3]. In addition she continued her work on polygonal numbers, publishing papers such as: Universal functions of extended polygonal numbers (1941); Universal functions of polygonal numbers (1942); A note on representation by polygonal numbers (1942); Universal functions of polygonal numbers. II (1944); Universal functions of polygonal numbers. III (1945); and A note on linear homogeneous Diophantine equations (1946). Griffiths attended meetings of both the American Mathematical Society and the Mathematical Association of America. For example, she attended the Fifteenth Summer Meeting of the Mathematical Association in 1931 and she delivered the lecture Universal functions of polygonal numbers at the meeting of the Mathematical Association of America held in Chicago on 1 September 1941. She attended the American Mathematical Society meeting in Chicago in April 1947 and delivered the lecture Linear homogeneous diophantine equations on the afternoon of Friday 26 April. She also attended the November meeting of the American Mathematical Society in Evanston in 1954. As to her hobbies, Griffiths loved walking, gardening and cooking. She [1]:- ... liked classical music and kept notes on what she listened to on the radio.She was honoured with life membership of the Northwestern University Alumni Association in 1954. Lena Griffiths, Lois Griffiths' mother, came to live with her in Evanston in around 1945 and she continued to live with her daughter until her death in 1956. Lois Griffiths retired from her position at Northwestern University in 1964 and at that time she was made professor emeritus. References (show) - J Green and J LaDuke, Pioneering Women in American Mathematics : The Pre-1940 PhD's (American Mathematical Society, Providence, RI, 2009). - T A Brown, Review: Introduction to the Theory of Equations by Lois Wilfred Griffiths, The Mathematical Gazette 33 (303) (1949), 57-58. - L W Griffiths, Book Review: A Survey of Modern Algebra by Garrett Birkhoff; Saunders MacLane. Natl. Math. Mag. 16 (5) (1942), 268-269. - L W Griffiths, Book Review: An Introduction to Abstract Algebra by Cyrus Colton MacDuffee, Natl. Math. Mag. 15 (4) (1941), 211-212. - L W Griffiths, Book Review: Introduction to the Theory of Groups of Finite Order by Robert D Carmichael, Natl. Math. Mag. 13 (7) (1939), 353-354. - L W Griffiths, On Hypergroups, Multigroups, and Product Systems. Amer. J. Math. 60 (2) (1938), 345-354. - The Eatonville Dispatch, A Weekly Paper For Tacoma Eastern People (6 September 1918). - The Eatonville Dispatch, A Weekly Paper For Tacoma Eastern People (6 December 1918). Additional Resources (show) Other websites about Lois Griffiths: Written by J J O'Connor and E F Robertson Last Update July 2009 Last Update July 2009


--- [Lois Griffiths (1899 - 1981) - Biography - MacTutor History of Mathematics] ---
Lois Wilfred Griffiths Quick Info Chagrin Falls, Ohio, USA Skokie, Illinois, USA Biography Lois Griffiths' parents were Frederick William Griffiths and Lena Jones. Lena had studied at Kansas State Normal School and had been a school teacher. Frederick Griffiths was born in Wales and had emigrated to the United States in 1880. He was awarded a B.A. by Oberlin College in 1893 and a B.D. by Oberlin Theological Seminary in 1896. He was ordained and married Lena Jones in 1896. He was a minister in Michigan before moving to Ohio in 1898 where Lois and her brother Harold (born 1898) were born. Soon after the birth of Lois, the family moved to Jennings, Oklahoma Territory, where they lived during 1899-1900. After working for the Minneapolis Journal, Frederick Griffiths and his family moved to Seattle in 1904.Lois was educated at elementary and secondary schools in Washington State before entering the University of Washington. Her brother, Harold F Griffiths, also studied at the University of Washington where he was in the Naval Unit and was a member of the University of Washington "Food Production Squad". During her undergraduate years Lois was assistant to Comptroller Condon of the University of Washington. She graduated with bachelor's degree in 1921 and remained at the University to study for her Master's degree. She received her Master's degree in 1923 after writing Contact Curves of the Rational Cubic which was published in type-written form by the University of Washington. She published a paper based on this work entitled Contact curves of the rational plane cubic in the Bulletin of the American Mathematical Society in 1925. She had been elected to membership of the American Mathematical Society at the thirtieth summer meeting of the Society held in Vassar College, New York, in September 1923. Entering the University of Chicago in October 1925, Griffiths undertook research for a doctorate in mathematics working with her thesis supervisor Leonard Dickson. She received the degree in 1927 after submitting her dissertation Certain quaternary quadratic forms and diophantine equations by generalized quaternion algebras. Immediately following the award of her doctorate, Griffiths was appointed as an Instructor in Mathematics at Northwestern University in Evanston, Illinois, where she spent the whole of her teaching career. She was promoted to an assistant professorship of mathematics in 1930 then, after spending research leave in Cambridge, England, in 1936-37, she was promoted to associate professor at Northwestern University in 1938. She published papers such as Generalized Quaternion Algebras and the Theory of Numbers (1928) and Representation of Integers in the Form (1929), both in the American Journal of Mathematics, and A generalization of the Fermat theorem on polygonal numbers (1930) in the Annals of Mathematics. She continued to publish papers on representing numbers in certain forms with work such as Representation by Extended Polygonal Numbers and by Generalized Polygonal Numbers (1933) and Representation as Sums of Multiples of Generalized Polygonal Numbers (1936). In 1945 Griffiths produced a typewritten set of notes Determinants and systems of linear equations. She expanded the notes into a book which was published by John Wiley and Sons as Introduction to the theory of equations in 1945. In the Preface she states clearly that her aim is to guide students:- ... slowly through the proofs of the important general theorems in the elementary theory of algebraic equations.Thomas Arnold Brown in a review indicates the style of the book [2]:- A very slight background of mathematical knowledge is demanded from the reader. Nevertheless the volume deliberately represents an innovation in literary mathematical presentation. Even moderately elaborate theorems are resolved into simple elements; illustrative examples and particular cases are introduced to pave the way for the formal proofs which follow; and there is much restatement. While such methods are admirable for the classroom and will no doubt prove helpful to the lone worker of mediocre mathematical attainments, there remains a danger that the gifted student may find the going tedious and feel the waft of any stimulus to inspire him to further study.Two later typewritten sets of notes by Griffiths Outline of the theory of groups (1948) and Matrices and linear dependence (1949) were never published. Before writing her textbook, Griffiths had published a number of excellent reviews of important algebra texts. She reviewed Introduction to the Theory of Groups of Finite Order by Robert D Carmichael in 1939 [5], An Introduction to Abstract Algebra by Cyrus Colton MacDuffee in 1941 [4], and A Survey of Modern Algebra by Garrett Birkhoff and Saunders Mac Lane in 1942 [3]. In addition she continued her work on polygonal numbers, publishing papers such as: Universal functions of extended polygonal numbers (1941); Universal functions of polygonal numbers (1942); A note on representation by polygonal numbers (1942); Universal functions of polygonal numbers. II (1944); Universal functions of polygonal numbers. III (1945); and A note on linear homogeneous Diophantine equations (1946). Griffiths attended meetings of both the American Mathematical Society and the Mathematical Association of America. For example, she attended the Fifteenth Summer Meeting of the Mathematical Association in 1931 and she delivered the lecture Universal functions of polygonal numbers at the meeting of the Mathematical Association of America held in Chicago on 1 September 1941. She attended the American Mathematical Society meeting in Chicago in April 1947 and delivered the lecture Linear homogeneous diophantine equations on the afternoon of Friday 26 April. She also attended the November meeting of the American Mathematical Society in Evanston in 1954. As to her hobbies, Griffiths loved walking, gardening and cooking. She [1]:- ... liked classical music and kept notes on what she listened to on the radio.She was honoured with life membership of the Northwestern University Alumni Association in 1954. Lena Griffiths, Lois Griffiths' mother, came to live with her in Evanston in around 1945 and she continued to live with her daughter until her death in 1956. Lois Griffiths retired from her position at Northwestern University in 1964 and at that time she was made professor emeritus. References (show) - J Green and J LaDuke, Pioneering Women in American Mathematics : The Pre-1940 PhD's (American Mathematical Society, Providence, RI, 2009). - T A Brown, Review: Introduction to the Theory of Equations by Lois Wilfred Griffiths, The Mathematical Gazette 33 (303) (1949), 57-58. - L W Griffiths, Book Review: A Survey of Modern Algebra by Garrett Birkhoff; Saunders MacLane. Natl. Math. Mag. 16 (5) (1942), 268-269. - L W Griffiths, Book Review: An Introduction to Abstract Algebra by Cyrus Colton MacDuffee, Natl. Math. Mag. 15 (4) (1941), 211-212. - L W Griffiths, Book Review: Introduction to the Theory of Groups of Finite Order by Robert D Carmichael, Natl. Math. Mag. 13 (7) (1939), 353-354. - L W Griffiths, On Hypergroups, Multigroups, and Product Systems. Amer. J. Math. 60 (2) (1938), 345-354. - The Eatonville Dispatch, A Weekly Paper For Tacoma Eastern People (6 September 1918). - The Eatonville Dispatch, A Weekly Paper For Tacoma Eastern People (6 December 1918). Additional Resources (show) Other websites about Lois Griffiths: Written by J J O'Connor and E F Robertson Last Update July 2009 Last Update July 2009


--- [Official Courses offered at Pwani University (PU) 2024/2025] ---
If you’re thinking of applying to PU, you’re probably wondering about the Pwani University courses and requirements, fee structure, and overall reputation. And that’s normal! You want to know as much as possible before making an important decision. That’s why we’re here to help. This article discusses Pwani University courses and qualifications, fees and everything else. Table of contents - Pwani University - How many schools are in Pwani University? - Pwani University courses - Does Pwani University offer nursing? - Does Pwani University offer medicine and surgery in Kenya? - Does Pwani University offer teaching courses? - Does Pwani University offer accounting courses? - How can I join Pwani University? - What is the entry grade for Pwani University? - What are the entry requirements for Pwani University? - Pwani University fees - How do I email Pwani University admissions? - FAQs - Conclusion - References - Recommendations Pwani University Pwani University is a public university in Kilifi County, about 60 kilometres from Mombasa. Before it became its university, it was a constituent college of Kenyatta University. This university has quite a bit of history. It all started in 2007 when President Mwai Kibaki signed an order to establish the university, which was previously known as Kilifi Institute of Agriculture. So, it has a solid foundation with lots of room to grow. And guess what? The very first students to enrol at Pwani University were around 200. They were registered in Education (Science) and Education (Arts). 💡 Pwani University is located on a pretty sweet piece of land, spanning around 239 hectares. That means it has plenty of room to expand, which is great news for the university’s future and the students who enrol there. Read: KMTC courses, Fees, and Qualifications | 2024 How many schools are in Pwani University? Pwani University is divided into 8 schools, each focused on a different study area. - The School of Education - The School of Humanities and Social Sciences - The School of Business and Economics - The School of Pure and Applied Sciences (SPAS) - The School of Agricultural Sciences and Agribusiness Studies - The School of Environmental and Earth Sciences - The School of Graduate Studies (SGS) - School of Health and Human Sciences Pwani University courses Here are the Pwani University courses offered in 2024: Bachelors Programmes - Bachelor of Science (Food, Nutrition & Dietetics) - Bachelor of Science (Environmental Health) - Bachelor of Science Nursing (Upgrading) - Bachelor of Science in Tourism Management - Bachelor of Science in Hospitality Management - Bachelor of Commerce (Options: Finance, Accounting, Business Mgt Information Science) - Bachelor of Education (Early Childhood Education) - Bachelor of Education (Special Needs Education) - Bachelor of Environmental Studies (Community Development) - Bachelor of Environmental Planning and Management - Bachelor of Environmental Science - Bachelor of Science in Agriculture & Extension - Bachelor of Science in Animal Science - Bachelor of Science in Horticulture & Marketing - Bachelor of Science in Agriculture - Bachelor of Science in Agribusiness Management - Bachelor of Science in Marine Biology and Fisheries - Bachelor of science in Microbiology - Bachelor of Science in Energy & Environmental Technology - Bachelor of science in Biology - Bachelor of Science in Industrial Chemistry - Bachelor of Science in Chemistry - Bachelor of Science in Biotechnology - Bachelor of Science in Biochemistry - Bachelor of Science in Telecommunication and Information Technology - Bachelor of Science in Computer Science - Bachelor of Science in Physics - Bachelor of Science in Mathematics - Bachelor of Science in Hospitality & Tourism Management - Bachelor of Commerce - Bachelor of Arts in Economics - Bachelor of Arts in Child Care & Protection - Bachelor of Arts (Anthropology) - Bachelor of Arts (Political Science) - Bachelor of Arts (History & Archaeology) - Bachelor of Arts (History) - Bachelor of Arts (German) - Bachelor of Arts (French) - Bachelor of Arts (Kiswahili) - Bachelor of Arts (Literature) - Bachelor of Arts (English & Linguistics) - Bachelor of Arts (Psychology) - Bachelor of (Sociology) - Bachelor of Arts (Philosophy) - Bachelor of Arts in Leadership Studies and Philosophy - Bachelor of Arts (Theology) - Bachelor of Arts (Islamic Religious Studies) - Bachelor of Arts (Christian Religious Studies) - Bachelor of Science in Nursing & Public Health (Direct Entry) - Bachelor of Education (Early Childhood Education) - Bachelor of Education( Special Needs Education) - Bachelor of Education (Science) - Bachelor of Education (Arts) - Bachelor of Arts in English and Linguistics - Bachelor of Arts in Economics - Bachelor of Arts in Child Care and Protection - Bachelor of Arts in Child Care and Protection - Bachelor of Science in Nursing and Public Health - Bachelor of Arts in Anthropology Also, see: Mount Kenya University Courses and Qualifications | UPDATED Masters Programmes - Master of Business Administration (MBA) - Master of Arts in Economics - M.Sc. Hospitality and Tourism Management - Master of Science in Bioinformatics - Master of Science in (Microbiology, Fisheries, Medical Entomology, Physics, Statistics, Biochemistry, Biotechnology, Chemistry, Botany, Immunology) - Master of Science in Livestock Sciences - Master of Science in Agribusiness - Master of Science in Agronomy - Master of Science in Geography - Master of Environmental Studies (Community Development) - Master of Environmental Sciences - Masters of Arts in (Kiswahili, Literature, French, English, Sociology, Religious Studies, Philosophy - Master of Science in Public Health - Masters of Education in History of Education - Masters of Education in Comparative Education - Masters of Education in Sociology of Education - Masters of Education in Philosophy of Education - Masters of Education in Economics of Education - Masters of Education in Educational Planning - Masters of Education in Educational Administration - Masters of Education: (Educational Psychology) - Masters of Education (Agricultural Education) - Masters of Education (Mathematics and Science Education) - Master of Education (Economics) - Master of Education (Curriculum Development) - Master of Education (Comparative and International Education) - Master of Education (Administration) - Master of Arts in Religious Studies - Master of Arts in English and Linguistics PhD Programmes - Doctor of Philosophy in Environmental Studies (Community Development) - Doctor of Philosophy in Environmental Sciences - Doctor of Philosophy in Agribusiness - Doctor of Philosophy in Animal Science - Doctor of Philosophy in Crop Science - Doctor of Philosophy in Chemistry - Doctor of Philosophy in Biotechnology - Doctor of Philosophy in Biochemistry - Doctor of Philosophy in Mathematics - Doctor of Philosophy in Physics - Doctor of Philosophy in Statistics - Doctor of Philosophy in Parasitology - Doctor of Philosophy in Immunology - Doctor of Philosophy in Botany - Doctor of Philosophy in Entomology - Doctor of Philosophy in Business Management - Doctor of Philosophy in Tourism Management - Doctor of Philosophy in Hospitality Management - Doctor of Philosophy in Human Nutrition - Doctor of Philosophy (Tourism) - Doctor of Philosophy in Fisheries - Doctor of Philosophy in Microbiology Diploma courses offered at Pwani University - Diploma in Hospitality Operations Management - Diploma in Business Management (Options: Marketing Mgt, Purchasing Mgt, Credit Mgt, Accounting, Money and Banking, Human Resource Mgt.) - Diploma in Primary Education - Diploma in Guidance and Counseling - Diploma in Information Technology - Diploma in Computer Science - Diploma in Applied Biology - Diploma in Travel and Tour Operations - Diploma in Food, Nutrition and Dietetics - Diploma in Early Childhood Education - Diploma in Agricultural Education & Extension - Diploma in Horticulture and Marketing - Diploma in Agriculture and Marketing - Diploma in Animal Health and Management - Diploma in Travel and Tourism Operations - Diploma in Community Development - Diploma in Animal Health and Production - Diploma in Agricultural Education & Extension Certificate courses offered at Pwani University - Certificate in Early Childhood Education - Certificate in General Agriculture - Certificate in Community Development You can also get the list of Pwani University courses pdf below: Does Pwani University offer nursing? Yes, Pwani University offers nursing! The university’s School of Health and Human Sciences offers a BSc in Nursing, which means that if you’re interested in pursuing a career in healthcare and have a passion for caring for others, this is a course to consider. Also, read: 15 Best Nursing Courses in Kenya and Qualifications PDF Does Pwani University offer medicine and surgery in Kenya? Yes, Pwani University offers medicine and surgery in Kenya! The Bachelor of Medicine and Surgery (MBCHB) course at Pwani University is an excellent choice for students passionate about pursuing a career in healthcare and wanting to study medicine in Kenya. This program is designed to give students a comprehensive understanding of the human body, how to diagnose and treat various ailments, and the skills to provide quality care to patients. Does Pwani University offer teaching courses? Yes, Pwani University does offer teaching courses! The School of Education at Pwani University provides a range of teaching courses, from early childhood education to secondary school teaching. So if you have a passion for education and want to make a difference in the lives of young people, this university is worth considering. Does Pwani University offer accounting courses? Yes, Pwani University does indeed offer accounting courses! The university offers a Diploma in Business Management with an Accounting option, which is a great way to get a solid foundation in accounting. This course covers financial management, financial reporting, and other key aspects of accounting, giving you the skills and knowledge you need to succeed in the business world. How can I join Pwani University? First, you’ll need to fill out the application form and send it to the Admissions Office at Pwani University. Include your certificates, transcripts, and four recent passport-sized photos. For undergraduate programs, you’ll need a minimum mean grade of C+ (plus) in your Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education (KCSE) or an equivalent qualification. And if you’re looking to pursue postgraduate studies at Pwani University, you’ll need to meet different requirements depending on the level you’re interested in: Master’s Degree: You’ll need a Bachelor’s degree with a minimum of Second Class Honours Upper Division or equivalent in a related discipline. Doctoral Degree: You’ll need a Master’s degree in a relevant field from a recognized institution. So, basically, make sure you have your academic records and transcripts ready, and you’ll be good to go! What is the entry grade for Pwani University? The entry grade for Pwani University is a KCSE mean C+ (plus) for direct entry. So if you’re applying straight out of high school, you’ll need to have scored at least a C+ in your KCSE exams. But don’t worry—if you get a C (plain) in the subjects related to your intended course, you could still be eligible for admission. What are the entry requirements for Pwani University? So, the entry requirements for Pwani University are straightforward. If you’re coming straight from high school, you’ll need a KCSE Mean Grade of C (plain) or Division III with at least 33 points at KCE or equivalent. But that’s not the only way to get into Pwani University. If you’ve got a diploma in Special Education with a minimum of a credit from a recognized institution, you could also be eligible for admission. Read Also: TVET Courses in Kenya | Requirements and Fees Pwani University fees First, the fees vary depending on your course and level. For example, if you’re a first-year student studying Bachelor’s of Environmental Studies (Community Development), you’ll pay Ksh.24,700 for the first semester and Ksh.19,200 for the second semester. Self-sponsored students studying for a Diploma in Applied Biology will pay Ksh.57,200 for the first semester and Ksh.43,200 for the second. The university accepts payments via bank deposits or MPESA, so you’ve got options. You can pay by depositing cash into one of the university’s accounts at Barclays Bank, Equity Bank, Kenya Commercial Bank, or Cooperative Bank. Or, if you prefer, you can use MPESA and pay through the university’s Pay Bill number 986450. Just remember to use your Admission Number as your account number! And let’s not forget the miscellaneous expenses, such as book allowance, food and upkeep, on-campus accommodation, and off-campus accommodation. What is the application fee for Pwani University? The application processing fee for Pwani University varies depending on whether you’re an East African or a non-East African applicant. For East Africans, the fee is Ksh. 2000 for Degree Programmes, Ksh. 1000 for Diploma Programmes, and Ksh. 500 for Certificate Programmes. Non-East Africans, on the other hand, will have to fork out Ksh—3,500 for all programmes. How much are hostel fees at Pwani University? Hostel fees at Pwani University cost between Ksh. 4,500 and Ksh. 6,000 per semester in fees. Of course, you’ll have to bring your linen and other essentials, but you’ll be living right on campus! Also, read: Plumbing Courses in Kenya Requirements and Fees How do I email Pwani University admissions? Here is how you can contact Pwani University: - Address: P.O Box 195-80108, Mombasa -Malindi Highway, Kilifi County , Kenya - Location: Kilifi, Kenya - Telephone Number: +254 725 91 61 45 - Telephone Number 2: +254 786 727 899 - Email Address: info@pu.ac.ke - Website: https://www.pu.ac.ke/ FAQs Pwani University is located in Kilifi County, Kenya. Yes, you can join Pwani University with a C grade. Check the university’s website for details. The admission office for Pwani University is at P.O. Box 195 – 80108, Kilifi – Kenya. Conclusion And that wraps up our guide to the Pawni University courses. With many excellent options, you’ll have plenty of opportunities to find a degree that’ll get your career on track. It doesn’t matter if you’re into Business, Agriculture, or something else; Pwani University could be where you find your calling. Take a closer look at their course offerings and see what strikes your fancy; you might find your dream degree at this gem of a university. References - pu.ac.ke – Bachelors Programmes - pu.ac.ke – Masters Programmes - pu.ac.ke – PhD Programmes - studyinkenya.co.ke – Diploma Courses at Pwani University


--- [Lois Wilfred Griffiths] ---
تاريخ الرياضيات الاعداد و نظريتها تاريخ التحليل تار يخ الجبر الهندسة و التبلوجي الرياضيات في الحضارات المختلفة العربية اليونانية البابلية الصينية المايا المصرية الهندية الرياضيات المتقطعة المنطق اسس الرياضيات فلسفة الرياضيات مواضيع عامة في المنطق الجبر الجبر الخطي الجبر المجرد الجبر البولياني مواضيع عامة في الجبر الضبابية نظرية المجموعات نظرية الزمر نظرية الحلقات والحقول نظرية الاعداد نظرية الفئات حساب المتجهات المتتاليات-المتسلسلات المصفوفات و نظريتها المثلثات الهندسة الهندسة المستوية الهندسة غير المستوية مواضيع عامة في الهندسة التفاضل و التكامل المعادلات التفاضلية و التكاملية معادلات تفاضلية معادلات تكاملية مواضيع عامة في المعادلات التحليل التحليل العددي التحليل العقدي التحليل الدالي مواضيع عامة في التحليل التحليل الحقيقي التبلوجيا نظرية الالعاب الاحتمالات و الاحصاء نظرية التحكم بحوث العمليات نظرية الكم الشفرات الرياضيات التطبيقية نظريات ومبرهنات علماء الرياضيات 500AD 500-1499 1000to1499 1500to1599 1600to1649 1650to1699 1700to1749 1750to1779 1780to1799 1800to1819 1820to1829 1830to1839 1840to1849 1850to1859 1860to1864 1865to1869 1870to1874 1875to1879 1880to1884 1885to1889 1890to1894 1895to1899 1900to1904 1905to1909 1910to1914 1915to1919 1920to1924 1925to1929 1930to1939 1940to the present علماء الرياضيات الرياضيات في العلوم الاخرى بحوث و اطاريح جامعية هل تعلم طرائق التدريس الرياضيات العامة نظرية البيان Lois Wilfred Griffiths المؤلف: J Green and J LaDuke المصدر: Pioneering Women in American Mathematics : The Pre-1940 الجزء والصفحة: ... 20-8-2017 4251 Died: 9 November 1981 in Skokie, Illinois, USA Lois Griffiths' parents were Frederick William Griffiths and Lena Jones. Lena had studied at Kansas State Normal School and had been a school teacher. Frederick Griffiths was born in Wales and had emigrated to the United States in 1880. He was awarded a B.A. by Oberlin College in 1893 and a B.D. by Oberlin Theological Seminary in 1896. He was ordained and married Lena Jones in 1896. He was a minister in Michigan before moving to Ohio in 1898 where Lois and her brother Harold (born 1898) were born. Soon after the birth of Lois, the family moved to Jennings, Oklahoma Territory, where they lived during 1899-1900. After working for the Minneapolis Journal, Frederick Griffiths and his family moved to Seattle in 1904. Lois was educated at elementary and secondary schools in Washington State before entering the University of Washington. Her brother, Harold F Griffiths, also studied at the University of Washington where he was in the Naval Unit and was a member of the University of Washington "Food Production Squad". During her undergraduate years Lois was assistant to Comptroller Condon of the University of Washington. She graduated with bachelor's degree in 1921 and remained at the University to study for her Master's degree. She received her Master's degree in 1923 after writing Contact Curves of the Rational Cubicwhich was published in type-written form by the University of Washington. She published a paper based on this work entitled Contact curves of the rational plane cubic in the Bulletin of the American Mathematical Society in 1925. She had been elected to membership of the American Mathematical Society at the thirtieth summer meeting of the Society held in Vassar College, New York, in September 1923. Entering the University of Chicago in October 1925, Griffiths undertook research for a doctorate in mathematics working with her thesis supervisor Leonard Dickson. She received the degree in 1927 after submitting her dissertation Certain quaternary quadratic forms and diophantine equations by generalized quaternion algebras. Immediately following the award of her doctorate, Griffiths was appointed as an Instructor in Mathematics at Northwestern University in Evanston, Illinois, where she spent the whole of her teaching career. She was promoted to an assistant professorship of mathematics in 1930 then, after spending research leave in Cambridge, England, in 1936-37, she was promoted to associate professor at Northwestern University in 1938. She published papers such as Generalized Quaternion Algebras and the Theory of Numbers (1928) and Representation of Integers in the Form x2 + 2y2 + 3z2 + 6w2 (1929), both in the American Journal of Mathematics, and A generalization of the Fermat theorem on polygonal numbers (1930) in the Annals of Mathematics. She continued to publish papers on representing numbers in certain forms with work such as Representation by Extended Polygonal Numbers and by Generalized Polygonal Numbers(1933) and Representation as Sums of Multiples of Generalized Polygonal Numbers (1936). In 1945 Griffiths produced a typewritten set of notes Determinants and systems of linear equations. She expanded the notes into a book which was published by John Wiley and Sons as Introduction to the theory of equations in 1945. In the Preface she states clearly that her aim is to guide students:- ... slowly through the proofs of the important general theorems in the elementary theory of algebraic equations. Thomas Arnold Brown in a review indicates the style of the book [2]:- A very slight background of mathematical knowledge is demanded from the reader. Nevertheless the volume deliberately represents an innovation in literary mathematical presentation. Even moderately elaborate theorems are resolved into simple elements; illustrative examples and particular cases are introduced to pave the way for the formal proofs which follow; and there is much restatement. While such methods are admirable for the classroom and will no doubt prove helpful to the lone worker of mediocre mathematical attainments, there remains a danger that the gifted student may find the going tedious and feel the waft of any stimulus to inspire him to further study. Two later typewritten sets of notes by Griffiths Outline of the theory of groups (1948) and Matrices and linear dependence (1949) were never published. Before writing her textbook, Griffiths had published a number of excellent reviews of important algebra texts. She reviewed Introduction to the Theory of Groups of Finite Order by Robert D Carmichael in 1939 [5], An Introduction to Abstract Algebra by Cyrus Colton MacDuffee in 1941 [4], and A Survey of Modern Algebra by Garrett Birkhoff and Saunders Mac Lane in 1942 [3]. In addition she continued her work on polygonal numbers, publishing papers such as:Universal functions of extended polygonal numbers (1941); Universal functions of polygonal numbers (1942); A note on representation by polygonal numbers (1942); Universal functions of polygonal numbers. II (1944); Universal functions of polygonal numbers. III (1945); and A note on linear homogeneous Diophantine equations (1946). Griffiths attended meetings of both the American Mathematical Society and the Mathematical Association of America. For example, she attended the Fifteenth Summer Meeting of the Mathematical Association in 1931 and she delivered the lecture Universal functions of polygonal numbers at the meeting of the Mathematical Association of America held in Chicago on 1 September 1941. She attended the American Mathematical Society meeting in Chicago in April 1947 and delivered the lecture Linear homogeneous diophantine equations on the afternoon of Friday 26 April. She also attended the November meeting of the American Mathematical Society in Evanston in 1954. As to her hobbies, Griffiths loved walking, gardening and cooking. She [1]:- ... liked classical music and kept notes on what she listened to on the radio. She was honoured with life membership of the Northwestern University Alumni Association in 1954. Lena Griffiths, Lois Griffiths' mother, came to live with her in Evanston in around 1945 and she continued to live with her daughter until her death in 1956. Lois Griffiths retired from her position at Northwestern University in 1964 and at that time she was made professor emeritus. Books: - J Green and J LaDuke, Pioneering Women in American Mathematics : The Pre-1940 PhD's (American Mathematical Society, Providence, RI, 2009). Articles: - T A Brown, Review: Introduction to the Theory of Equations by Lois Wilfred Griffiths, The Mathematical Gazette 33 (303) (1949), 57-58. - L W Griffiths, Book Review: A Survey of Modern Algebra by Garrett Birkhoff; Saunders MacLane. Natl. Math. Mag. 16 (5) (1942), 268-269. - L W Griffiths, Book Review: An Introduction to Abstract Algebra by Cyrus Colton MacDuffee, Natl. Math. Mag. 15 (4) (1941), 211-212. - L W Griffiths, Book Review: Introduction to the Theory of Groups of Finite Order by Robert D Carmichael, Natl. Math. Mag. 13 (7) (1939), 353-354. - L W Griffiths, On Hypergroups, Multigroups, and Product Systems. Amer. J. Math. 60 (2) (1938), 345-354. - The Eatonville Dispatch, A Weekly Paper For Tacoma Eastern People (6 September 1918). - The Eatonville Dispatch, A Weekly Paper For Tacoma Eastern People (6 December 1918).
