=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[On this day in Yankees history - Game 7 of the 2003 ALCS]
Oct 16, 2016 · The eighth inning came around and Boston was still up 5-2. Martinez was still on the mound and proceeded to give up a double to Derek Jeter, followed by a Bernie Williams single.
URL: https://bronxpinstripes.com/p/game-7-of-the-2003-alcs

[Revisiting the Grady Little Game, 15 Years Later - The Ringer]
Oct 16, 2018 · The Yankees’ Jorge Posada had doubled off of Red Sox starter Pedro Martínez to tie Game 7 of the 2003 ALCS at five runs apiece.
URL: https://www.theringer.com/2018/10/16/mlb/grady-little-pedro-martinez-15-year-anniversary-2003-alcs

[2004 American League Championship Series - Wikipedia]
Pedro Martínez relieved Lowe in the seventh inning, receiving loud chants of "Who's Your Daddy?," which intensified as he gave up a leadoff double to Hideki Matsui, who scored on Bernie Williams's double. After Jorge Posada grounded out, Williams scored on Kenny Lofton's single, but John Olerud ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2004_American_League_Championship_Series

[2003 ALCS recap - MLB.com]
Sep 30, 2022 · The Yankees and Red Sox rivalry was back, and it was on fire. Emotions reached their boiling point in Game 3 at Fenway Park, where Pedro Martinez and Roger Clemens, two of the greatest right-handers in modern history, started and were both accused of throwing at hitters.
URL: https://www.mlb.com/news/2003-alcs-recap

[October 20, 2004: ‘Hell freezes over’; Red Sox complete historic ALCS comeback over Yankees in Game 7 – Society for American Baseball Research]
Martinez had apparently asked to be used in the game.12 On a 2-and-0 count, Hideki Matsui doubled to the right-field corner. On an 0-and-2 count, Bernie Williams doubled off the wall in center, scoring Matsui. Posada grounded out to first base, Doug Mientkiewicz (who took over for Millar) tossing ...
URL: https://sabr.org/gamesproj/game/october-20-2004-hell-freezes-over-red-sox-complete-historic-alcs-comeback-over-yankees-in-game-7/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [On this day in Yankees history - Game 7 of the 2003 ALCS] ---
On this day in Yankees history - Game 7 of the 2003 ALCS Thursday, October 16, 2003. Game 7 of the ALCS against the Red Sox. Everything was on the line: a trip to the World Series, rivalry bragging rights, The Curse of the Bambino, suffering the wrath of the Boss if they lost. Pedro Martinez and Roger Clemens squared off in a rematch of game 3. The Sox took an early 4-0 lead, knocking Clemens out in the fourth inning with two on and nobody out. Mike Mussina came in for the first relief appearance of his career. He bailed out Clemens by striking out Jason Varitek and causing Johnny Damon to hit into a double play. His three innings of scoreless relief kept the Yankees in the game with help from two solo home runs in the fifth and seventh innings by Jason Giambi. The eighth inning came around and Boston was still up 5-2. Martinez was still on the mound and proceeded to give up a double to Derek Jeter, followed by a Bernie Williams single. In a move that was criticized and cursed for years afterward, Sox manager Grady Little went out to the mound, but left a tiring Martinez in the game. He proceeded to give up a back-to-back doubles to Hideki Matsui and Jorge Posada to tie the game, and eventually send it to extras. Mariano Rivera came in for the ninth and pitched three shutout innings. Tim Wakefield pitched a scoreless tenth for Boston and came back in for the eleventh. Aaron Boone, who had entered earlier as a pinch-runner, led off for the Yanks. On Wakefield's very first pitch, Boone launched a home run into the left field seats continuing the Red Sox World Series drought and lifting the Yankees to their 39th AL Pennant and sixth Fall Classic since 1996. The New York Daily News dubbed the play the "Curse of the Boonebino." It was rated the ninth best home run of all time on Baseball Tonight and earned Aaron his adoring nickname in Boston, "Aaron Fucking Boone."


--- [Revisiting the Grady Little Game, 15 Years Later - The Ringer] ---
Fifteen years ago Tuesday, a slight right-hander who wasn’t far removed from being the best pitcher his sport had ever seen wound up and fired for the 123rd time on a late Thursday night in New York. Despite what would happen on the play, the pitch was well-paced and well-placed: 95 mph at a time when 95 still made a person perk up, and either on or just off the inside corner. On a 2-2 count, it was too close to take safely, and trailing by two with one out in the eighth and runners on second and third, the batter opted not to leave his fate up to the umpire. Even the swing didn’t portend trouble: The jammed batter broke his lumber and lifted a looper that was classified as a fly ball but barely left the infield. No AL pitcher who worked exclusively as a starter that season induced a higher percentage of the hitters he faced to strike out or pop up, and either outcome easily could have happened here. Instead, the ball landed in shallow center between a trio of converging fielders. The Yankees’ Jorge Posada had doubled off of Red Sox starter Pedro Martínez to tie Game 7 of the 2003 ALCS at five runs apiece. Three innings later, the Yankees would walk off on an Aaron Boone homer to extend Boston’s streak of seasons without winning a World Series to 85. And 11 days later, the Red Sox would decline to exercise their option on Grady Little, the manager who had made the fateful decision to let Pedro keep pitching. Some things in 2018 aren’t so different from 2003: The Red Sox are in the ALCS, Pedro remains a prominent postseason presence, and managers still make maligned decisions about how long to stick with starters in Yankees–Red Sox playoff games. But Pedro is now a TBS analyst, Boone is the manager whose decisions are being savaged, and those crucial managerial junctures in important playoff games are arriving more and more often in the third or fourth inning instead of the eighth. A baby born on October 16, 2003, would be a high-school student today, as I was when I sat—or, during the eighth inning, stood—in the upper deck in right field at the old Yankee Stadium and watched the Red Sox unravel. High school doesn’t feel like it was that long ago, but the Grady game seems like an artifact from an earlier era, one in which managers’ minds and pitching moves bore little resemblance to the way they work today. With the pennant and the upper hand in a historic rivalry at stake, Martínez had cruised through the game’s first six innings with only one blemish on his line, a leadoff homer by Jason Giambi in the fifth. His first jam arose in the seventh, when he got a groundout and a Posada lineout—hit much harder than the bloop double would be—to start the inning, then allowed another Giambi blast and back-to-back singles to, of all opponents, Enrique Wilson and Karim García. (Wilson, weirdly, was a well-known nemesis of Pedro’s, which is why he started over Boone. The extremely light-hitting utility man boasted a 1.167 OPS against Pedro in 23 plate appearances through the 2003 regular season, but he went 2-for-12 with two singles thereafter, which made much more sense.) With two on and two out in the seventh, righty reliever Mike Timlin was ready to enter. But Martínez fanned the free-swinging Alfonso Soriano to end the threat and preserve the 4-2 lead. On his way back to the dugout, the starter signaled to the sky, believing his day was done. He had thrown exactly 100 pitches. David Ortiz homered in the eighth to give the Red Sox some extra insurance, and as Martínez later told Tom Verducci, Little asked him to return to the mound for the eighth. On a TBS segment last week, Pedro implied that he expected to face only one batter, the oft-injured Nick “OBP Jesus” Johnson. Johnson was a lefty, but he was 3-for-7 that season against Sox southpaw Alan Embree, which may have signified something to Little. Pedro could get anyone out—his career platoon split spanned just 29 points of OPS—and whether Little knew it or not, Johnson wasn’t susceptible to lefties. (He retired with one of the largest-ever career reverse splits for a left-handed hitter.) It wasn’t a terrible matchup, and it went Boston’s way, as Johnson popped to shortstop on the seventh pitch he saw. Pedro had gotten his hitter. Timlin and Embree had been up in the bullpen before the first out. Still, Little didn’t budge, electing to let Martínez face the right-handed Derek Jeter, who doubled (thanks in part to a Trot Nixon misread in right) on an 0-2 fastball that was lower than neck level, where Jason Varitek wanted it. Pedro’s pitch count stood at 110, with five consecutive switch-hitters or lefties due up. It was an obvious Embree opportunity, but again Little left him in. “You get the feeling that [Embree] will be the pitcher against [Hideki] Matsui one way or the other,” Tim McCarver said in the Fox broadcast booth as Bernie Williams batted. Williams lined a single to center to make it 5-3, which finally brought Little out to the mound—not to pull Pedro, but to ask him whether he had enough left to face Matsui. “A proud man, a proud baseball player, a proud pitcher, never really wants to give up his sword,” Martínez said last week. “I was a wounded warrior, but I wanted to continue to fight.” Matsui got around on another 0-2 fastball, this one in roughly the same spot as the impending pitch that would yield Posada’s double. Matsui’s double touched down a couple feet fair and bounced into the stands, setting up the equalizer that would finally knock Pedro out of the game. As the crowd roared and the foundations shook, Little trudged out to the mound, head down. He belatedly brought in Embree, who got one out and then passed the baton to Timlin, who held the Yankees scoreless through the ninth. “This is the most blatant situation for a second-guess in this series, whether to bring Embree in to pitch to Matsui,” McCarver intoned on the telecast after Matsui reached second. That might have been true if much of the audience—including Sox GM Theo Epstein and team owner John Henry—hadn’t wondered what Little was thinking well before his slow hook stabbed Sox fans through their frequently perforated feelings. “I reacted to it exactly the same way that everybody else reacted to it,” remembers Bill James, who was then a rookie Red Sox adviser watching from his home in Kansas. “I make it a point of pride never to second-guess the manager. Not only not publicly, of course, but not privately, either. It does a lot of damage in an organization if people get in the habit of second-guessing the manager. Part of the damage that that inning did was that you couldn’t AVOID second-guessing it.” Although Epstein said the decision to let Little go was “made on a body of work after careful contemplation of the big picture” and that it “did not depend on any one decision in any one postseason game,” it’s unlikely that the Sox would have cut ties with a skipper who’d presided over a combined 194 wins (October included) in his first two seasons without some precipitating incident. Avoidable as it was, it’s easy to see how that incident developed. As Joe Buck said while Jeter was sauntering to the plate in the eighth, Martínez was “regarded by many as the greatest pitcher in the game today—the most dangerous, the most dominant.” According to a park-adjusted version of Baseball Prospectus’s flagship pitching statistic, Deserved Runs Average, Pedro’s 2001, 1999, and 2000 campaigns are the three best seasons ever on a rate basis by a pitcher with at least 100 innings pitched. In 2003, then, Pedro was coming off three consecutive seasons better than any single season that any other human has ever had, followed by 2002 and 2003 regular seasons in which he recorded ERAs in the 2.20s and placed second and third, respectively, in AL Cy Young voting. When he took the mound in Game 7, Pedro was past his peak but not really past his prime: He was only 31, and according to DRA had been baseball’s fourth-best pitcher that year. Nor was he finished pitching at an elite level: 2004 would be a down year by his unassailable standards, but in 2005, his first season with the Mets, his DRA ranked second in the majors. Little’s access to an unparalleled ace was part of the problem; the other was a bullpen that recorded the game’s third-highest ERA in 2003. The Red Sox chose to prioritize other parts of the roster over the winter of 2002-03, and the result was a disastrous “closer by committee” that reigned early on more by default than by design. As the summer wore on, the pen improved to the point that it posted baseball’s best park-adjusted FIP in the last month of the regular season, thanks in part to midseason trades for Scott Williamson and Byung-Hyun Kim, the latter of whom Little insisted on anointing as the team’s closer, a role in which Kim had success. Embree, Timlin, and Williamson had combined to allow only one run in 22 2/3 postseason innings prior to ALCS Game 7, but Little’s mind was made up. He’d seen the bullpen blow Boston leads in six of Pedro’s previous starts that season, including his first playoff start, and he wasn’t going to watch it happen again in an even bigger game—especially because, as he claimed in a GQ feature the following April, he wasn’t sure whom he could count on to handle the pressure, having heard some Red Sox players sound psyched out by the club’s so-called curse. In the wake of Boston’s loss, much was made of Martínez’s .370 batting average allowed between the 106th pitch and the 120th pitch of his starts during the 2003 season. (That seemingly arbitrary range was determined by the data provider STATS, which split pitchers’ performances into 15-pitch increments.) The Red Sox’s front office was well aware of those numbers, as was Little, who chose to disregard them. But Martinez made only 10 regular-season starts in 2003 in which he threw 106 pitches or more, and in those 10 games combined, he coincidentally threw a total of 106 pitches within that 106 to 120 range. (If STATS included ALDS Game 1, in which Martinez threw 130 pitches, that would bring the totals to 11 starts and 121 qualifying pitches.) In retrospect, batting average allowed in a small, single-season sample doesn’t seem like the soundest basis for decision-making. We have better stats today. We can say, for example, that of the 219 pitchers on record who’ve thrown at least 1,500 total innings and at least 500 when facing hitters for the third time in a game, Martínez posted the 17th-best performance the third time through, relative to his overall line. Roger Clemens, Pedro’s Game 7 opponent, was 7 percent worse the third time through than he was overall; Bob Gibson and Curt Schilling were 10 percent worse; Steve Carlton and Greg Maddux were 11 percent worse; Clayton Kershaw has been 13 percent worse; Randy Johnson was 15 percent worse. Martínez was 3 percent better. In that sense, he was quite successful when he went moderately deep into games. But when that wondrous/traumatic eighth inning began, Martinez wasn’t facing hitters for the third time in the game. He was seeing them for the fourth time. Pedro didn’t go that deep very often, and when he did, it didn’t go well. Of the 380 pitchers on record who’ve thrown at least 1,500 total innings and at least 150 when facing hitters for the fourth time in a game, Pedro ranks 14th worst relative to his overall line, with a 32 percent penalty in those situations. Granted, heavily penalized Pedro was still pretty good: In an 18-year career, he allowed a .711 OPS his fourth time through the order, which is lower than Embree’s career OPS pitching out of the pen. But he clearly wasn’t the same in that scenario. On a career level, his decline after the 100-pitch point was also slightly steeper than the typical pitcher’s, although that varied in small samples from season to season. (From 2001 to 2003, Pedro was way worse from pitch 101 on than he was overall, but from 2004 to 2006, he was way better.) So no, newly accessible stats can’t contradict the conventional wisdom: Boston would have been better off with a fresh arm. But the degree to which the loss is typically pinned on Little is probably excessive. “I do think the regular narrative of that game misses something,” says sabermetrician Tom Tippett, who completed his first consulting project for the Red Sox in September 2003 and would go on to serve as Boston’s senior baseball analyst for 13 years. Tippett, who like James was also watching Game 7 from home, was surprised and dismayed when Pedro came back out for the eighth. “I was too nervous to sit, so I paced back and forth in front of the TV, muttering out loud things like, ‘I can’t believe he’s still in there,’ and ‘This isn’t going to end well,’” Tippett recalls. When Martínez blew the lead, Tippett felt as though the sequence had been foreseeable. But in 2006, NESN asked Tippett to reconstruct the circumstances of Game 7’s eighth inning and simulate the outcome repeatedly using the sophisticated probabilistic model that powered Tippett’s long-running baseball simulation game, Diamond Mind. As he rewatched Game 7 for the first time to prepare for NESN’s “What If” special, Tippett was taken aback by how few major mistakes Martínez seemed to have made in the eighth and how hard he was throwing. Data from Sports Info Solutions—which combines four-seamers and sinkers—confirms that Pedro still had his heat late in Game 7. “Tom-the-fan-in-real-time was sure Grady was wrong,” Tippett says. “Tom-the-analyst-two-years-later would still have preferred to see Grady go to the bullpen but had to acknowledge that Grady was right to think that Pedro still had plenty in the tank.” Tippett’s simulations suggested that the Red Sox would have had an 82 percent chance to win had they brought in Embree to face Matsui. But the sims also said that the Sox still had a 79 percent to win with Little leaving Pedro in. Granted, Boston’s odds might have been even higher had Embree started the eighth. And the computer couldn’t account for the fact that Little led Pedro to believe that his day would be done sooner; once he’d paced himself for a certain workload and exhausted his reserves to get to his goal, it was probably harder for him to dig deeper. Like Terry Collins in the ninth inning of Game 5 of the 2015 World Series, Little made a mistake by asking Martínez whether he wanted to stay in and expecting a transparent response from an ultra-competitive athlete. But Little’s sin wasn’t directly losing the game; it was making the Red Sox a little less likely to win. “We’d done it through the year, over and over and over,” Little told GQ, referring to trusting his ace. “We got a bad result this time. Most of the time, we got good results.” Earlier this month, Martínez defended his former manager, saying, “I still believe it wasn’t [Little’s] fault.” But Little’s mode of decision-making wasn’t long for the league, and Epstein was likely somewhat sincere when he said that Little’s ouster wasn’t tied to one event. By his own admission, the manager played “educated hunches,” and he disregarded input from the front office. Earlier in Little’s career, Peter Richmond wrote in GQ, “Grady liked managing … as much as he liked farming. In both, you were pretty much your own man.” But managers aren’t their own men anymore, and Little’s dismissal marked a major step along the path to their current role as implementers of other people’s plans. “This ownership group prefers an increased reliance on thorough and more comprehensive analysis and preparation so that the manager’s decisions are more synchronous with our player-acquisition and development decisions,” team president Larry Lucchino said in October 2003, his buzzword barrage reminding readers that baseball was a business and that the dugout wasn’t at the top of the corporate totem pole. “We seek one unified organizational philosophy.” Under Little’s successor, Terry Francona, they found it. “If Boston plays 170 or better games next year, then maybe the result of their decision was the right one,” Little said after the Red Sox cast him loose. In 2004, the Sox played 176 games and won a World Series (though not without another eighth-inning meltdown for Martínez). Little, whose media defenders included future basketball sidler Adrian Wojnarowski, later managed the Dodgers for two seasons, and he continues to serve as a special assistant in the Pirates’ front office. But his brand of believing in hunches and defying the data is almost extinct, and as a consequence, so are starts like Pedro’s. In 2003, there were 231 outings of at least 120 pitches. This year, there have been 12, and Jake Odorizzi’s September 12 start is the lone example since the trade deadline. It’s not inconceivable that we could see another postseason start that long—Justin Verlander threw 124 pitches in a complete-game ALCS win against the Yankees just last year. This year, though, bullpens have pitched a record 48 percent of playoff innings (counting openers as starters). Among postseason starters, only Verlander and Hyun-Jin Ryu have exceeded the 100-pitch threshold, and neither reached 105. Clayton Kershaw is the only starter who’s seen the eighth inning. Most October box scores look more like the Yankees’ side of Game 7, in which no pitcher threw more than three innings. Teams today are smart enough to make starters surrender their swords. But those self-impaling pitchers may have made more memories by fighting for so long. Thanks to Mark Simon of Sports Info Solutions for research assistance.


--- [2004 American League Championship Series - Wikipedia] ---
The 2004 American League Championship Series was a semifinal series in Major League Baseball's 2004 postseason deciding the American League champion earning the privilege to play in the 2004 World Series. A rematch of the previous year's ALCS, it was played between the Boston Red Sox, who had won the AL wild card and defeated the Anaheim Angels in the American League Division Series, and the New York Yankees, who had won the AL East with the best record in the AL and defeated the Minnesota Twins. The Red Sox became the first, and to date only, team in MLB history to come back from a 3–0 series deficit and ultimately win a best-of-seven series. The 2004 ALCS and the subsequent World Series has often been described as the "greatest comeback in sports history". 
In Game 1, Yankees pitcher Mike Mussina pitched a perfect game through six innings, while the Red Sox recovered from an eight-run deficit to close within one run before the Yankees eventually won. A home run by John Olerud helped the Yankees win Game 2. The Yankees gathered 22 hits in Game 3 on their way to a blowout win. The Yankees led Game 4 by one run in the ninth inning, but a steal of second base by Red Sox base runner Dave Roberts and a single by Bill Mueller off Yankees closer Mariano Rivera tied the game. David Ortiz hit a home run in extra innings for the Red Sox win. In Game 5, the Red Sox overcame an eighth inning deficit, and Ortiz hit a 14th inning walk-off single for the Red Sox for their second consecutive extra-innings victory. Curt Schilling pitched seven innings in Game 6 for the Red Sox, during which time his right foot sock became soaked in blood due to an outstanding ankle injury. Game 7 featured the Red Sox paying back New York for their Game 3 blowout with a dominant performance on the road, anchored by Derek Lowe and bolstered by two Johnny Damon home runs including a grand slam. David Ortiz was named the Most Valuable Player of the series.
The Red Sox went on to sweep the St. Louis Cardinals in the World Series, winning their first World Series championship in 86 years and ending the so-called Curse of the Bambino.


--- [2003 ALCS recap - MLB.com] ---
The Yankees and Red Sox rivalry was back, and it was on fire. Emotions reached their boiling point in Game 3 at Fenway Park, where Pedro Martinez and Roger Clemens, two of the greatest right-handers in modern history, started and were both accused of throwing at hitters. For Clemens, it was believed to be his farewell in front of his former fans in Boston, as he had announced his (first) retirement that summer. An inning after Martinez hit Karim Garcia with a pitch and then gestured threateningly at Yankees catcher Jorge Posada, Clemens threw up-and-in to Manny Ramirez, who proceeded to charge the mound and trigger a bench-clearing incident. During the melee, Yankees bench coach Don Zimmer, then 72, charged after Martinez, who stepped aside, grabbed Zimmer's head and heaved him onto the ground head first. Later there was a scuffle in the Yankees' bullpen, where a Red Sox groundskeeper scuffled with reliever Jeff Nelson. The Yankees won the game, safely exited the park and both teams alternated wins until the series reached Game 7. It was Clemens vs. Martinez again at Yankee Stadium. And this time it was not about tempers, but about strategy and a highlight for the ages. Red Sox manager Grady Little stayed with Martinez in the eighth inning -- a controversial move -- with Boston ahead, 5-2. After a subsequent double by Derek Jeter and single by Bernie Williams, Little went to the mound, but opted to keep his starter in instead of having left-handed reliever Alan Embree pitch to left-handed-hitting Hideki Matsui. Martinez then allowed a double to Matsui, followed by a bloop double from Jorge Posada, ultimately forcing extra innings. While ALCS MVP Mariano Rivera was putting up three consecutive scoreless innings of relief for New York, the Red Sox bullpen gave in. Tim Wakefield -- who had been the winning pitcher in Games 1 and 4 for Boston and pitched a scoreless 10th inning in Game 7 -- threw the first pitch of the bottom of the 11th to Aaron Boone, and the ball disappeared into the left-field seats and into rivalry lore, sending the Yankees back to the World Series. Path to the ALCS ALDS: New York over Minnesota (3 games to 1); Boston over Oakland (3 games to 2) Managers: Joe Torre, NYY; Grady Little, BOS MVP: Mariano Rivera


--- [October 20, 2004: ‘Hell freezes over’; Red Sox complete historic ALCS comeback over Yankees in Game 7 – Society for American Baseball Research] ---
October 20, 2004: ‘Hell freezes over’; Red Sox complete historic ALCS comeback over Yankees in Game 7 Everyone watching the game knew Dave Roberts was put in to try to steal second base. It was Game Four of the 2004 ALCS, and the Red Sox had lost each of the first three games of the best-of-seven series to their archrivals, the New York Yankees. The third of the three losses hadn’t even been close: a crushing 19-8 defeat at Fenway Park. No team had ever come back and won a best-of-seven series after losing the first three. The year before — 2003 — the Sox had at least taken the Yankees to Game Seven, but Boston lost that one in extra innings.1 It might have seemed more merciful for Red Sox fans to accept their fate without extending the 2004 ALCS into a fifth, sixth, or seventh game. New York held a 4-3 lead heading into the bottom of the ninth. They had Mariano Rivera on the mound, the greatest reliever the game has ever known (and the first player ever unanimously elected to the Hall of Fame). Kevin Millar walked. Manager Terry Francona sent in Roberts to pinch-run; everyone knew his mission. He pulled it off, a stolen base. Bill Mueller drove him in, tying the game. David Ortiz homered in the bottom of the 12th. The Red Sox lived for another day. In Game Five, David Ortiz again won the game in extras, with an RBI single in the bottom of the 14th. The series moved back to Yankee Stadium. Game Six: Boston’s Mark Bellhorn hit a three-run homer in the top of the fourth. Curt Schilling — bloody sock and all — held the Yankees to four hits and one run over seven innings. Bronson Arroyo and Keith Foulke pitched an inning each, and the Red Sox won, 4-2. Improbably, the stage was set for Game Seven. Indeed, no baseball team had ever lost the first three games of a best-of-seven series and come back to win four in a row.2 Yankees manager Joe Torre started righty Kevin Brown.3 In 2004 he had been 10-3 through August, but he’d lost all three of his starts in September. In the postseason, he’d been inconsistent.4 There were 56,129 fans packing Yankee Stadium. Most of them were Yankees fans, desperate to finally finish off these Red Sox and get back in the World Series.5 The Red Sox were the wild-card team in 2004 and they’d looked like pushovers in the first three games. But the self-styled “Idiots” showed resilience and a winning spirit in Games Four through Six.6 What had looked like a laugher of an LCS had evolved into real drama. Still, all the odds were with the New York Yankees. Brown was a bust in Game Seven. Johnny Damon led off for the Red Sox and singled to left on the sixth pitch, then stole second base. Brown struck out Bellhorn, and when Manny Ramírez singled to left, Damon was cut down at the plate on a relay, setting off a roar from the Yankees faithful. But that man again — Big Papi, David Ortiz — swung at the first pitch he saw and homered a couple of rows deep into the short porch in right field. It was 2-0 after the first inning, Red Sox starter Derek Lowe setting down the Yankees in order.7 Brown got Trot Nixon to ground out in the top of the second, but that was the only out he got. Kevin Millar singled, and then Brown walked Bill Mueller and shortstop Orlando Cabrera (on eight pitches). Torre made a move and beckoned in Javier Vázquez from the bullpen.8 Damon crushed the first pitch Vazquez threw for a grand slam to right field, giving the Red Sox a 6-0 lead. Any air of optimism Yankees fans were harboring evaporated. The crowd was “shell-shocked,” in the words of TV broadcaster Joe Buck.9 New York still had a chance to win, of course. They would bat for eight more innings, but the feeling was palpable: the resurgent Red Sox had fully risen from the dead and momentum was on their side. “The Red Sox couldn’t wait to get to the park today,” said Buck. Lowe walked Jorge Posada in the bottom of the second inning but he was the only one to reach base. In the third, he hit Miguel Cairo — who then stole second base and scored on a single by Derek Jeter. The Yankees were on the board, but they trailed 6-1. After Cabrera walked to lead off the top of the fourth, Damon came up again. He swung at the first pitch. Once more he homered, this time into the upper deck in right. Now it was 8-1. Damon had six runs batted in. Whatever small hope Yankees fans had taken from Jeter’s RBI, it was likely extinguished. Vazquez walked two of the next three batters, and was replaced by Esteban Loaiza. He gave up a single to load the bases, but then secured the final two outs. The Yankees went down one-two-three in the fourth, with only a Bernie Williams fly ball to left leaving the infield. They went down in order in the fifth, and in the sixth, on a combination of groundouts and strikeouts. Not one ball left the infield. The New York Times observed that the Stadium was starting to empty after the sixth.10 Considering the perhaps never-higher intensity of the Red Sox-Yankees rivalry in 2003 and 2004, Allan Wood has said the idea that Yankees fans would abandon their team in the last three innings of an ALCS Game Seven against the Red Sox was truly mind-blowing.11 The Red Sox still held a comfortable lead. Francona surprised everyone by bringing in Pedro Martínez to relieve Lowe in the bottom of the seventh. Martinez had apparently asked to be used in the game.12 On a 2-and-0 count, Hideki Matsui doubled to the right-field corner. On an 0-and-2 count, Bernie Williams doubled off the wall in center, scoring Matsui. Posada grounded out to first base, Doug Mientkiewicz (who took over for Millar) tossing to Pedro covering the bag. Williams ran to third base. Kenny Lofton singled up the middle into center, scoring Williams. The score was now 8-3. The New York crowd began to buzz as Lofton stole second. But Martinez struck out pinch-hitter John Olerud and got Cairo to fly out to right. The Yankees were down to their last six outs. Leading off in the top of the eighth, Mark Bellhorn homered off Tom Gordon, off the right-field foul pole, sending a statement of sorts. The Red Sox fans in the Stadium — many of the Yankees fans had bailed by this time — were exultant, boldly and loudly cheering their team. Mike Timlin set down the Yankees in order in the bottom of the eighth; once more, not a ball left the infield. In the top of the ninth, Nixon singled to left, Mientkiewicz dropped a single into left, and after Mueller hit a ball deep enough to center that Nixon could tag up and take third, Cabrera did the same thing: flied out to center, this time Nixon tagging up and scoring to make it 10-3. Joe Buck observed, “It’s the Red Sox fans making all the noise here at Yankee Stadium.”13 Matsui led off the bottom of the ninth with a single. He was forced out on a Bernie Williams grounder to short. After Posada popped up to short, Williams took second on defensive indifference — one run would hardly matter at this point. Lofton walked. Francona bought in Alan Embree to take over from Timlin. Embree closed it out, inducing Ruben Sierra to ground out to Pokey Reese at second base, 4-3. The Red Sox had done what just about everyone had believed was impossible — coming back to win the final four games of the best-of-seven ALCS. “We haven’t won in a while,” said Derek Jeter.14 It was the greatest comeback in baseball history. Yankee Stadium became the scene of a raucous Red Sox celebration. The Boston Globe observed: “Thousands of Boston fans gathered in the stands behind the dugout and players tossed equipment and sprayed champagne into the stands while the throng chanted, ‘Let’s go, Red Sox!’”15 “Mark it down,” wrote Dan Shaughnessy in the Globe. “October 20. It will always be the day that Sox citizens were liberated from 8½ decades of torment and torture at the hands of the New York Yankees and their fans.”16 Derek Lowe, pitching on only two days of rest, had worked six full innings and allowed just one base hit. He got the win, of course. He had gotten the win in the deciding game of the AL Division Series. And, it would turn out, he was also the winning pitcher in the clinching game of the World Series. The Red Sox continued to ride the momentum they had generated, sweeping the St. Louis Cardinals in four games in the World Series. It was the first of four championships the Red Sox won between 2004 and 2018. The Yankees won the 2009 World Series, winning the title in their first season in a new ballpark, just as they had back in 1923, in the first year of the original Yankee Stadium. Sources In addition to the sources cited in the Notes, the author consulted Baseball-Reference.com and Retrosheet.org. For a comprehensive oral history of the Red Sox 2004 postseason, see Allan Wood and Bill Nowlin, Don’t Let Us Win Tonight (Chicago: Triumph Books, 2014), which draws on 59 interviews with Red Sox players, personnel, and others. retrosheet.org/boxesetc/2004/B10200NYA2004.htm baseball-reference.com/boxes/NYA/NYA200410200.shtml Notes 1 The Red Sox hadn’t won a World Series since 1918, while the Yankees had won more than any player had fingers (and toes) that could sport world championship rings. The Red Sox had played a Game Seven in four World Series (1946, 1967, 1975, 1986), and lost all four times. They had also lost a one-game playoff in 1978 to determine the winner of the AL East, and in 1949 they had needed to win only one of the final two games of the season against the Yankees to win the pennant, but lost both. 2 In the 1942 Stanley Cup Final, the Toronto Maple Leafs lost the first three games to the Detroit Red Wings, but then won four in a row; the 1975 New York Islanders had also come back from an 0-3 deficit. 3 Brown was a six-time All-Star who’d been with the Dodgers in 2003 (14-9, 2.39). 4 He’d won Game Three of the Division Series, however, holding the Twins to just one run in eight innings of work. In Game Three of the ALCS (the one the Yankees won, 19-8), Brown had surrendered four runs in the second inning, and the Red Sox briefly held a 4-3 lead. When the Yankees scored three runs in the top of the third, Joe Torre brought in Javier Vazquez. 5 The Yankees had lost to the Florida Marlins in the 2003 World Series. The last Series they had won was in 2000, the last year of the twentieth century. For the Red Sox, it had been 86 years. 6 The 2004 Red Sox called themselves the Idiots, a moniker reflected in at least three book titles in 2005: Idiot: Beating “The Curse” and Enjoying the Game of Life by Johnny Damon with Peter Golenbock (Crown), Emperors and Idiots by Mike Vaccaro (Doubleday), and Idiot-Syncrasies by A. Knoefel Longest (Adams Media). In 2014 Ian Browne’s book Idiots Revisited (Tilbury House) also used the word. 7 Lowe had been a reliever for his first seven seasons in the big leagues. Converted to a starter in 2002, he was 21-8 (2.58). He’d had a decent 2003 season, but in 2004 seemed to sputter; he was 14-12 but with a disappointing 5.42 earned-run average. 8 Vazquez was a righty and a starter who had been 14-10 in the regular season. He was also the Game Three winner in the ALCS, replacing Brown, who had given up four runs in the second inning of that game. 9 A good, condensed summary of game highlights is available on YouTube at youtube.com/watch?v=ownBa0hI2Mk. The full game is available on YouTube, as well. 10 Michelle O’Donnell, “For Yankees’ Faithful, a Defeat Beyond Belief,” New York Times, October 21, 2004: D4. 11 Allan Wood email to author on August 16, 2020. 12 Tim McCarver, on the Fox television broadcast. 13 Joe Buck, on the Fox television broadcast. 14 Jack Curry, “Boston Counters Rodriguez’s Slap With Knockout Punch,” New York Times, October 21, 2004: D3. 15 Boston Globe, October 21, 2004: C11. A photograph caption on the page read, “Yankee Stadium is overrun by Red Sox Nation.” The champagne the Yankees had expected to pop after either Game Four or Game Five had remained unopened. 16 Dan Shaughnessy, “A World Series Ticket,” Boston Globe, October 21, 2004: 1. Additional Stats Boston Red Sox 10 New York Yankees 3 Game 7, ALCS Yankee Stadium New York, NY Box Score + PBP: Corrections? Additions? If you can help us improve this game story, contact us.
