=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Assassination attempt on Osagyefo Dr Kwame Nkrumah - Ghana Web]
Aug 1, 2020 · Exactly 58 years ago, on 1 August 1962, Osagyefo Dr Kwame Nkrumah escaped a bomb assassination attempt on his life at Kulungugu in the Upper East Region.
URL: https://mobile.ghanaweb.com/GhanaHomePage/NewsArchive/Today-in-history-Assassination-attempt-on-Osagyefo-Dr-Kwame-Nkrumah-1023241

[News – The White House]
1 day ago · Peace Through Strength: President Trump Launches Operation Epic Fury to Crush Iranian Regime, End Nuclear Threat Articles March 1, 2026
URL: https://www.whitehouse.gov/news/

[293. Editorial Note - Historical Documents - Office of the Historian]
Prime Minister Kwame Nkrumah made an official visit to Washington July 23–26, 1958. ... While in Washington, Prime Minister Nkrumah met with President Eisenhower ...
URL: https://history.state.gov/historicaldocuments/frus1958-60v14/d293

[The White House]
President Donald J. Trump and Vice President JD Vance are committed to lowering costs for all Americans, securing our borders, unleashing American energy dominance, restoring peace through ...
URL: https://www.whitehouse.gov/

[Kulungugu: Remembering bomb attack on Nkrumah - Graphic Online]
Kulungugu: Remembering bomb attack on Nkrumah. Gilbert Mawuli Agbey Features Jun - 24 - 2022 , 09:54 4 minutes read. Located in the Pusiga District in the ...
URL: https://www.graphic.com.gh/features/features/kulungugu-remembering-bomb-attack-on-nkrumah.html


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Assassination attempt on Osagyefo Dr Kwame Nkrumah - Ghana Web] ---
No content


--- [News – The White House] ---
Menu Search Search for: Scroll Left News Gallery Livestream Investments SAVE America WH Wire Contact News Gallery Livestream Contact Investments SAVE America WH Wire Scroll Right Close News Featured Articles Lab Leak: The True Origins of Covid-19 January 6: A Date Which Will Live in Infamy Arrested: Worst of the Worst Criminal Aliens Receiving Medicaid The JFK Files The RFK Files Briefings & Statements Fact Sheets Presidential Actions Executive Orders Nominations & Appointments Presidential Memoranda Proclamations Remarks Research Administration President Donald J. Trump First Lady Melania Trump Vice President JD Vance Second Lady Usha Vance The Cabinet Executive Office of The President Office of Management and Budget Office of Science and Technology Policy Council of Economic Advisors Office of the National Cyber Director Office of National Drug Control Policy Council on Environmental Quality Media Photo Gallery Video Library Livestream White House Wire Media Offenders Priorities Top Priorities Lead the World in AI Grow the Economy Strengthen National Security Reform Government (DOGE) Make America Healthy Again Secure the Border Unleash American Energy Support Public Safety Protect Religious Liberty Key Initiatives The SAVE America Act Working Families Tax Cuts School Choice Freedom 250 AI.Gov Crypto FIFA The Trump Gold Card Restoring Maritime Dominance Fostering the Future Summer Reading Challenge Make America Healthy Again The MAHA Report The Great Healthcare Plan TrumpRx Eat Real Food Council on Sports, Fitness, and Nutrition Investments Major Investments in America Pledge to America’s Youth Trump Accounts for Children Wins and Achievements About The White House A Timeline Our Government America’s Founding Freedom 250 The Founders Museum America’s Founding Fathers The Story of America: Video Series Road to Liberty: Video Series Signers of the Declaration of Independence Holidays at The White House Christmas at The White House The White House Easter Egg Roll Get Involved Contact The White House Visit The White House Apply for an Internship Find Your Representative SAVE America Stay Informed Email Updates Text WIN to 45470 for Alerts Follow on Social Media Featured Featured The Great Healthcare Plan 365 Days of Wins About President Trump About Vice President Vance 365 Days of Wins Read the Latest The Great Healthcare Plan INVESTMENT ANNOUNCEMENTS First Year in Office 2025 Stanley Cup Champions America's Founding East Wing Expansion View Full Video Contact The White House X Instagram TikTok Share Icon Share Icon Facebook YouTube News Search Select Category All Articles Briefings & Statements All Executive Orders Nominations & Appointments Presidential Memoranda Proclamations Fact Sheets Remarks Research All Articles Briefings & Statements Presidential Actions All Executive Orders Nominations & Appointments Presidential Memoranda Proclamations Fact Sheets Remarks Research 74 Times President Trump Has Made Clear That Iran Cannot Have a Nuclear Weapon Articles March 2, 2026 Presidential Message on Colorectal Cancer Awareness Month Briefings & Statements March 2, 2026 First Lady Melania Trump Addresses U.N. Security Council, Championing Peace Through Education Briefings & Statements March 2, 2026 Nominations Sent to the Senate Presidential Actions , Nominations & Appointments March 2, 2026 The Iranian Regime’s Decades of Terrorism Against American Citizens Articles March 2, 2026 The President and First Lady’s Message on Read Across America Day Briefings & Statements March 2, 2026 65th Anniversary of the Peace Corps Briefings & Statements March 1, 2026 Peace Through Strength: President Trump Launches Operation Epic Fury to Crush Iranian Regime, End Nuclear Threat Articles March 1, 2026 President Trump Is Delivering for Texans Articles February 27, 2026 President Trump Delivers his 2026 State of the Union Address Articles February 25, 2026 1 2 3 … 160 Next Notifications


--- [293. Editorial Note - Historical Documents - Office of the Historian] ---
293. Editorial Note Prime Minister Kwame Nkrumah made an official visit to Washington July 23–26, 1958. For text of President Eisenhower’s invitation to him, dated March 4, 1958, and his reply, see Public Papers of the Presidents of the United States: Dwight D. Eisenhower, 1958, pages 211–213. While in Washington, Prime Minister Nkrumah met with President Eisenhower, Secretary of State Dulles, and other U.S. officials and addressed both Houses of Congress. For the records of Prime Minister Nkrumah’s discussions with President Eisenhower, see Documents 294 and 295. A memorandum of a conversation between Nkrumah and Secretary of State Dulles on the subject of the Middle East is in Department of State, Central Files, 033.45J11/7–2458. A memorandum of a conversation with Under Secretary of State Herter concerning Ghana’s economic aims is ibid., Conference Files: Lot 63 D 123, Nkrumah Visit. Additional documentation concerning the visit, including briefing material, is ibid. A briefing memorandum of July 19 from Dulles to Eisenhower is in the Eisenhower Library, Whitman File, International Series. The text of the joint statement issued by President Eisenhower and Prime Minister Nkrumah on July 26 is printed in American Foreign Policy: Current Documents, 1958, pages 1093–1095. The texts of Nkrumah’s addresses before the Senate on July 24 and the House of Representatives on July 25 and the exchange of greetings between the Prime Minister and Vice President Richard M. Nixon are printed in Department of State Bulletin, August 18, 1958, pages 284–286. Prime Minister Nkrumah was in the United States July 23–August 2. After leaving Washington, he visited Philadelphia, New York, and Chicago.


--- [The White House] ---
Under President Donald Trump’s second administration, the United States has surged into a new era of prosperity, marked by record-setting economic growth and trillions in new private-sector investments fueled by tax reforms, deregulation, and a renewed focus on American innovation. The nation has solidified its position as the global leader in artificial intelligence, with record-setting capital expenditures driving productivity and technological advancement. At home, decisive policies have secured the southern border, reducing illegal entries to historic lows unseen in decades and restoring national sovereignty, while energy dominance and cost-cutting measures have significantly improved affordability for families. Abroad, a doctrine of peace through strength has secured alliances, ended eight wars, and positioned America as an indispensable force for global stability. As these achievements compound, we have unmistakably entered a Golden Age of American greatness, promising even greater opportunity and security ahead. Donald J. Trump 45th & 47th President of the United States


--- [Kulungugu: Remembering bomb attack on Nkrumah - Graphic Online] ---
Kulungugu: Remembering bomb attack on Nkrumah Located in the Pusiga District in the Upper East Region, Kulungugu is the famous town and place where Ghana’s first President, Osagyefo Dr Kwame Nkrumah, escaped a bombing attempt on his life. The town which derived its name from the Bissa language is the last town and minor entry point at the border between Ghana and Burkina Faso. Advertisement Origin According to history, a Bissa man who became the first chief of the town lived not too far from a crooked shea tree and people in search of him were always told to look out for the crooked shea tree since his house was close to it. In Bissa, shea nut is “kur” while crooked is translated as “ghungu”. Thus, the crooked shea tree in Bissa is translated as “Kur ghunghu”. As the settlement expanded, the people in the community were referred to as “Kur ghungu people” but due to the difficulty in the pronunciation of the name, it was corrupted to Kulungugu. On August 1, 1962, the town gained both local and international attention when Dr Nkrumah, during a visit to the town, survived an assassination attempt on his life, which was orchestrated by his political opponents. Assassination attempt The first Ghanaian leader was returning from a meeting with the then President of Burkina Faso, Maurice Yameogo in Tenkodogo, in the neighbouring French-speaking nation, during which a document was signed by both presidents towards the construction of a major hydroelectric project over the Volta Lake. Dr Nkrumah’s trip back to Ghana by road was hampered by a downpour and the bad state of the road through Kulungugu hampered the movement of the presidential convoy. After getting wind of the information that Dr Nkrumah would pass through the town en route to Accra, a number of schoolchildren and the elderly lined up along the major street through the town to catch a glimpse and wave him as well. Due to pressure on the convoy to stop and the excitement which was visibly written on the faces of the enthusiastic schoolchildren, former President Nkrumah stopped to respond to the cheers and speak to the schoolchildren. As a 14-year-old schoolgirl walked toward Dr Nkrumah to present a bouquet of flowers to welcome him, the flowers exploded, killing the girl instantly and injuring several others. State of monument Immediately after the sad incident, members of the Kulungugu community came together to build a statue at the exact place where the incident occurred in honour of Dr Nkrumah, to preserve the history of the incident and to remember others who died and got injured as well. But 60 years after its construction, the statue located in the middle of the road through the town is currently not in good shape and not befitting of the status of Dr Nkrumah who laid a solid socio-economic foundation toward the growth and development of the country. Parts of the statue have been defaced, which makes it very difficult for especially visitors to identify it as the statue of Ghana’s first President. NNDP’s intervention Fortunately, a yet-to-be registered political party, Nkrumah Never Dies Party (NNDP), formed to champion the ideals of Ghana’s first President, Dr Kwame Nkrumah, has initiated steps to rehabilitate the defaced statue. Speaking to the Daily Graphic after a brief ceremony for work to begin on the project, the Founder of the NNDP, Amusu Kwaggrey, said the statue constructed 60 years ago had not seen any major rehabilitation, hence its deterioration. He noted that “As a country, we cannot afford to lose historic artefacts, especially Nkrumah’s statue at Kulungugu, as it would be a great disservice to generations yet to be born since such history would elude them,” he said. For his part, an opinion leader of the town, James Abilla Yahaya, commended the NNDP and its partners for coming together to renovate the statue, which is cherished by members of the community.
