=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[LPI - Directors of the modern Physical Institute - lebedev.ru]
Feb 16, 2026 · 8. Experimental techniques, new physical methods in scientific research, in technology medicine and ecology History LPI Achievements Science P.N.Lebedev Physical Institute of the Russian Academy of Science Leninskiy Prospekt 53, Moscow Development and support - FIAN computer center website@lebedev.ru
URL: https://www.lebedev.ru/en/history-lpi/123.html

[Records of the P. N. Lebedev Physical Institute of the Russian Academy ...]
Fizicheskiĭ institut imeni P.N. Lebedeva The P. N. Lebedev Physical Institute of the Russian Academy of Sciences was founded upon base of the Physical Department of the Physical-Mathematical Institute of the Academy of Sciences of the USSR. The directors of the institute: S. I. Vavilov (1934-1951), D. V. Skobel'tzin (1951-1972), and N. G. Basov (1972- ). From the description of Records of ...
URL: https://www.snaccooperative.org/vocab_administrator/resources/8316876

[Lebedev Physical Institute - Scientific Lib]
The Lebedev Physical Institute of the Russian Academy of Sciences (LPI RAS) (in Russian: Физи́ческий институ́т имени П.Н.Ле́бедева Российской академии наук (ФИАН)), situated in Moscow, is one of the leading Russian research institutes specializing in physics.
URL: https://www.scientificlib.com/en/Physics/Institute/LebedevPhysicalInstitute.html

[Lebedev Physical Institute - Reference.org]
The Lebedev Physical Institute of the Russian Academy of Sciences (LPI RAS or just LPI) (in Russian: Физи́ческий институ́т имени П.Н.Ле́бедева Российской академии наук (ФИАН)), situated in Moscow, is a Russian research institute specializing in physics. The institute was established in its present shape in 1934 by academician Sergey ...
URL: https://reference.org/facts/lebedev_physical_institute/pV2sbo70

[Lebedev Physical Institute - Alchetron, the free social ...]
Nov 22, 2024 · The Lebedev Physical Institute of the Russian Academy of Sciences (LPI RAS) (in Russian: Физический институт имени П.Н.Лебедева Российской академии наук (ФИАН)), situated in Moscow, is one of the leading Russian research institutes specializing in physics. It is also one of the oldest research institutions in Russia: its history dates ...
URL: https://alchetron.com/Lebedev-Physical-Institute


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [LPI - Directors of the modern Physical Institute - lebedev.ru] ---
Vavilov Sergei Ivanovich (1934-1951) Skobeltsyn Dmitry Vladimirovich (1951-1972) Basov Nikolai Gennadievich (1973-1988) Keldysh Leonid Veniaminovich (1989-1994) Krokhin Oleg Nikolayevich (1994-2004) Mesyats Gennady Andreyevich (2004 - 2015) Kolachevsky Nikolay Nikolaevich (since 2015) The major directions of activity of tiie Institute are: 1. Tiieoretical ptiysics, including quantum field theory, quantum statistics and the theory of fundamental interactions, nonlinear physics; high energy physics, elementary particle physics, nuclear physics; biophysics; 2. Physics of charged particle accelerators; high-power pulse electronics; physical electronics; 3. Classical and quantum optics, luminescence, light scattering; spectroscopy of atoms, molecules, condensed media, gases and plasma; X-ray optics; 4. Quantum radiophysics; interaction of laser radiation with matter; nonlinear optics; laser metrology; information technologies; 5. Plasma physics; controlled thermonuclear fusion; laser thermonuclear fusion; 6. Solid state physics; semiconductors; mesoscopy; solid state nanostructures; nanotechnologies; optoelectronics; superconductivity; 7. Astrophysics, astronomy in all ranges, cosmic rays, cosmology (ground- and space-based, experimental and theoretical research); solar physics, physics of the atmosphere, ionosphere and magnelosphere of the Earth and planets; planet and applied astronomy; 8. Experimental techniques, new physical methods in scientific research, in technology medicine and ecology


--- [Records of the P. N. Lebedev Physical Institute of the Russian Academy ...] ---
Social Networks and Archival Context Verifying that you are not a bot... please wait. (JavaScript and cookies are required).


--- [Lebedev Physical Institute - Scientific Lib] ---
The Lebedev Physical Institute of the Russian Academy of Sciences (LPI RAS) (in Russian: Физи́ческий институ́т имени П.Н.Ле́бедева Российской академии наук (ФИАН)), situated in Moscow, is one of the leading Russian research institutes specializing in physics. It is also one of the oldest research institutions in Russia: its history dates back to a collection of physics equipment established by Peter the Great in the Kunstkamera of Saint Petersburg in 1714. The institute was established in its present shape in 1934 by academician Sergey Vavilov. It moved to Moscow and was named after a prominent Russian physicist Pyotr Lebedev the same year. It is also known as Lebedev Institute of Physics or just Lebedev Institute. In Russian it is often referred to by the acronym FIAN (ФИАН) standing for "Physical Institute of the Academy of Sciences". The wide range of the research activities includes: laser technology, dark matter structure, nanostructures, superconductivity, cosmic rays, and gamma-astronomy. The institute developed a technique of crystallizing cubic zirconia (which was called Fianit in Russia, named after FIAN). Directors of the Institute Sergey Vavilov (1934–1951) Dmitri Skobeltsyn (1951–1972) Nikolay Basov (1973–1988) Leonid Keldysh (1988–1994) Oleg Krokhin (1994–2004) Gennady Mesyats (2004–2015) Nikolai Kolachevsky (2015–) Nobel prizes awarded to FIAN scientists Nobel laureates who worked at the LPI: Cherenkov, Tamm, Frank, Basov, Prokhorov, Sakharov, Ginsburg. 1958 — Pavel Cherenkov, Igor Tamm, Ilya Frank: "for the discovery and the interpretation of the Cherenkov-Vavilov effect". 1964 — Nikolay Basov, Alexander Prokhorov: "for fundamental work in the field of quantum electronics, which has led to the construction of oscillators and amplifiers based on the maser-laser principle". 1975 — Andrei Sakharov won a Peace Prize for his campaigning for human rights. 2003 — Vitaly Ginzburg: "for pioneering contributions to the theory of superconductors and superfluids". Publications of the Institute "Краткие сообщения по физике" (in Russian); English version: Bulletin of the Lebedev Physics Institute "Квантовая электроника" (in Russian); English translation: Russian Journal of Quantum Electronics (formerly Soviet Journal of Quantum Electronics) See also Prokhorov General Physics Institute Pushchino Radio Astronomy Observatory Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/" All text is available under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License


--- [Lebedev Physical Institute - Reference.org] ---
No content


--- [Lebedev Physical Institute - Alchetron, the free social ...] ---
The Lebedev Physical Institute of the Russian Academy of Sciences (LPI RAS) (in Russian: Физический институт имени П.Н.Лебедева Российской академии наук (ФИАН)), situated in Moscow, is one of the leading Russian research institutes specializing in physics. It is also one of the oldest research institutions in Russia: its history dates back to a collection of physics equipment established by Peter the Great in the Kunstkamera of Saint Petersburg in 1714. The institute was established in its present shape in 1934 by academician Sergey Vavilov. It moved to Moscow and was named after a prominent Russian physicist Pyotr Lebedev the same year. It is also known as Lebedev Institute of Physics or just Lebedev Institute. In Russian it is often referred to by the acronym FIAN (ФИАН) standing for "Physical Institute of the Academy of Sciences". Contents - Directors of the Institute - Nobel prizes awarded to FIAN scientists - Publications of the Institute - References The wide range of the research activities includes: laser technology, dark matter structure, nanostructures, superconductivity, cosmic rays, and gamma-astronomy. The institute developed a technique of crystallizing cubic zirconia (which was called Fianit in Russia, named after FIAN). Directors of the Institute - Sergey Vavilov (1934–1951) - Dmitri Skobeltsyn (1951–1972) - Nikolay Basov (1973–1988) - Leonid Keldysh (1988–1994) - Oleg Krokhin (1994–2004) - Gennady Mesyats (2004–2015) - Nikolai Kolachevsky (2015–)
