=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Kathleen McNulty Antonelli (1921 - 2006) - Biography]
Apr 20, 2006 · Kathleen McNulty's parents were James McNulty (1890-1977) and Anne Nelis (1892-1966). James McNulty was born in Creeslough in Donegal County, Ireland where his family had owned a large part of the hillside for generations. He was the youngest of his parents' seven children.
URL: https://mathshistory.st-andrews.ac.uk/Biographies/Antonelli/

[Irish American Heritage Month: Kathleen McNulty, an Irish American ...]
Mar 6, 2023 · Kathleen Rita McNulty was born in the village of Creeslough on February 12, 1921, the third of six children of Anne Nelis and James McNulty. Her father was Commandant of the Doe Battalion of the Irish Volunteers. On the night of her birth, he was arrested and imprisoned in Derry Gaol for two years for his republican activities. On his release, the family emigrated to the United States and ...
URL: https://aoh.com/2023/03/06/irish-american-heritage-month-kathleen-mcnulty-an-irish-american-hidden-figure-2-2/

[McNulty, Kathleen Rita ('Kay') | Dictionary of Irish Biography]
McNulty, Kathleen Rita ('Kay') (1921-2006), pioneering computer programmer, was born on 12 February 1921 in the townland of Feymore, Creeslough, Co. Donegal, the third of six children (three boys and three girls) of James McNulty (1890-1977) and his wife Anne or Annie (née Nelis). Around 1908 James McNulty emigrated from Creeslough to Philadelphia and trained as a stonemason. Involved in ...
URL: https://www.dib.ie/index.php/biography/mcnulty-kathleen-rita-kay-a9949

[Kathleen Antonelli - Wikipedia]
Kathleen Rita Antonelli (née McNulty; formerly Mauchly; 12 February 1921 - 20 April 2006), known as Kay McNulty, was an Irish computer programmer and one of the six original programmers of the ENIAC, one of the first general-purpose electronic digital computers. The other five ENIAC programmers were Betty Holberton, Ruth Teitelbaum, Frances Spence, Marlyn Meltzer, and Jean Bartik.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kathleen_Antonelli

[Kathleen Antonelli - scientificlib.com]
Kathleen Antonelli Kathleen "Kay" McNulty Mauchly Antonelli (February 12, 1921 - April 20, 2006) was one of the six original programmers of the ENIAC, the first general-purpose electronic digital computer.
URL: https://www.scientificlib.com/en/ComputerScience/Biographies/KathleenAntonelli.html


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Kathleen McNulty Antonelli (1921 - 2006) - Biography] ---
Kathleen Rita McNulty Mauchly Antonelli Quick Info Born 12 February 1921 Creeslough, County Donegal, Ireland Died 20 April 2006 Wyndmoor, Pennsylvania, USA Summary Kathleen McNulty Antonelli was an Irish-born American computer programmer who was one of the first to work with the early ENIAC machine. Biography Before we begin this biography, we should explain the names under which we have listed Kathleen McNulty in this archive. She was given the name Kathleen Rita McNulty but, after she married John Mauchly in 1948, she became Kay Mauchly then, some years after John Mauchly's death in 1980, she married Severo Antonelli. Kathleen McNulty's parents were James McNulty (1890-1977) and Anne Nelis (1892-1966). James McNulty was born in Creeslough in Donegal County, Ireland where his family had owned a large part of the hillside for generations. He was the youngest of his parents' seven children. His father Patrick McNulty died in 1892 and his mother Catherine McNulty in 1902 so by age eleven he was brought up by his older brothers. He decided to follow one of his older brothers who became an apprentice stonemason in the United States, and sailed from Londonderry to New York arriving on 9 May 1909. In Philadelphia he trained to become a stonemason, but also became involved in Irish politics joining a group which was raising money for guns and ammunition to fight against British rule of Ireland. He returned to Ireland in 1914 in order to recover from typhoid fever and served as commandant of the Doe Battalion of the Irish Volunteers. He planned to marry Anne Nelis and they had an American style home built on her brother's farm. They married on 1 February 1917. In early 1919 James McNulty was involved in an attempt to seize guns from the home of a protestant JP. James was shot and seriously injured; recovery was a slow affair. Kathleen, the subject of this biography, had two older brothers Patrick John McNulty (1918-1986) and James Joseph McNulty (1919-2001). On 7 February 1921 Kathleen's father was with a group of men who blew up a railway bridge causing a derailment in which fifteen British soldiers were injured. On the night that Kathleen was born, 12 February, he was arrested at his home and kept in Derry Jail. In July 1921 he was sentenced to five years penal servitude for "having alleged seditious documents." In December 1921 he was one of about a dozen IRA prisoners who attempted to break out of Derry Jail. Two Royal Irish Constabulary guards were killed in the attempt. On 12 January 1922 he was released from prison and all charges were dropped. Three of his fellow prisoners who had been involved in the escape attempt were sentenced to death for the murder of the two guards but they were released in 1925. James decided to emigrate to America and went to prepare the way, leaving his wife and children in Ireland. In August 1923 he sailed from Londonderry to New York on the S S California arriving on 2 September. He went to Philadelphia where he built a house in Wyndmoor, a district of Chestnut Hill. He declared his intention to become a naturalised American citizen on 27 June 1924. The family, Annie, Patrick, James, Kathleen and her sister Anna Marie McNulty (1923-2003) sailed on the S S Columbia from Londonderry to New York arriving on 13 October 1924. After two years in the house at Wyndmoor, the family moved to a larger home at 48 Highland Avenue in Chestnut Hill. The 1930 US Census shows the family to have increased with Cecilia Marguerite McNulty (1926-2014) and John Joseph McNulty (1928-1992) both being born in Philadelphia. Living with them are John McNulty, the oldest brother of James McNulty and 14 years his elder, and Hugh Nelis, Annie's brother. The first is a labourer in the building trade, the second a labourer in gardening. They also have two lodgers, one an electrician in the building trade, the other a gardener. Kathleen's education was in Catholic Schools in the United States beginning in 1927. After seven years in her first school, she entered Hallahan High School, an all girls Catholic school. You can read about a summer job she took while at the High School at THIS LINK. After graduating from Hallahan High School in 1938 she began her studies at Chestnut Hill College for Women in Philadelphia where she was offered a scholarship [1]:- I had taken an academic course in high school. I had taken four years of mathematics, four years of English, four years of Latin, three years of French, and a year each of biology and chemistry. When I got to college and my counsellor asked me what I wanted to major in, I thought that since I was there on a scholarship, I would have to keep my marks up. The easiest way to do that was to take mathematics as a major. I loved it and found it fun and easy to do. I didn't want to teach. I just wanted to do the maths puzzles. I took algebra, differential calculus, integral calculus, differential equations, different kinds of geometry, astronomy, and two years of physics. Originally, I intended to minor in physics. ... I didn't want to teach. I thought that business sounded like a good thing, so I changed my minor to business administration. Then I took courses in business, accounting, money and banking, and anything else that had to do with business. She graduated from Chestnut Hill College in 1942. You can see many more details of McNulty's childhood and education in her own description at THIS LINK. Of course 1942 was in the middle of World War II and by this time the war was strongly affecting the direction of academic research. The United States was specifically directing its research schools and staff towards the war effort. The University of Pennsylvania's Moore School of Engineering began putting on training courses for electronics and other disciplines as part of this war effort. They also began early research in the use of computers. The Ballistic Research Laboratory had been set up at Aberdeen, in Harford county, northeastern Maryland as part of the Aberdeen Proving Ground, a military weapons testing site which had been established in 1917 during World War I. The Ballistic Research Laboratory consisted of staff from the Moore School and staff from the Aberdeen Proving Ground using their expertise on joint projects. After graduating Kay McNulty answered an advertisement by the Moore School of Engineering for "math majors" and she applied, was interviewed and was employed as a mathematician; she worked on preparing firing tables for guns. McNulty described the work which she did in the following way [16]:- We did have desk calculators at that time, mechanical and driven with electric motors, that could do simple arithmetic. You'd do a multiplication and when the answer appeared, you had to write it down to re-enter it into the machine to do the next calculation. We were preparing a firing table for each gun, with maybe 1,800 simple trajectories. To hand-compute just one of these trajectories took 30 or 40 hours of sitting at a desk with paper and a calculator. As you can imagine, they were soon running out of young women to do the calculations. Actually, my title working for the ballistics project was "computer". The idea was that I not only did arithmetic but also made the decision on what to do next. ENIAC made me, one of the first "computers", obsolete. The ENIAC computer (Electronic Numerical Integrator and Computer) which McNulty refers to in the above quote was being constructed by John Mauchly and John Eckert in the Moore School of Engineering during the war years. It was designed for the specific task of compiling tables for the trajectories of bombs and shells to take over the calculations which McNulty and about 75 other women were carrying out. However the war had ended before the machine came into service but it was still used for the numerical solution of differential equations as intended. McNulty was one of six women who became operators of ENIAC making very substantial contributions to computer science, although it took many years before they received the credit which they deserve for their pioneering work. In the interview [5] McNulty spoke about the first problem that ENIAC was given:- ... the very first day that the ENIAC was finally declared it is now ready to work, although it hadn't been fully tested, our test will be the feasibility of the H bomb. It was a tremendous, tremendous problem that had been brought in from Los Alamos. It was Dr Fermi and Dr Teller's problem, and it was the feasibility of the trigger which they had designed. So we put that problem on the ENIAC. Now, someone had asked us a little while ago about the tubes and the reliability of them. There were many tubes that failed, but the ENIAC was built in such a way that a tube did not have to generate a certain amount of power - This is a vacuum tube I'm talking about, which in those days were pretty large. They were about five inches tall, each one, and there were 18,000 in the ENIAC. Which generated a tremendous amount of heat and everything. These tubes were not operated full power. Any amount of power would turn them on. So they only operated in an on or an off position. If they were on at all, they transmitted the power. If they were off, they didn't. And that was the basic thing. So when we first started to operate the machine, we found out that there were a number of tubes that had actually failed, and another bad solder joints that had gone on and so on. Once those things got ironed out, the machine was really quite reliable and it operated very well. So the problem that came from Los Alamos at that time, we did not program it. The physicists who came from Los Alamos had actually programmed it. They had studied all about the ENIAC because they had Top Secret clearance, and they were able to have access to these wiring diagrams before we did, even. So they were able to program it and we helped them, all of us girls (girls we were called in those days) helped them program it and help them run it. It took about two and a half months. This first program run on the ENIAC was declared a success and it was announced that it would be demonstrated to the world on 15 February 1946. Linde Lunney writes [9]:- The public launch of the ENIAC machine as the first general-purpose electronic digital computer took place on 15 February 1946, causing great excitement in the scientific and business communities, as the potential importance of such machines was already evident. The event, however, relegated the women programmers to the role of hostesses, and official reports and early histories of computing made no mention of female operators. Tellingly, as mid-century America reversed the gains made in wartime by women in employment, science and public engagement, some contemporary observers even regarded the women in the project as 'refrigerator ladies': models employed to stand elegantly in front of machines that they did not understand. Petzinger, in [13], describes the way that McNulty used ENIAC to solve differential equations after the construction of the machine was complete in February 1946:- The first task was breaking down complex differential equations into the smallest possible steps. Each of these had to be routed to the proper bank of electronics and performed in sequence - not simply a linear progression but a parallel one, for the ENIAC, amazingly, could conduct many operations simultaneously. Every datum and instruction had to reach the correct location in time for the operation that depended on it, to within 15000\large\frac{1}{5000}\normalsize50001​th of a second. On 7 February 1948 McNulty married John Mauchly, one of the two designers of the ENIAC computer. She explained in [7] why marrying was an emergency:- ... when I first married John, and that was, he said, a great emergency. His mother was sick, his wife had previously died two years before that, and his mother was not well. His children didn't have anybody much looking after them. And the housekeeper that he had hired to look after the children was about to have a baby and she was going to leave, and oh, he had so many compelling reasons why we should get married. So, anyway, we did. Her parents, however, objected to the marriage [3]:- Her mother objected to the union on the grounds that Mauchly was not Irish or Catholic, was 14 years her senior, and was a widower with two children. On their honeymoon, he presented Kay with a cookbook, with the words: "You are our new cook." While cooking and raising seven children, Kay continued, uncredited, to programme the new computers that her husband developed. In fact Kathleen's parents refused to attend their daughter's wedding and only after the birth of her first child, Sally, did her mother relent and visit her. Kathleen and John Mauchly had five children, Sally (born 1949), Kathy (born 1951), Bill (born 1953), Gini (born 1954) and Eva (born 1958). Sally majored in mathematics for her first degree, was awarded a master's degree in mathematical education and became a teacher. Kathy majored in biology and took a master's degree in biochemistry. Bill became an electrical engineer, Gini studied languages and Eva studied music. By the time of their wedding, John Mauchly had left the Moore School and soon was designing further computers in partnership with John Eckert. John and Kay Mauchly lived on a farm in Amber, Pennsylvania, and Kay continued to work with her husband on the design of computer programs for the later BINAC and UNIVAC computers. She contributed skills in software design to these projects which complemented her husbands expertise in hardware design. After John Mauchly's death, Kathleen gave many talks on his work [1]:- I learned how to construct a talk and began speaking at various functions. UNIVAC hired me to be their representative at various national sales meetings and other places. I gave the keynote address at the celebration of the 40th anniversary of the ENIAC, when we met Kathryn Kleiman. I always spoke as John's widow, not as myself. Some years after the death of her husband in 1980, she married the photographer Severo Antonelli and lived in Pennsylvania. She became a celebrity with many invitations to speak. She began to speak for herself, not simply as John Mauchly's widow speaking about him [1]:- All the years I gave talks about the ENIAC, I always talked about it as John's story, not my story. Although I mentioned that I had been an ENIAC Programmer, it was just in passing. I told of John's part in the development of ENIAC, about BINAC and UNIVAC, and his companies. I wrote a monthly article about John Mauchly for a little bulletin for some computer club. A member of that club arranged for Jean Bartik, Kathe Jacoby and me to speak at Princeton about our experiences. I think that was the first time that I spoke for myself. ... Betty Jean Bartik and I have given many, many talks together at universities and companies including IBM and Microsoft. ... I love doing it, but I mainly talk about being there. We even gave the keynote speech for an awards banquet of ACM. I went with Betty when Northwest Missouri University named their computer museum after her. The recognition of the work she and other women did was long in coming but eventually the importance of their work was acknowledged. Kay Antonelli was inducted into the Women in Technology International Hall of Fame in 1997. She was a keynote speaker at the Women In Technology International's East Coast Summit in Boston in 1998. She received an honorary doctorate from Chestnut Hill College. A scholarship in computer science is named in her honour at the Letterkenny Institute of Technology in Ireland. A computer science building was renamed in her honour in Dublin City University in 2017. Antonelli died of cancer at Keystone Hospice in Wyndmoor and her funeral was held in St Anthony's Roman Catholic Church, Ambler. For a detailed description of Kathleen Rita McNulty Mauchly Antonelli's life as she herself described it, see THIS LINK. [Note. Anyone wanting to see a different view from Antonelli's about the beginning of electronic computing should read [2].] K Antonelli, The Kathleen McNulty Mauchly Antonelli Story, ENIAC. https://sites.google.com/a/opgate.com/eniac/Home/kay-mcnulty-mauchly-antonelli or THIS LINK. A R Burks and A W Burks, The first electronic computer (The University of Michigan Press, Ann Arbor, 1988). A Byrne, Kay McNulty, the Irish 'mother of computer programming', The Irish Times (20 June 2018). M A Conn and T McGuire (eds.), Sisterly love: Women of note in Pennsylvania history (Hamilton Books, 2015). ENIAC Programmers Keynote at WITI New York Network Meeting 1998, Open Transcripts (23 February 2998). http://opentranscripts.org/transcript/eniac-programmers-witi-1998/ W B Fritz, The women of EMIAC, University of Washington Computer Science & Engineering. https://courses.cs.washington.edu/courses/csep590a/06au/readings/00511940-frist.pdf Kay Mauchly on Finding Out about ENIAC, Programming It, and Marrying John Mauchly, Open Transcripts (1 January 1977). http://opentranscripts.org/transcript/kay-mauchly-eniac-programming/ K Kohler, Alumna one of the mothers of modern-day computer programming, Alumni News, Chestnut Hill College (2019). https://www.chc.edu/news-center/news/alumna-one-mothers-modern-day-computer-programming L Lunney, McNulty, Kathleen Rita ('Kay'), Dictionary of Irish Biography (Cambridge University Press, December 2017). K R Mauchly, John Mauchly's early years, Annals of the History of Computing 6 (2) (1984), 116-138. M Mulvihill (ed.), Lab Coats and Lace: The Lives and Legacies of Inspiring Irish Women Scientists and Pioneers (Women in Technology and Science, 2009). C Petrocelli, Il computer è donna: eroine geniali e visionarie che hanno fatto la storia dell'informatica (Edizioni Dedalo, 2019). T Petzinger, History of software begins with the work of some brainy women, Wall Street Journal (November 1996). D Ritchie, The Computer Pioneers : The making of the modern computer (New York, 1986). J Shurkin, Engines of the Mind : A History of the Computer (New York, 1984). R Strauss, When computers were born, Los Angeles Times (7 February 1996). H Williams, Invisible Women: The Six Human Computers Behind The ENIAC, lifehacker au. https://www.lifehacker.com.au/2015/11/invisible-women-the-six-human-computers-behind-the-eniac/ Additional Resources (show) Written by J J O'Connor and E F Robertson Last Update March 2021


--- [Irish American Heritage Month: Kathleen McNulty, an Irish American ...] ---
Kathleen Rita McNulty was born in the village of Creeslough on February 12, 1921, the third of six children of Anne Nelis and James McNulty. Her father was Commandant of the Doe Battalion of the Irish Volunteers. On the night of her birth, he was arrested and imprisoned in Derry Gaol for two years for his republican activities. On his release, the family emigrated to the United States and settled in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, where James worked as a stonemason and went on to establish a successful construction business, frequently working with Irish American John B Kelly, the father of the future Oscar-Winning actress Grace, Coming from the Gaeltacht, Kathleen did not start speaking English until she began to attend school. Her mother encouraged her “to prove that Irish immigrants could be as good, if not better, than anybody.” She proved a bright student and won a scholarship to Chestnut Hill College. Kathleen loved mathematics and took every math course available, including spherical trigonometry, differential calculus, projective geometry, partial differential equations, and statistics. McNulty graduated as one of the school’s few female math majors in 1942. Graduating at the height of WW II, she soon saw an ad in the Philadelphia Inquirer seeking women with math backgrounds. The U.S. Army was seeking women to perform the grueling and precise calculations to compile firing tables for long-range guns, calculations that needed to be accurate out to ten decimal places. Kathleen was hired with the official job title of “Computer.” Within a few months, McNulty was transferred to work with the “differential analyser[sic]” at the Moore School of Engineering at the University of Pennsylvania. The “analyser” was the most sophisticated calculator of the time. Using the “analyser,” a single trajectory that had previously taken 50 hours to compute by hand could now be performed in less than one hour. Kathleen excelled at the detailed, meticulous work and was soon promoted to supervising calculations. She and other staff members worked six days a week, with the only holidays being Christmas and the Fourth of July. In 1945, Kathleen and five other women were selected to work at the Aberdeen Proving Grounds in Maryland to develop the programs to run the top-secret 30-ton machine called the Electronic Numerical Integrator and Computer (ENIAC), the world’s first programmable, electronic, general-purpose digital computer.. ENIAC could perform the calculations that took the “analyser” an hour in less than ten seconds but would require developing a brand-new engineering discipline: Software Engineering. McNulty is credited with creating “the subroutine,” a block of reusable computer code that can be used again and again rather than being rewritten over and over, to work past some of the limitations of ENIACs early logic circuits. McNulty would later recall that in making ENIAC a success as the first digital computer, she made herself “the human computer” obsolete. With the end of WW II, the vital role that Kathleen McNulty and her fellow women “computers” was soon unceremoniously and unjustly forgotten. When the decision was made to reveal ENIAC as the first digital computer to the world, the role of Kathleen and the other women played in making ENIAC successful was relegated to the shadows. They were told to act as hostesses to the government officials and reporters covering the event and to “stand by the computer and look good.” Kathleen McNulty married ENIAC’s designer Mauchly and went on to have five children with him (in addition to raising two from his previous marriage). While she continued to contribute to the field of computer science, programming several of her husband’s later computers, it was always behind the scenes. After Mauchly’s death, she late married Severo Antonelli. Kathleen McNulty died on April 20, 2006. She had come along way from the little Irish girl who had come to America not speaking English, and in the process, shaped the digital world we now live in. She deserves to be better remembered, and this is why we have and need Irish American Heritage Month. Neil F. Cosgrove ©


--- [McNulty, Kathleen Rita ('Kay') | Dictionary of Irish Biography] ---
McNulty, Kathleen Rita ('Kay') (1921–2006), pioneering computer programmer, was born on 12 February 1921 in the townland of Feymore, Creeslough, Co. Donegal, the third of six children (three boys and three girls) of James McNulty (1890–1977) and his wife Anne or Annie (née Nelis). Around 1908 James McNulty emigrated from Creeslough to Philadelphia and trained as a stonemason. Involved in Clan na Gael, he returned to Creeslough in 1915 to take part in the struggle for Irish independence. He became commandant of the Doe battalion of the Irish Volunteers, which, owing to confusion and poor communications, took no part in the 1916 rising. After the rising, he continued to recruit and organise Volunteers, and also worked with the local Sinn Féin club, helping to establish Doe Cooperative Society in Creeslough in 1920. In an attempt to seize guns from the home of a protestant JP in early 1919, McNulty was shot and seriously wounded. After a slow recovery, he returned to active service with the IRA and organised the sabotage of a railway bridge outside Creeslough (7 February 1921); fifteen British soldiers were injured in the resulting derailment. Arrested the day after his daughter was born, he was imprisoned in solitary confinement in Derry jail, under threat of execution, until released in the general amnesty of December 1921. He opposed the Anglo–Irish treaty and, unwilling to recognise the new government of the Irish Free State, returned to Philadelphia in 1923 to join a brother in a construction business; his wife and family travelled to America in October 1924. He was successful in his business, working with John B. Kelly, father of Princess Grace of Monaco, and was involved in the construction of important government buildings. He returned to Ireland in 1966, and died in Creeslough in 1977. The household, in Chestnut Hill, Philadelphia, was Irish-speaking, and Kay first learned English from her two older brothers (she remembered her prayers in Irish for the rest of her life). She attended the parish grade school and then Hallahan Catholic Girls' High School, where she was an excellent student. Chestnut Hill College offered her a scholarship, and she graduated in spring 1942, having majored in mathematics. By then the US army had a pressing need for mathematicians to produce ballistics calculations and, with a scarcity of trained men, McNulty was one of a number of women taken on to work as 'computers' at the Moore School of Electrical Engineering at the University of Pennsylvania. Calculating missile trajectories, using the desk calculators and tables then available, took each woman about forty hours, and hundreds of such calculations were required. McNulty and another woman were trained to use a recently-built differential analyser machine (an analogue device, reliant on mechanical operations), which speeded up calculations. A much more sophisticated machine, designed on quite novel principles, using electrical circuits to execute calculations, was being developed in great haste at the army's Aberdeen Proving Ground in Maryland. In June 1945 McNulty was one of six women selected to work on this room-sized ENIAC (Electronic Numerical Integrator and Computer). For the next few months, the women collaborated with the engineers who were still working on the design and construction of ENIAC; there were no manuals, only design blueprints, as the machine was still incomplete. McNulty and others devised the processing routines that enabled the machine to carry out calculations, more or less establishing the ways in which artificial intelligence subsequently developed. ENIAC had no memory capabilities: its programmes had to be input manually, using punch cards and realigning wiring and switches, for each calculation. McNulty is credited with suggesting the concept of subroutines, in which the master programmer element of the instructions to the machine was set to trigger the reuse of sections of code, enabling the logical circuits to carry more capacity. Once they began to perform calculations on the actual machine, McNulty and her colleagues became expert in diagnosing problems and finding where the machine's physical wiring or some of the 17,468 vacuum tubes or 5,000,000 hand-soldered connections had failed, as they did at first every few hours. The public launch of the ENIAC machine as the first general-purpose electronic digital computer took place on 15 February 1946, causing great excitement in the scientific and business communities, as the potential importance of such machines was already evident. The event, however, relegated the women programmers to the role of hostesses, and official reports and early histories of computing made no mention of female operators. Tellingly, as mid-century America reversed the gains made in wartime by women in employment, science and public engagement, some contemporary observers even regarded the women in the project as 'refrigerator ladies': models employed to stand elegantly in front of machines that they did not understand. (Even in 1986, five of the women who had first programmed the 'beast' were not invited to the fortieth anniversary celebration of the birth of the electronic computing age. Kay McNulty was there, and gave an address, but did so as the widow of one of the men who had developed ENIAC. Only as the 1980s ended was the women's contribution to the development of computer systems acknowledged and celebrated.) On 7 February 1948 Kay McNulty married John Mauchly. Her parents were not present, and were deeply upset by her decision to marry a non-catholic, fourteen years her senior, who had a son and a daughter by a first marriage. John Mauchly was one of the engineers chiefly responsible for designing the hardware of ENIAC; his first wife, also a gifted mathematician, had worked with him, but drowned while on holiday in 1946. Mauchly was also suffering chronic illness, hereditary haemorrhagic telangiectasia (which all but one of his and Kay's five children inherited), necessitating constant vigilance and frequent hospitalisation; he later developed diabetes. Until her marriage, McNulty had continued to work on ENIAC through 1947 and 1948, testing the device during its re-assembly after a move to the Aberdeen Proving Ground. It is possible she was also involved in its development into a machine with a rudimentary capacity to store an operating system. In her autobiography, Kay noted without comment that her new husband gave her a cookbook on their honeymoon, and that she was thereafter expected to be the family cook; she left paid scientific work on her marriage. McNulty's possible contribution to developing technology and information systems after her years on ENIAC is now difficult to trace. She may have provided some suggestions in discussions of her husband's pioneering work on the first computer designed for commercial use, UNIVAC, built by his company, Eckart-Mauchly. However, the couple were increasingly preoccupied by legal tussles over patents (which they lost) and difficulties with Mauchly's security clearance, and spent considerable time in disputes with former colleagues and attempts to establish companies and new projects. For the rest of her life, Kay was bitter about how the industry and the government treated her husband, and ardently defended his work and his claims to priority in the computer revolution. In 2002, she was able to accept John Mauchly's posthumous induction into the National Inventors Hall of Fame. Kay and John Mauchly had four daughters and a son. While rearing her children, she volunteered in youth and church organisations and did some supply teaching in elementary schools. John Mauchly died on 8 January 1980. Kay married again on 27 December 1985; her second husband was a successful, Italian-born photographer, Severo Antonelli. Her years with him were busy and enjoyable, with travel and social engagements, until he developed Parkinson's disease. He died after two difficult years on 14 December 1995. In her latter years, Kay McNulty Mauchly Antonelli was lionised as one of the invisible women scientists rediscovered in the late twentieth century, and developed considerable skills of communication and presentation as she was sought out to attend conferences and functions to discuss and record the role of the women pioneers of information science. Her online autobiography captures some of the excitement of the wartime work for which she became famous. In April 1999 she and an ENIAC colleague went on a lecture tour in Ireland, and were filmed for a feature documentary, Oh Kay computer (1999). She revisited Creeslough for the first time since 1924, and met many of her relatives there. During her visit, a prize for the best student in computer science was established in her honour at Letterkenny Institute of Technology. In 1997 she and her five female colleagues were inducted into the Women in Technology Hall of Fame. After suffering from cancer, she died on 20 April 2006 in Wyndmoor, Pennsylvania. A computer science building was renamed in her honour in Dublin City University in 2017.


--- [Kathleen Antonelli - Wikipedia] ---
Kathleen Rita Antonelli (née McNulty; formerly Mauchly; 
12 February 1921 – 20 April 2006), known as Kay McNulty, was an Irish computer programmer and one of the six original programmers of the ENIAC, one of the first general-purpose electronic digital computers. The other five ENIAC programmers were Betty Holberton, Ruth Teitelbaum, Frances Spence, Marlyn Meltzer, and Jean Bartik.




--- [Kathleen Antonelli - scientificlib.com] ---
| | Kathleen "Kay" McNulty Mauchly Antonelli (February 12, 1921 – April 20, 2006) was one of the six original programmers of the ENIAC, the first general-purpose electronic digital computer. Early life and education She was born Kathleen Rita McNulty in the Creeslough Gaeltacht (Irish-speaking region) of County Donegal, Ireland in 1921 during the Irish War of Independence. On the night of her birth, her father, James, who was an Irish Republican Army training officer, was arrested and imprisoned in Derry Gaol for 2 years. On his release, the family emigrated to the United States in October 1924 and settled in Pennsylvania where James McNulty established a successful stone masonry business. At the time, Kathleen was unable to speak any English, only Gaelic; she would remember prayers in Gaelic for the rest of her life. After attending parochial grade school in Chestnut Hill and Hallahan Catholic Girls High School in Philadelphia, she graduated with a degree in mathematics from Chestnut Hill College for Women in June 1942 (the attack on Pearl Harbor had shaken her senior year). Out of a class of 92 women, Kathleen was one of 3 math majors to graduate that year, and all of them had taken every mathematics course offered: two semesters of algebra, the history of math, integral calculus, spherical trigonometry, differential calculus, projective geometry, partial differential equations, and statistics. (In high school she had taken a year of algebra, a year of plane geometry, a second year of algebra, and a year of trigonometry and solid geometry.) During her third year of college, Kathleen began the job hunt, knowing that she wanted to work in mathematics but didn't want to be a schoolteacher. She learned that insurance companies' actuarial positions required a master's degree and were seldom filled by women anyway. Feeling that business training would make her more employable, she took as many business courses as her college schedule would permit: accounting, money and banking, business law, economics, and statistics. Career as a computer But a week or two after graduating, she happened to see a U.S. Civil Service ad in The Philadelphia Inquirer. Under the headline "Wanted: Women With Degrees in Mathematics," it read, "The need for women engineers and scientists is growing both in industry and government... Women are being offered scientific and engineering jobs where formerly men were preferred. Now is the time to consider your job in science and engineering... you will find that the slogan there as elsewhere is 'WOMEN WANTED!'." The Army was looking for women with mathematics degrees--right there in Philadelphia. She immediately called her two co-math majors, Frances Bilas and Josephine Benson. The latter couldn't meet up with them, so Kathleen and Fran met in Philadelphia one morning in June 1946 for an interview in a building on South Broad Street (likely the Union League Building), where they were informed of positions available through Aberdeen Proving Grounds at the University of Pennsylvania. Shortly thereafter, the two both received letters telling them to report for a week at the Moore School of Electrical Engineering, University of Pennsylvania, 33rd and Walnut Streets, beginning a day in early July 1942. At a starting annual salary of $1,620, pay for the position computing ballistics trajectories used for artillery firing tables (mostly using mechanical desk calculators and extremely large sheets of columned paper) was low (S.P. 4, a "sub-professional" pay grade), but both Kathleen and Fran were satisfied to have attained employment that utilized their educations, during wartime, having had no prior employment experience, and that served the war effort. Her official civil service title, as printed on her employment documentation, was "computer." With about 10 other "girls" (as the female computers were called) and 4 men--a group recently brought to the Moore School from Aberdeen Proving Grounds in Maryland--Kay and Fran would conduct their work in a large, empty classroom on the first floor of the Moore School; the same room would later be the one where the ENIAC was built and operated until December 1946. Despite all their coursework, their mathematics training had not prepared Kay (as she came to be called early on at the Moore School) and Fran for their work calculating trajectories for firing tables: they were both unfamiliar with numerical integration methods used to compute the trajectories, and the textbook lent to them to study from (Numerical Mathematical Analysis, 1st Edition by James B. Scarborough, Oxford University Press, 1930) provided little enlightenment. The two newcomers ultimately learned how to perform the steps of their calculations, accurate to ten decimal places, through practice and the advisement of a well-liked supervisor, Lila Todd. A total of about 75 young female computers were employed at the Moore School in this period, many of them taking courses from Adele Goldstine, Mary Mauchly, and Mildred Kramer. The work was tedious, and many of them dropped out due to workload, but Kay became prominent among the computing women. After 2 or 3 months, Kay and Fran were moved to work on the differential analyzer in the basement of the Moore School, the largest and most sophisticated analog mechanical calculator of the time, of which there were only 3 in the United States and 5 or 6 in the world (all of the others were in Great Britain). Using the analyzer (invented by Vannevar Bush of MIT a decade prior and made more precise with improvements by the Moore School staff), a single trajectory computation--about 40 hours of work on a mechanical desk calculator--could be performed in about 50 minutes. Career as an ENIAC programmer The ENIAC was developed for the purpose of performing these same calculations between 1943-1946. In June 1945, Kay was selected to be one of its first programmers, along with several other women from the computer corps: Betty Snyder, Marlyn Wescoff, and Ruth Lichterman, and a fifth computer named Helen Greenman (nicknamed "Greenie.")[1] When Greenie declined to go to Aberdeen for training because she had a nice apartment in West Philadelphia and a 1st alternate refused to cut short a vacation in Missouri, Betty Jean Jennings, the 2nd alternate, got the job, and between June and August of 1945 they received training at Aberdeen Proving Grounds in the IBM punch card equipment that was to be used as the I/O for the ENIAC. (Later, Kay's college schoolmate and fellow computer Fran Bilas would join the team of ENIAC programmers at the Moore School, though she did not attend the initial training at Aberdeen.) The computer could complete the same ballistics calculations described above in about 10 seconds, but it would often take one or two days to set the computer up for a new set of problems, via plugs and switches. It was the women's responsibility to determine the sequence of steps required to complete the calculations for each problem and set up the ENIAC according; early on, they consulted with ENIAC engineers such as Arthur Burks to determine how the ENIAC could be programmed. Because the ENIAC was a classified project, the programmers were not at first allowed into the room to see the machine, but they were given access to blueprints from which to work out programs in an adjacent room. Programming the ENIAC involved discretizing the differential equations involved in a trajectory problem to the precision allowed by the ENIAC and calculating the route to the appropriate bank of electronics in parallel progression, with each instruction having to reach the correct location in time to within 1/5,000th of a second. Having devised a program on paper, the women were allowed into the ENIAC room to physically program the machine. Much of the programming time of the ENIAC consisted of setting up and running test programs that assured its operators of the whole system's integrity--every vacuum tube, every electrical connection needed to be verified before running a problem. Kay transferred to Aberdeen Proving Ground's Ballistics Research Laboratory along with the ENIAC when it was moved there in mid-1947; she was joined by Ruth Lichterman and Fran Bilas, but the other three women began families or started other jobs, preferring to stay in Philadelphia rather than relocate to the remote Aberdeen and live an Army base life. Family life ENIAC co-inventor John Mauchly, who had since departed his post as a professor at the Moore School to found his own computer company along with Presper Eckert, made frequent trips to Washington, D.C. during this period, and stopped in to check up on the ENIAC in Aberdeen. Mauchly had already hired Betty Jean Jennings (who had married and now went by Jean Bartik) and Betty Snyder (now called Betty Holberton) and had hoped to attract Kay to his fledgling company as well. But Mauchly's wife had died in a September 1946 drowning accident, and as a recent widower with two children, Mauchly instead proposed to Kay, who was almost 14 years his junior. Resigning her post at Aberdeen, and without the blessing of her Irish Catholic parents, she married him in 1948. They lived initially in his row house on St. Mark's Street near the University of Pennsylvania, and later in a large farmhouse called Little Linden in Ambler, Pennsylvania. With Mauchly, Kay had five children. She later worked on the software design for later computers including the BINAC and UNIVAC I computers whose hardware was designed by her husband. Later life John Mauchly died in 1980 following several bouts of illness and recoveries, and she married photographer Severo Antonelli in 1985. After a long struggle with Parkinson's disease, her second husband died in 1996; Kay had suffered a heart attack while caring for him, but made a full recovery. Following Mauchly's death, Kay carried on the legacy of the ENIAC pioneers by authoring articles, giving talks (frequently along with Jean Bartik, with whom she remained lifelong friends), and making herself available for interviews with reporters and researchers. She was inducted into the Women in Technology International Hall of Fame in 1997 along with the other original ENIAC programmers, and she accepted the induction of John Mauchly into the National Inventors Hall of Fame in Akron, Ohio in 2002. Kay was diagnosed with inoperable cancer in early 2006, and died in April at the age of 85. Trivia * While her official date of birth is always listed as February 12th, Kay herself suspected she may have been born on February 13, the date having been "fudged" by her family according to a common practice out of Irish triskaidekaphobic superstition. * Kay's first husband John Mauchly suffered from hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia, or HHT, a genetic disorder that leads to vascular malformations. Because HHT is autosomal dominant, children of a single carrier have a 50% chance of inheriting the disease. While neither of Mauchly's two children from his previous marriage appear to have inherited HTT, most of Kay's children with him have been diagnosed with HHT. Links * Biography from the University of St Andrews, Scotland * Philadelphia Inquirer: death notice * Death of Donegal's Computing Pioneer Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/" | |
