=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Sanduk Ruit - Wikipedia]
Asteroid 83362 Sandukruit, discovered by Bill Yeung in 2001, was named in his honor. The official naming citation was published by the Minor Planet Center on 30 March 2010 (M.P.C. 69494). On December 17, 2015, he was conferred with the National Order of Merit of Bhutan [in Gold].
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sanduk_Ruit

[Nepali eye-surgeon awarded by Bhutanese King]
Bhutanese King Jigme Khesar Namgyel Wangchuck granted Dr Ruit the National Order of Merit, Gold award during the national day celebrations of Bhutan. Dr Sanduk Ruit received the award along with 45 former Bhutanese civil servants, four artists ...
URL: https://kathmandupost.com/national/2015/12/21/nepali-eye-surgeon-awarded-by-bhutanese-king

[His Majesty awards National Order of Merit - BBSCL]
A 77-year old retired diplomat and Executive Chairman of Pro Bhutan, Germany, Harald Nestroy, was awarded a National Order of Merit, Gold, for his 28-years of contribution in health and education sectors in Bhutan. Dr. Sanduk Ruit, an internationally renowned eye-surgeon from Nepal was awarded National Order of Merit, Gold.
URL: https://www.bbs.bt/55360/

[National Order of Merit, Gold awarded – The Bhutanese]
Harald Nestroy was awarded the National Order of Merit, Gold, in recognition of hisservicesto Bhutan. Harald Nestroy, 77, the Executive Chairman of Pro Bhutan, Germany, is a retired German diplomat, who has been a longstanding friend of Bhutan since 1987. Pro Bhutan, Germany has assisted Bhutan in constructing health and education infrastructure and traditional structures, such as the Punakha Hospital, school for hearing-impaired students in Drugyel, and the Punakha Bazam. Dr. Sanduk Ruit
URL: https://thebhutanese.bt/national-order-of-merit-gold-awarded/

[Dr Sanduk Ruit flooded with congratulations - Nepal Minute :: Nepal Minute - out of the ordinary]
In November, 2019, Dr Ruit thanked India for honouring him with the Padma Shri award. Around the same time, he appreciated Bhutan for deciding to confer the National Order of Merit of Bhutan on him.
URL: https://www.nepalminute.com/detail/1637/dr-sanduk-ruit-flooded-with-congratulations-2023-Jan-18-122900


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Sanduk Ruit - Wikipedia] ---
Sanduk Ruit (Nepali: सन्दुक रूइत; pronounced [ˈsʌnduk rui̯t]) is an ophthalmologist from Nepal who is involved in restoring the sight of over 250,000 people across North America, Africa and Asia using small-incision cataract surgery (RUITECTOMY) and Phacoemulsification cataract surgery.
Ruit is the founder and the executive director of the Tilganga Institute of Ophthalmology, which manufactures intraocular lenses for surgical implantation at a fraction of the previous manufacturing cost. The low cost has made cataract surgeries slightly cheaper in Nepal.
Ruit has been referred to as the "God of Sight", a moniker that he earned after restoring the sight of a 60-year-old woman through cataract surgery in Indonesia.
He was awarded the Ramon Magsaysay Award for Peace and International Understanding, considered to be the Asian equivalent of the Nobel Prize, for "placing Nepal at the forefront of developing safe, effective, and economical procedures for cataract surgery, enabling the needlessly blind in even the poorest countries to see again." 
He was awarded with the ISA award, the highest civilian award in Bahrain by the king of Bahrain for developing highly affordable and sustainable ways to cure cataracts throughout the developing world with a cash prize of 1 million dollars.


--- [Nepali eye-surgeon awarded by Bhutanese King] ---
National Nepali eye-surgeon awarded by Bhutanese King Dr. Sanduk Ruit, a Nepali ophthalmologist, has been awarded with the National Order of Merit, Gold, in recognition for his services to Bhutan and its people at Royal Banquet Hall in Paro, Bhutan.Dr. Sanduk Ruit, a Nepali ophthalmologist, has been awarded with the National Order of Merit, Gold, in recognition for his services to Bhutan and its people at Royal Banquet Hall in Paro, Bhutan. Bhutanese King Jigme Khesar Namgyel Wangchuck granted Dr Ruit the National Order of Merit, Gold award during the national day celebrations of Bhutan. Dr Sanduk Ruit received the award along with 45 former Bhutanese civil servants, four artists and 50 educators. Dr Ruit, 61, who grew up in a remote part of north-eastern Nepal and studied medicine in India, is now taking his model to other developing countries. Ruit has been mentored by an Australian Professor, Fred Hollows. He has pioneered a simple cataract microsurgery technique that costs only $25 per patient and is virtually always successful. According to the New York Times, his “Nepal method” is also taught in United States medical schools.


--- [His Majesty awards National Order of Merit - BBSCL] ---
No content


--- [National Order of Merit, Gold awarded – The Bhutanese] ---
No content


--- [Dr Sanduk Ruit flooded with congratulations - Nepal Minute :: Nepal Minute - out of the ordinary] ---
Life & Health Congratulations are pouring in for Nepali ophthalmologist Dr Sanduk Ruit, after Bahrain selected him as the winner of its top civilian award called Isa Award for Service and Humanity. The award carries a cash prize of $1 million, a certificate of merit and a gold medal. Some noted personalities congratulating him include: artiste Hari Bansha Acharya, former UN Under Secretary General Kul Chandra Gautam and Dharan Mayor Harka Sampang Rai. Dr Ruit is credited with devising a new method for treating cataracts, as well as developing a cost-effective new lens that is implanted inside the eyeball. His innovation has enabled him to perform free cataract surgeries without stitches in less than five minutes. As of now, he’s already treated more than 120,000 patients with avoidable blindness. The award will be presented at a ceremony to be held under the patronage of King Hamad Bin Eisa Al Khalifa at the Isa Cultural Centre in Manama in February, according to Bahrain news. Dr Ruit was one of the 145 global contenders for the award. Other awards In November, 2019, Dr Ruit thanked India for honouring him with the Padma Shri award. Around the same time, he appreciated Bhutan for deciding to confer the National Order of Merit of Bhutan on him. Born in Olangchung Gola, Taplejung in 1954, the Australian educated ophthalmologist is the founder of Tilganga Institute of Ophthalmology in Kathmandu. The institute does not only provide low-cost treatment but also manufactures high-quality intraocular lenses for surgery “at a fraction of the price of the previous cost”. That invention made cataract surgeries affordable to the world’s poorest people. Dr Ruit and his colleagues have used that technology to perform cataract surgery on tens of thousands of people across Asia and Africa. Also referred to as the “God of Sight'', Dr Ruit was earlier awarded the Ramon Magsaysay Award for Peace and Understanding. The award is considered to be the Asian equivalent of the Nobel Prize. Congratulations Reacting to the news of Bahrain honour on Dr Ruit, renowned artiste Hari Bansha Acharya wrote on Facebook: “I keep wondering. Nepal’s reputation would grow further if we could elect Dr Sanduk Ruit as our new president. He has remained instrumental in restoring eye-sights of so many people.” Dharan Mayor Harka Sampang Rai tweeted: “Now it’s time to build the nation and not just the political party. It would be perfect if we could elect Dr Ruit as our new president. He’s been conferred with the prestigious award. Can someone pass me his number?” Former UN diplomat Dr Kul Chandra Gautam wrote on Twitter: “Super proud of this great Nepali hero Dr @sanduk_ruit & his immense & exemplary contribution to eye care in Nepal & globally. Congratulations on many well-deserved awards he has won, including the latest $1 million USD Isa Award for Service to Humanity.”
