=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Sydenham Hospital - Wikipedia]
Around 1924 the hospital moved to a new 200-bed building at the intersection of West 125 Street and Lenox Avenue. In 1944 the staff doctors were all white despite serving a mostly African American community. [2]
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sydenham_Hospital

[The Sydenham Hospital Opens - African American Registry]
*Sydenham Hospital is celebrated on this date in 1892. This private hospital was founded in a Harlem brownstone and served African primarily American patients. Sydenham began as a healthcare facility in Harlem, located at 124 Street and Manhattan Avenue. Around 1924, the hospital moved to a new 200-bed building at the intersection of West 125 Street and Lenox […]
URL: https://aaregistry.org/story/sydenham-hospital-opens/

[Sydenham Hospital Protest audio collection - archives.nypl.org]
Sydenham Hospital was a healthcare facility in Harlem which operated between 1892 and 1980. It was the first fully desegregated hospital in the United States with six African American trustees and twenty African Americans on staff. It was New York City's first full-service hospital to hire African American doctors and nurses, serving mostly African American patients. Sydenham was located at ...
URL: https://archives.nypl.org/scl/186423

[The Occupation of Sydenham Hospital - Archives.NYC]
Mar 27, 2020 — NYPD_F_0987 Manhattan Avenue and West 124th Street; Detail Sydenham Hospital, September 17-18, 1980. NYC Municipal Archives.
URL: https://www.archives.nyc/blog/2020/3/27/the-occupation-of-sydenham-hospital

[We was or We were which is correct? - English Language Learners...]
We was is not standard English, it is used in some regional dialects: The verb 'to be' has two simple past forms in Standard English - I/he/she/it was and you/we/they were. Apart from the special case of you, the distinction is, therefore, between singular was and plural were In some regional dialects, however, this pattern is not observed. In some parts of the country, speakers use was ...
URL: https://ell.stackexchange.com/questions/185313/we-was-or-we-were-which-is-correct


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Sydenham Hospital - Wikipedia] ---
Sydenham Hospital was a healthcare facility in Harlem, Manhattan, New York, which operated between 1892 and 1980. It was located at 124th Street and Manhattan Avenue.


--- [The Sydenham Hospital Opens - African American Registry] ---
Sydenham Hospital *Sydenham Hospital is celebrated on this date in 1892. This private hospital was founded in a Harlem brownstone and served African primarily American patients. Sydenham began as a healthcare facility in Harlem, located at 124 Street and Manhattan Avenue. Around 1924, the hospital moved to a new 200-bed building at the intersection of West 125 Street and Lenox Avenue. In 1944, the staff doctors were all white despite serving a primarily Black community. Soon after, it was the first hospital to have a fully desegregated interracial policy, with six Black Trustees and twenty Blacks on staff. It was New York City's first full-service hospital to hire Black doctors and later became known for hiring Black doctors and nurses when other nearby hospitals would not. Because of its relatively small size, Sydenham continually faced more financial problems than most private hospitals, and on March 3, 1949, control of it was taken by New York City. It became part of the municipal hospital system. However, the city continued to allow Sydenham's private physicians to hospitalize their patients in a new practice for the municipal hospital system. In 1971, Florence Gaynor became the first African American woman to head a major teaching hospital, taking over as Executive Director of Sydenham Hospital during a financial crisis. She also developed a Family Care Center with a Sickle Cell Anemia clinic. Soon after Mayor Ed Koch took office in 1977, during severe economic troubles for New York City, he announced an additional 10% reduction in funding for municipal hospitals. Metropolitan Hospital (in East Harlem) and Sydenham were slated for closure. There was community support from both hospitals. In January 1979, the Committee for Interns and Residents staged a one-day walkout of doctors at municipal hospitals to protest the cuts. Hospital workers from District Council 37 of AFSCME often supported them on picket lines. A “Coalition to Save Sydenham” supported legal efforts to stop the closing, organized public rallies and lobbying of elected officials, and helped publicize research to demonstrate the need for the hospital. (In 1977, the federal government designated Harlem a “medically underserved area, with the Secretary of Health, Education and Welfare Joseph Califano calling it a “health disaster area.”) While a diminished Metropolitan Hospital was saved as an “Outpatient Demonstration:” project, the city insisted that Sydenham be closed. In the spring of 1980, as Sydenham was about to be shut down, angry demonstrators stormed the hospital. They initiated an occupation that lasted ten days under a so-called “People’s Administration.” Despite the added publicity this brought, in 1980, Sydenham’s doors were closed for good. Although unsuccessful, the demonstrations raised the profile of Sydenham among people who had never heard of the hospital. Nurse and Health Activist Ebun Adelona said the closure of Sydenham became a “symbol” for Black people throughout New York to revitalize communities, improve health, and exercise political power. In 1998, Sharon Lerner recalled that “The Sydenham blunder paved the way for today's more clandestine approach to hospital downsizing, in which the city reduces its contribution to the Health and Hospitals Corporation and the agency is thereby 'forced' to make cuts to the public hospitals.”


--- [Sydenham Hospital Protest audio collection - archives.nypl.org] ---
Scope and arrangement The Sydenham Hospital Protest audio collection consists of eleven audio recordings. They are arranged chronologically. Since the collection's original formats are audio cassettes, many of the items contain two or more parts, one for each side of the cassette. The titles are derived from the content of the recordings and labels on the original formats. When the spelling of participants' names is unclear, they appear in square brackets in the item description.


--- [The Occupation of Sydenham Hospital - Archives.NYC] ---
By 1975 New York City had run out of money. The City of New York faced a fiscal crisis that precipitated massive budget cuts to almost all public services. With the budget problems too big for the City to solve itself, the Emergency Financial Control Board was created to rein in spending. Run by New York State, the ECFB successfully slashed the City’s budget, defunding libraries, schools, welfare programs, public transit, hospitals and more. One of those cuts was Sydenham hospital, a Harlem based health center that historically served and employed African Americans. Sydenham Hospital was founded in 1892 as a private hospital corporation but by 1949 due to shaky finances it became a part of the municipal hospital system. This meant that Sydenham became both funded by and controlled by local taxpayers and voters- or so they believed. Edward I. Koch was elected Mayor in 1977 with the promise to revive the City. Soon after taking office he announced that Sydenham Hospital in Harlem and the Metropolitan Hospital in East Harlem were to be closed. That same year, Harlem was designated a health disaster area by President Jimmy Carter’s Secretary of Health, Education and Welfare, Joseph Califano. Harlem residents had been working with City government for decades to improve local healthcare outcomes and services to little avail. The Harlem Health Alliance was led by Marshall England, a long-time public health advocate with a focus on Manhattan’s poorer residents. He created a plan to improve Harlem’s healthcare system at the behest of Mayor John Lindsay, but the plan was never implemented. In the 1970s, Harlem residents worked with the Comprehensive Health Planning Agency, but still saw their healthcare quality decrease. The Koch administration announced plans for new ambulatory clinics in Harlem, but it later became clear that these new clinics were meant to replace the much larger Sydenham and Metropolitan Hospitals. Despite the dwindling availability and level of care, healthcare costs continued to rise for Harlem residents. The closure announcements immediately led to a backlash from Harlem residents. They formed groups like A Coalition to Save Sydenham that lobbied politicians, organized picket lines and tried to raise awareness of the implications of closing Sydenham. The Committee for Interns and Residents held a one-day walkout. Although the hospital eventually closed in 1980 after years of debate between City and State government, protests grew in the lead up to its closure, ultimately resulting in an occupation by neighborhood residents who feared the loss of a vital part of their community. During the occupation the NYPD’s surveillance unit, the Bureau of Special Services and Investigation (BOSSI), created a number of 16mm black and white films to document the events and those involved. Metropolitan Hospital in East Harlem was saved and still operates today but Sydenham could not be saved. In a final move, demonstrators forced their way into the building and began a 10- day occupation to halt the closure of the hospital. The desperation of this move becomes more understandable when one compares the healthcare statistics of Harlem residents to other New York City neighborhoods. In 1977, the infant mortality rate in Harlem was twice that of the borough of Manhattan. The overall death rate in Harlem was 54% higher than other Manhattan neighborhoods, like Kips-Bay and Yorkville. Rates of tuberculosis infections in Harlem residents were more than twice that of the entire City in 19. Despite this glaring inequality, the City and State governments planned to close not one, but two public hospitals in Harlem against the wishes of the local taxpayers. Although healthcare and poverty rates have improved in the City over the last 40 years, Harlem residents still suffer from higher infant mortality rates and premature deaths, less access to healthcare and far higher rates of asthma and other chronic conditions when compared to other parts of the City. In times of crisis, already underserved neighborhoods like Harlem get hit harder than others, further delaying the achievement of equitable healthcare outcomes for all New Yorkers. It is also in times of crisis that disparate communities come together in pursuit of a common goal. To those fortunate enough to have escaped the worst effects of the COVID-19 pandemic and its economic impact, please consider how you might be able to help those in dire need. Years after he was no longer Mayor, Ed Koch famously said that closing Sydenham was a mistake.


--- [We was or We were which is correct? - English Language Learners...] ---
# We was or We were which is correct?

I several times, particularly,while reading novels, encountered the sentence ' we was ....' .But as per my knowledge is concerned were is appropriate verb instaed of was. Please explain it. Thank you

Usage examples: 

From 
The Life and Times of Ray Hicks: Keeper of the Jack Tales: 


  We was hurryin' so as not to get caught in a blizzard storm. The northwest wind blowed over the mountain and was so strong ......The snow started a comin' down so fast, in short order we couldn't see where we was goin. ice was a freezin' on our faces. We turned to walk backwards, then forwards , ...


From Tom Sawyer, Detective
By Mark Twain:


  What we was after was a couple of noble big di'monds as big as hazel-nuts, which everybody was running to see. We was dressed up fine, and ...


