=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[SBC ends relationship with DC convention - Baptist Press]
19-20 meeting in Nashville, the ... was Calvary Baptist Church in Washington, which cooperates with the DCBC and voted in January 2017 to call a legally-married lesbian couple as co-pastors....
URL: https://www.baptistpress.com/resource-library/news/sbc-ends-relationship-with-dc-convention/

[SBC Gives DC Baptist Convention 90 Days to Sever Ties With Church Led ...]
Feb 25, 2018 · In January 2017, Calvary Baptist hired lesbian couple Maria Swearingen and Sally Sarratt to be the new co-pastors. Although Calvary officially severed its ties with the SBC in 2012, DCBC gives its churches the choice of affiliation.
URL: https://www.christianpost.com/news/sbc-dc-baptist-convention-90-days-sever-ties-church-lesbian-pastors-southern-baptist.html

[Southern Baptist Convention Overview | PDF]
LGBTQ inclusion.[11] In 2018, the District of Columbia Baptist Convention was excommunicated for this reason.[194]. Sexual abuse. On February 10, 2019, a ...
URL: https://www.scribd.com/document/689840758/Southern-Baptist-Convention

[SBC ENDS RELATIONSHIP WITH DC CONVENTION - Baptist & Reflector]
May 22, 2018 · At issue was Calvary Baptist Church in Washington, which cooperates with the DCBC and voted in January 2017 to call a legally-married lesbian couple as co-pastors.
URL: https://baptistandreflector.org/sbc-ends-relationship-with-dc-convention/

[Southern Baptist Convention - Wikipedia]
On June 10, 2025, at the annual meeting in Dallas, the convention voted overwhelmingly in favor of working to overturn the legal right to same-sex marriage. It was the first time the SBC had asked representatives of its member churches to do this.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Southern_Baptist_Convention


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [SBC ends relationship with DC convention - Baptist Press] ---
NASHVILLE (BP) — After nearly a year and a half of discussions concerning a Washington church with lesbian co-pastors, the Southern Baptist Convention has notified the District of Columbia Baptist Convention that “the formal relationship between the SBC and the DCBC has come to an end,” according to a statement by interim Executive Committee president D. August Boto. At its Feb. 19-20 meeting in Nashville, the EC adopted a recommendation granting the DCBC 90 days to “secure” the “removal of any churches from its fellowship that have demonstrated a faith or practice affirming, approving or endorsing homosexual behavior.” If such churches remained in friendly cooperation with the DCBC after May 20, the EC stated, the DCBC would lose its authorization “to receive and disburse Cooperative Program and other SBC contributions.” At issue was Calvary Baptist Church in Washington, which cooperates with the DCBC and voted in January 2017 to call a legally-married lesbian couple as co-pastors. Calvary voted in 2012 to cease cooperation with the SBC. Boto told Baptist Press he received a letter May 21 from DCBC executive director Robert Cochran “indicating that the DCBC has not taken action the Executive Committee hoped it would when it issued its Feb. 20 decision. In his letter, Cochran divulged that he anticipated an end to our relationship.” Boto added, “I issued a letter [May 21], to the DCBC on behalf of the EC, and copying it to all EC members. I will soon send another letter to each of eight churches we know of in DC that are supporting SBC work through financial gifts directed through the DCBC. The letters will inform each group that the formal relationship between the SBC and the DCBC has come to an end and that, beginning [May 21], the SBC no longer recognizes the District of Columbia Baptist Convention as a Baptist body authorized to receive and disburse Cooperative Program and other SBC contributions.” Cochran contacted Boto in early April inviting EC representatives to meet with him and another DCBC representative May 7 for what Cochran termed “negotiations” about the EC’s February decision, Boto said. Despite the EC’s offer to send representatives to Washington for such a meeting, the gathering did not materialize and Cochran offered to meet via conference call instead. “In my reply,” Boto said, “I indicated that the long window (almost one and one-half years) during which the DCBC had failed to address our concerns … gave me little hope that a conference call at this late date would be helpful if it did not include those with authority to exclude the errant church from the DCBC’s fellowship by May 20. “I encouraged him rather to work with his leaders to show [the DCBC’s] doctrinal kinship with the SBC by calling the church to repent or face removal from the DCBC fellowship, something we would find as an affirmation of the convention’s commitment to biblical truth.” At its February meeting, the EC “expressed deep regret over the need to take this action, but felt compelled to affirm biblical truth over organizational relationships,” Boto said. The EC also indicated its “willingness to consider resuming its relationship with the DCBC in the future” if Calvary repents of its actions or the DCBC removes the church from its fellowship.


--- [SBC Gives DC Baptist Convention 90 Days to Sever Ties With Church Led ...] ---
SBC Gives DC Baptist Convention 90 Days to Sever Ties With Church Led by Lesbian Pastors The District of Columbia Baptist Convention has been given 90 days to remove a church with lesbian co-pastors from fellowship or risk severing ties with the Southern Baptist Convention. SBC's official news service, Baptist Press, reports that the SBC Executive Committee approved a motion on Feb. 20 giving the DCBC until May 20 to end its affiliation with churches "that have demonstrated a faith or practice affirming, approving or endorsing homosexual behavior." The motion effectively gives DCBC the option to either sever its ties with the 155-year-old Calvary Baptist Church or help lead the church to "repentance." In January 2017, Calvary Baptist hired lesbian couple Maria Swearingen and Sally Sarratt to be the new co-pastors. Although Calvary officially severed its ties with the SBC in 2012, DCBC gives its churches the choice of affiliation. "If none of those scenarios materializes, the DCBC will lose immediately its authorization to receive and disburse Cooperative Program (CP) funds," Baptist Press states. DCBC also risks losing other SBC contributions. Robert Cochran, executive director of the D.C. convention, told media that DCBC "has not affirmed, approved or endorsed homosexual behavior in any way at any time" and "respects the official statements" on homosexuality by both American and Southern Baptists." The SBC amended its constitution in the early 1990s to exclude churches that affirm homosexuality, according to Baptist News Global. "Calvary's actions do not reflect on the D.C. Baptist Convention or any other convention in any way," Cochran told Baptist Press in a statement. Cochran also said he delivered a statement to the SBC Executive Committee Bylaws Workgroup and Administrative Committee explaining that the apostle John "never cut ties to any of these seven congregations [in Revelation 2 and 3], despite their shortcomings." Baptist Press reports that just seven out of the 149 churches in the DCBC give to SBC causes. The motion to give DCBC 90 days "was a decision that there's no doubt we needed to make," SBC Executive Committee chairman Stephen Rummage told Baptist Press. Rummage added, however, that the decision was "made with great sadness." According to Baptist News Global, the original motion called for the immediate severing of ties with DCBC. However, the executive committee was asked instead to give the DCBC 90 days by Joseph Lyles, pastor of DCBC-cooperating Fort Foote Baptist Church in Fort Washington, Md. Lyles said that the executive committee "was kind and considerate to try to bring about redemptive restoration." "We're trying to extend the olive branch, and I think it was received," Lyles told Baptist Press. "So I was encouraged."


--- [Southern Baptist Convention Overview | PDF] ---
History of the Southern Baptist Convention The Southern Baptist Convention is the largest Protestant denomination in the United States. It was founded in 1845 when Southern Baptists split from Northern Baptists over the issue of slavery, which Southern Baptists supported. For much of its history, the Southern Baptist Convention supported racial segregation and opposed civil rights. In recent decades, membership has declined significantly as the denomination has faced controversies over sexual abuse scandals and LGBTQ inclusion. History of the Southern Baptist Convention


--- [SBC ENDS RELATIONSHIP WITH DC CONVENTION - Baptist & Reflector] ---
By David Roach Baptist Press NASHVILLE — After nearly a year and a half of discussions concerning a Washington church with lesbian co-pastors, the Southern Baptist Convention has notified the District of Columbia Baptist Convention that “the formal relationship between the SBC and the DCBC has come to an end,” according to a statement by interim Executive Committee president D. August Boto. At its Feb. 19-20 meeting in Nashville, the EC adopted a recommendation granting the DCBC 90 days to “secure” the “removal of any churches from its fellowship that have demonstrated a faith or practice affirming, approving or endorsing homosexual behavior.” If such churches remained in friendly cooperation with the DCBC after May 20, the EC stated, the DCBC would lose its authorization “to receive and disburse Cooperative Program and other SBC contributions.” At issue was Calvary Baptist Church in Washington, which cooperates with the DCBC and voted in January 2017 to call a legally-married lesbian couple as co-pastors. Calvary voted in 2012 to cease cooperation with the SBC. Boto told Baptist Press he received a letter May 21 from DCBC executive director Robert Cochran “indicating that the DCBC has not taken action the Executive Committee hoped it would when it issued its Feb. 20 decision. In his letter, Cochran divulged that he anticipated an end to our relationship.” Boto added, “I issued a letter [May 21], to the DCBC on behalf of the EC, and copying it to all EC members. I will soon send another letter to each of eight churches we know of in DC that are supporting SBC work through financial gifts directed through the DCBC. The letters will inform each group that the formal relationship between the SBC and the DCBC has come to an end and that, beginning [May 21], the SBC no longer recognizes the District of Columbia Baptist Convention as a Baptist body authorized to receive and disburse Cooperative Program and other SBC contributions.” Cochran contacted Boto in early April inviting EC representatives to meet with him and another DCBC representative May 7 for what Cochran termed “negotiations” about the EC’s February decision, Boto said. Despite the EC’s offer to send representatives to Washington for such a meeting, the gathering did not materialize and Cochran offered to meet via conference call instead. “In my reply,” Boto said, “I indicated that the long window (almost one and one-half years) during which the DCBC had failed to address our concerns … gave me little hope that a conference call at this late date would be helpful if it did not include those with authority to exclude the errant church from the DCBC’s fellowship by May 20. “I encouraged him rather to work with his leaders to show [the DCBC’s] doctrinal kinship with the SBC by calling the church to repent or face removal from the DCBC fellowship, something we would find as an affirmation of the convention’s commitment to biblical truth.” At its February meeting, the EC “expressed deep regret over the need to take this action, but felt compelled to affirm biblical truth over organizational relationships,” Boto said. The EC also indicated its “willingness to consider resuming its relationship with the DCBC in the future” if Calvary repents of its actions or the DCBC removes the church from its fellowship.


--- [Southern Baptist Convention - Wikipedia] ---
The Southern Baptist Convention (SBC), alternatively the Great Commission Baptists (GCB), is a Christian denomination based in the United States. It is the world's largest Baptist organization, the largest Protestant, and the second-largest Christian body in the United States. The SBC is a cooperation of fully autonomous, independent churches with commonly held essential beliefs that pool some resources for missions.
Churches affiliated with the denomination are evangelical in doctrine and practice, emphasizing the significance of the individual conversion experience. This conversion is then affirmed by the person being completely immersed in water for a believer's baptism. Baptism is believed to be separate from salvation and is a public and symbolic expression of faith, burial of previous life, and resurrection to new life; it is not a requirement for salvation. The denomination has a male pastorate, often citing 1 Timothy 2:12 as the reason it does not ordain women. All affiliated churches deny the legitimacy of same-sex marriage, saying that marriage can only be between a man and a woman, and also that all sexual relations should occur only within the confines of marriage. Other specific beliefs based on biblical interpretation vary by congregational polity, often to balance local church autonomy.
In 1845, the Southern Baptists separated from the Triennial Convention to uphold the institution of slavery, as American society divided over slavery preceding the American Civil War. In 1995, the denomination apologized for racial positions in its history, and at present, the Southern Baptist Convention is racially diverse, with one in four congregations having a nonwhite majority. Since the 1940s, it has spread across the United States, with tens of thousands of affiliated churches and 41 affiliated state conventions. Beginning in the late 1970s, a conservative movement began to take control of the organization, and it succeeded in taking control of the SBC leadership by the 1990s. 
Self-reported membership peaked in 2006 at roughly 16 million. Membership has contracted by an estimated 13.6% since that year, with 2020 marking the 14th year of continuous decline. Mean organization-wide weekly attendance dropped about 27% between 2006 and 2020. The Convention reported increased participation and a slowing of the rate of overall membership decline in 2024, with 12,722,266 members reported.


