=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Government Medical College, Srinagar - Wikipedia]
The then Prime Minister of India, Jawaharlal Nehru, laid the foundation stone of the college on 13 June 1957. The college was established under the name of Jammu and Kashmir Medical College in 1959, and its first batch of students was admitted the same year.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Government_Medical_College,_Srinagar

[Government Medical College, Srinagar - College Kaka]
Dec 27, 2023 · The then Prime Minister of India, Jawaharlal Nehru, laid the foundation stone of the college on 13 June 1957. The college was established under the name of Jammu and Kashmir Medical College in 1959, and its first batch of students was admitted the same year.
URL: https://collegekaka.com/government-medical-college-srinagar/

[Jawaharlal Nehru - Wikipedia]
Jawaharlal Nehru as a child with his mother Swarup Rani and father Motilal Nehru, 1894.jpg Nehru described his childhood as "sheltered and uneventful". He grew up in an atmosphere of privilege, which included life in the mansion Anand Bhavan in Allahabad. He was educated at home by private governesses and tutors. [17] One of these was an Irishman, Ferdinand T. Brooks, who was interested in ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jawaharlal_Nehru

[Jawaharlal Nehru, India's First Prime Minister - ThoughtCo]
Mar 8, 2017 · Biography of Jawaharlal Nehru, Indian independence leader, India's first prime minister, and leader of the international non-aligned movement.
URL: https://www.thoughtco.com/jawaharlal-nehru-195492

[The GMC I Know | Kashmir Life - Latest News & Breaking News from Kashmir]
Colonel GVS Murthy took charge as the first Principal of GMC Srinagar and the college was formally inaugurated on August 25, 1961, by the then Jammu and Kashmir Prime Minister Bakshi Ghulam Mohammad. GMC Srinagar is affiliated with the University of Kashmir and recognized by the Medical Council of India (now, the National Medical Commission).
URL: https://kashmirlife.net/the-gmc-i-know-vol-14-issue-16-296653/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Government Medical College, Srinagar - Wikipedia] ---
The Government Medical College, Srinagar (also known as GMC Srinagar) is a government medical college and hospital located in Srinagar, Jammu and Kashmir, India. It was established in 1959. It is the oldest medical college in Kashmir. The college and hospital are affiliated with the University of Kashmir and recognised by the Medical Council of India (currently National Medical Commission). The college is located in the Karan Nagar area of Srinagar, about 1.5 km (0.93 mi) from Lal Chowk. The girls' hostel is located within the campus but the boys' hostel is one km (0.62 mi) away. It has well-equipped labs. The selection to the college is done on the basis of merit through National Eligibility and Entrance Test.




--- [Government Medical College, Srinagar - College Kaka] ---
Introduction Government Medical College (GMC), Srinagar, one of the oldest medical colleges in North India and first one in the Jammu & Kashmir (J & K) State is currently in its 54 th year of birth. It has a leading role in contributing major portion of healthcare manpower to the J & K State. It has been contributing towards producing many renowned and leading clinicians not just in Sub-Continent, but all over the world since its inception. GMC was established in year 1959 with few room dispensary at banks of Jhelum near current LD hospital .GMC has emerged as premier medical college of the country. Apart from nurturing Medical professional over after few decades.GMC is providing a healing touch to majority of population of state. It was in 1959 that Col. G V S Murthy took charge as the first Principal of GMC. Anatomy and physiology were the first departments started in the dispensary located near current LD hospital. Two years later, college was shifted to the present day location at Karan Nagar. On 25 th of august 1961 GMC was formally inaugurated by then Prime Ministry of the State of Jammu and Kashmir Mr. Bakshi Ghulam Mohammad. Soon after inauguration a batch of 50 undergraduated students where admitted in the college In 1966 PG Courses in Pre-Clinical subjects where started it was in 1968 Post graduation course in clinical subjects got under way in GMC. With time govt. Medical college started training of Para-Medical staff like Radio-graphers, Lab-Technicians Lab-Attendants , Pharmacist , Nurses and sanitary Inspectors. In 1970`s and 1980`s are considered to be the golden period in the history of Govt. medical college. At this time GMC Srinagar had students not only from various stages of India but from foreign countries as well. SMHS Hospital was now a major teaching institute imparting undergraduate and post graduate Medical Training in all allied specialties of Medicine, Surgery, and Gynecology. At this point Medical services became more specialized and differentiated. It was time for expansion. One of the major achievements of this expansion was separate 100 Bed Maternity Hospital at Lal Mandi. With increasing population a hundred Bed Maternity Hospital was unable to cater to the rush of the patients. On the orders of Sheikh Mohammad Abdullah The hospital was further expanded to the present day 500 Bed Lal-Ded Maternity Hospital. A separate Children Hospital was commissioned arrest by fruit Mandi. Likewise Bone & Joint Hospital was also established for treatment of Orthopedic alignment. However the SMHS became the main focus a building started coming up in its vicinity. It was the period when GMC used to be a top 10 Medical Colleges in country. Currently there are 07 associated hospital of GMC SMHS. G.B Pant, Children Hospital, Lal Ded Maternity Hospital, Psychiatric Diseases Hospital, Chest Diseases Hospital Barzulla and Chitranjan Mobile Hospital. These hospitals have the total bed strength of 2,150. On an average more than 100 patients stay in these hospital as in-patients including the floor patients. About 5-7 thousand people through the O.P departments daily for medical relief. The hospitals are adequately equipped with nine surgical theatres and delivery rooms. There are on the whole 22 departments functioning. Although the departments are adequately equipped there remains much to be done to upgrade them to the changing trends in Medical care. The bed strength at SMHS hospital was 750 in 1959 and over the years it has been increased to the present strength of 1038. About 2000-3000 people from the O.P department daily found Medical relief. Besides these hospitals it also has an Ancillary Medical Training School where diploma courses for B.Sc Nursing is taught. The faculty of the Govt. Medical College, teaches in 22 departments of the College and runs 07 hospitals in addition to Chittranjan Mobile Hospital Lectures, Practicals, demonstrations and clinics are well planned and conducted round the year. Students in the clinical terms derive experience from the wards of the affiliated college. The college has a well stocked library with over 18000 books. It subscribes to more than 270 international and national journal and has over 14000 bound journals. The Library has SLIM software computerised information management system which allows immediate tracing and retrieval of any publication in library Over 4000 doctors have graduated from GMC till now.Around a 1000 students have post-graduated from this prestigeous institution. Doctors, Surgeons, and Medical Technologists produced by the GMC have earned world-wide recognition and renown not only for their excellence but also for their commitment and service. The alumni of GMC has made it famous all over the world. Though these luminaries have made the past glorious. It s destiny is in hands of those who certainly have made the past glorious. Its description is in hands of these who certainly have the ability and zeal to keep the torch burning. Various new projects are being executed and many are being executed and many are in the pipeline. History In the 1950s, the government of Jammu and Kashmir realized the need for a medical college in the state. The then Prime Minister of India, Jawaharlal Nehru, laid the foundation stone of the college on 13 June 1957. The college was established under the name of Jammu and Kashmir Medical College in 1959, and its first batch of students was admitted the same year. The college was initially located at the Shri Maharaja Hari Singh Hospital in the city of Srinagar. In 1962, the college was shifted to its present location at Karan Nagar in Srinagar, where it covers an area of around 100 acres. The college was renamed as Government Medical College Srinagar in 1970. In the same year, the college was affiliated with the University of Kashmir. In 1982, the first batch of postgraduate students was admitted to the college. In 1998, the college was granted recognition by the Medical Council of India (MCI) for undergraduate and postgraduate medical courses. Campus The Government Medical College (GMC) Srinagar is located in the city of Srinagar in the Indian state of Jammu and Kashmir. The college covers an area of around 100 acres and is situated in the Karan Nagar area of the city. The campus of the GMC Srinagar is well-equipped with modern facilities and amenities to provide a conducive learning environment for the students. Academic Blocks: The college has several academic blocks that house classrooms, laboratories, and libraries. The classrooms are equipped with modern audio-visual aids, and the laboratories are equipped with advanced equipment and facilities to facilitate research and learning. Hostels: The college has separate hostels for boys and girls, with a total capacity of around 600 students. The hostels are well-furnished and provide all basic amenities such as electricity, water supply, and security. The hostels also have a common room, dining hall, and recreation room for the students. Auditorium: The college has a state-of-the-art auditorium that can accommodate around 500 people. The auditorium is equipped with modern audio-visual aids and is used for various academic and cultural events. Sports Facilities: The college has a playground and facilities for outdoor sports such as basketball, while as cricket and football ground in the boys hostel campus. Associated hospitals Currently there are eight associated hospitals of Government Medical College, Srinagar: - SMHS (Sri Maharaja Hari Singh Hospital), also Known as Sadar Haspataal or Headwun - G.B Pant, Children Hospital, Sonwar Srinagar (Bache Haspataal) - Lal Ded Maternity Hospital, Hazuri Bag Srinagar (LD Haspataal) - Psychiatric Diseases Hospital, Srinagar (Mental Haspataal) - Chest Diseases Hospital Dalgate, Srinagar (Drokjan Haspataal) - Bone and Joint Hospital Barzulla, Srinagar - Chitranjan Mobile Hospital - Superspeciality Hospital, Shireen Bagh Departments General Details | Name of College: | Govt. Medical College, Srinagar | | Complete Mailing Address: | Administrative Block Government Medical College Karan Nagar Srinagar | | State | Jammu And Kashmir | | Pin Code: | 190010 | | Name of Affiliating University with Date: | University of Kashmir Hazratbal Srinagar | | Amount to be Paid at the time of Admission (including Hostel fees) (INR): | Admission 34215 Hostel 30000 | | Website Address of College : | www.gmcs.edu.in | | Name of Dean/ Principal/ Director: | Prof Dr Masood Tanvir | | Designation: | Dean | | Tele No. i) Office: | 0194-2504114 | | Tele No. ii) Residence: | 0194-2504119 | | Mobile No.: | 9419000746 | | Name of Secretary (Medical Education/ Health): | Shri Bhupinder Kumar IAS | | Office Address: | Civil Secretariat Srinagar Jammu | | Tele No.: | 0194-2506276 | | E-mail Address: | dircoord.newgmcs[at]gmail.com | | Name of Nodal Officer: | Mr Faisal Fayaz | | Office Address: | Administrative Block Government Medical College Karan Nagar Srinagar | | Tele No.: | 0194-2504114 | | E-mail Address: | academicsection[at]gmcs.ac.in | | Designation | Reporting Official | | Mobile No.: | 7006320739 | Location and Accessibility By Bus The nearest Bus stand about 3.9 K/M Click here it access live location By Train The nearest Railway Station about 400 M Click here it access live location By Air The nearest airport about 10.7 K/M


--- [Jawaharlal Nehru - Wikipedia] ---
Jawaharlal Nehru (14 November 1889 – 27 May 1964) was an Indian anti-colonial nationalist, secular humanist, social democrat, and statesman who was a central figure in India during the middle of the 20th century. Nehru was a principal leader of the Indian nationalist movement in the 1930s and 1940s. Upon India's independence in 1947, he served as the country's first prime minister for 16 years. Nehru promoted parliamentary democracy, secularism, and science and technology during the 1950s, powerfully influencing India's arc as a modern nation. In international affairs, he steered India clear of the two blocs of the Cold War.  A well-regarded author, he wrote books such as Letters from a Father to His Daughter (1929), An Autobiography (1936) and The Discovery of India (1946), that have been read around the world.
The son of Motilal Nehru, a prominent lawyer and Indian nationalist, Jawaharlal Nehru was educated in England—at Harrow School and Trinity College, Cambridge, and trained in the law at the Inner Temple. He became a barrister, returned to India, enrolled at the Allahabad High Court and gradually became interested in national politics, which eventually became a full-time occupation. He joined the Indian National Congress, rose to become the leader of a progressive faction during the 1920s, and eventually of the Congress, receiving the support of Mahatma Gandhi, who was to designate Nehru as his political heir. As Congress president in 1929, Nehru called for complete independence from the British Raj.
Nehru promoted the idea of the secular nation-state in the 1937 provincial elections, allowing the Congress to sweep the elections and form governments in several provinces.  In September 1939, the Congress ministries resigned to protest Viceroy Lord Linlithgow's decision to join the war without consulting them. After the All India Congress Committee's Quit India Resolution of 8 August 1942, senior Congress leaders were imprisoned, and for a time, the organisation was suppressed. Nehru, who had reluctantly heeded Gandhi's call for immediate independence, and had desired instead to support the Allied war effort during World War II, came out of a lengthy prison term to a much altered political landscape. Under Muhammad Ali Jinnah, the Muslim League had come to dominate Muslim politics in the interim. In the 1946 provincial elections, Congress won the elections, but the League won all the seats reserved for Muslims, which the British interpreted as a clear mandate for Pakistan in some form. Nehru became the interim prime minister of India in September 1946 and the League joined his government with some hesitancy in October 1946.
Upon India's independence on 15 August 1947, Nehru gave a critically acclaimed speech, "Tryst with Destiny"; he was sworn in as the Dominion of India's prime minister and raised the Indian flag at the Red Fort in Delhi. On 26 January 1950, when India became a republic within the Commonwealth of Nations, Nehru became the Republic of India's first prime minister. He embarked on an ambitious economic, social, and political reform programme. Nehru promoted a pluralistic multi-party democracy. In foreign affairs, he led the establishment of the Non-Aligned Movement, a group of nations that did not seek membership in the two main ideological blocs of the Cold War. Under Nehru's leadership, the Congress dominated national and state-level politics and won elections in 1951, 1957 and 1962. He died in office from a heart attack in 1964. His birthday is celebrated as Children's Day in India.




--- [Jawaharlal Nehru, India's First Prime Minister - ThoughtCo] ---
Humanities › History & Culture › Asian History › Figures & Events › Jawaharlal Nehru, India's First Prime Minister Print Jawaharlal Nehru, India's first prime minister, c. 1960. Hulton Archive / Getty Images History & Culture Asian History Figures & Events Basics Southeast Asia East Asia South Asia Middle East Central Asia Asian Wars and Battles American History African American History African History Ancient History and Culture European History Genealogy Inventions Latin American History Medieval & Renaissance History Military History The 20th Century Women's History View More By Kallie Szczepanski Kallie Szczepanski History Expert Ph.D., History, Boston University J.D., University of Washington School of Law B.A., History, Western Washington University Dr. Kallie Szczepanski is a history teacher specializing in Asian history and culture. She has taught at the high school and university levels in the U.S. and South Korea. Learn about our Editorial Process Updated on March 08, 2017 Close Early Life On November 14, 1889, a wealthy Kashmiri Pandit lawyer named Motilal Nehru and his wife Swaruprani Thussu welcomed their first baby, a boy they named Jawaharlal. The family lived in Allahabad, at that time in the Northwest Provinces of British India (now Uttar Pradesh). Little Nehru was soon joined by two sisters, both of whom also had illustrious careers. Jawaharlal Nehru was educated at home, first by governesses and then by private tutors. He particularly excelled at science, while taking very little interest in religion. Nehru became an Indian nationalist quite early in life, and was thrilled by Japan's victory over Russia in the Russo-Japanese War (1905). That event prompted him to dream "of Indian freedom and Asiatic freedom from the thraldom of Europe." Education At the age of 16, Nehru went to England to study at the prestigious Harrow School (Winston Churchill's alma mater). Two years later, in 1907, he entered Trinity College, Cambridge, where in 1910 he took an honors degree in natural sciences - botany, chemistry and geology. The young Indian nationalist also dabbled in history, literature and politics, as well as Keynesian economics, during his university days. In October of 1910, Nehru joined the Inner Temple in London to study law, at the insistence of his father. Jawaharlal Nehru was admitted to the bar in 1912; he was determined to take the Indian Civil Service exam and use his education to fight against discriminatory British colonial laws and policies. By the time he returned to India, he had also been exposed to socialist ideas, which were popular amongst the intellectual class in Britain at the time. Socialism would become one of the foundation stones of modern India under Nehru. Politics and the Independence Struggle Jawaharlal Nehru returned to India in August of 1912, where he began a half-hearted practice of law in the Allahabad High Court. Young Nehru disliked the legal profession, finding it stultifying and "insipid." He was much more inspired by the 1912 annual session of the Indian National Congress (INC); however, the INC dismayed him with its elitism. Nehru joined a 1913 campaign led by Mohandas Gandhi, in the start of a decades-long collaboration. Over the next few years, he moved more and more into politics, and away from law. During the First World War (1914-18), most upper-class Indians supported the Allied cause even as they enjoyed the spectacle of Britain humbled. Nehru himself was conflicted, but came down reluctantly on the side of the Allies, more in support of France than of Britain. More than 1 million Indian and Nepalese soldiers fought overseas for the Allies in World War I, and about 62,000 died. In return for this show of loyal support, many Indian nationalists expected concessions from Britain once the war was over, but they were to be bitterly disappointed. Call for Home Rule Even during the war, as early as 1915, Jawaharlal Nehru began to call for Home Rule for India. This meant that India would be a self-governing Dominion, yet still considered a part of the United Kingdom, much like Canada or Australia. Nehru joined the All India Home Rule League, founded by family friend Annie Besant, a British liberal and advocate for Irish and Indian self-rule. The 70-year-old Besant was such a powerful force that the British government arrested and jailed her in 1917, prompting huge protests. In the end, the Home Rule movement was unsuccessful, and it was later subsumed in Gandhi's Satyagraha Movement, which advocated complete independence for India. Meanwhile, in 1916, Nehru married Kamala Kaul. The couple had a daughter in 1917, who would later go on to be Prime Minister of India herself under her married name, Indira Gandhi. A son, born in 1924, died after just two days. Declaration of Independence The Indian nationalist movement leaders, including Jawaharlal Nehru, hardened their stance against British rule in wake of the horrific Amritsar Massacre in 1919. Nehru was jailed for the first time in 1921 for his advocacy of the non-cooperation movement. Throughout the 1920s and 1930s, Nehru and Gandhi collaborated ever more closely in the Indian National Congress, each going to prison more than once for civil disobedience actions. In 1927, Nehru issued a call for complete independence for India. Gandhi opposed this action as premature, so the Indian National Congress refused to endorse it. As a compromise, in 1928 Gandhi and Nehru issued a resolution calling for home rule by 1930, instead, with a pledge to fight for independence if Britain missed that deadline. The British government rejected this demand in 1929, so on New Year's Eve, at the stroke of midnight, Nehru declared India's independence and raised the Indian flag. The audience there that night pledged to refuse to pay taxes to the British, and to engage in other acts of mass civil disobedience. Gandhi's first planned act of non-violent resistance was a long walk down to the sea to make salt, known as the Salt March or Salt Satyagraha of March 1930. Nehru and other Congress leaders were skeptical of this idea, but it struck a chord with the ordinary people of India and proved a huge success. Nehru himself evaporated some sea water to make salt in April of 1930, so the British arrested and jailed him again for six months. Nehru's Vision for India During the early 1930s, Nehru emerged as the political leader of the Indian National Congress, while Gandhi moved into a more spiritual role. Nehru drafted a set of core principles for India between 1929 and 1931, called the "Fundamental Rights and Economic Policy," which was adopted by the All India Congress Committee. Among the rights enumerated were freedom of expression, freedom of religion, protection of regional cultures and languages, abolition of untouchable status, socialism, and the right to vote. As a result, Nehru is often called the "Architect of Modern India." He fought hardest for the inclusion of socialism, which many other Congress members opposed. During the later 1930s and early 1940s, Nehru also had almost sole responsibility for drafting the foreign policy of a future Indian nation-state. World War II and the Quit India Movement When the Second World War broke out in Europe in 1939, the British declared war against the Axis on behalf of India, without consulting India's elected officials. Nehru, after consulting with the Congress, informed the British that India was prepared to support democracy over Fascism, but only if certain conditions were met. The most important was that Britain must pledge that it would grant complete independence to India as soon as the war was over. The British Viceroy, Lord Linlithgow, laughed at Nehru's demands. Linlithgow turned instead to the leader of the Muslim League, Muhammad ali Jinnah, who promised military support of Britain from India's Muslim population in return for a separate state, to be called Pakistan. The mostly-Hindu Indian National Congress under Nehru and Gandhi announced a policy of non-cooperation with Britain's war effort in response. When Japan pushed into Southeast Asia, and early in 1942 took control of most of Burma (Myanmar), which was on British India's eastern doorstep, the desperate British government approached the INC and Muslim League leadership once again for aid. Churchill sent Sir Stafford Cripps to negotiate with Nehru, Gandhi and Jinnah. Cripps could not convince the pro-peace Gandhi to support the war effort for any consideration short of full and prompt independence; Nehru was more willing to compromise, so he and his mentor had a temporary falling-out over the issue. In August of 1942, Gandhi issued his famous call for Britain to "Quit India." Nehru was reluctant to pressure Britain at the time since World War II was not going well for the British, but the INC passed Gandhi's proposal. In reaction, the British government arrested and imprisoned the entire INC working committee, including both Nehru and Gandhi. Nehru would remain in prison for almost three years, until June 15, 1945. Partition and Prime Ministership The British released Nehru from prison after the war was over in Europe, and he immediately began to play a key role in negotiations over the future of India. Initially, he vigorously opposed plans to divide the country along sectarian lines into a predominantly-Hindu India and a predominantly-Muslim Pakistan, but when bloody fighting broke out between members of the two religions, he reluctantly agreed to the split. After the Partition of India, Pakistan became an independent nation led by Jinnah on August 14, 1947, and India became independent the following day under Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru. Nehru embraced socialism, and was a leader of the international non-aligned movement during the Cold War, along with Nasser of Egypt and Tito of Yugoslavia. As Prime Minister, Nehru instituted wide-spread economic and social reforms that helped India reorganized itself as a unified, modernizing state. He was influential in international politics as well, but could never solve the problem of Kashmir and other Himalayan territorial disputes with Pakistan and with China. Sino-Indian War of 1962 In 1959, Prime Minister Nehru granted asylum to the Dalai Lama and other Tibetan refugees from China's 1959 Invasion of Tibet. This sparked tensions between the two Asian superpowers, which already had unsettled claims to the Aksai Chin and Arunachal Pradesh areas in the Himalaya Mountain range. Nehru responded with his Forward Policy, placing military outposts along the disputed border with China, beginning in 1959. On October 20, 1962, China launched a simultaneous attack at two points 1000 kilometers apart along the disputed border with India. Nehru was caught off guard, and India suffered a series of military defeats. By November 21, China felt that it had made its point, and unilaterally ceased fire. It withdrew from its forward positions, leaving the division of land the same as before the war, except that India had been driven from its forward positions across the Line of Control. India's force of 10,000 to 12,000 troops suffered heavy losses in the Sino-Indian War, with almost 1,400 killed, 1,700 missing, and nearly 4,000 captured by the Peoples Liberation Army of China. China lost 722 killed and about 1,700 wounded. The unexpected war and humiliating defeat profoundly depressed Prime Minister Nehru, and many historians claim that the shock may have hastened his death. Nehru's Death Nehru's party was reelected to the majority in 1962, but with smaller percentages of the vote than before. His health began to fail, and he spent a number of months in Kashmir during 1963 and 1964, trying to recuperate. Nehru returned to Delhi in May of 1964, where he suffered a stroke and then a heart attack on the morning of May 27. He died that afternoon. The Pandit's Legacy Many observers expected Parliament member Indira Gandhi to succeed her father, even though he had voiced opposition to her serving as Prime Minister for fear of "dynastism." Indira turned down the post at that time, however, and Lal Bahadur Shastri took over as the second prime minister of India. Indira would later become the third prime minister, and her son Rajiv was the sixth to hold that title. Jawaharlal Nehru left behind the world's largest democracy, a nation committed to neutrality in the Cold War, and a nation developing quickly in terms of education, technology and economics. Cite this Article Format mla apa chicago Your Citation Szczepanski, Kallie. "Jawaharlal Nehru, India's First Prime Minister." ThoughtCo, Apr. 5, 2023, thoughtco.com/jawaharlal-nehru-195492. Szczepanski, Kallie. (2023, April 5). Jawaharlal Nehru, India's First Prime Minister. Retrieved from https://www.thoughtco.com/jawaharlal-nehru-195492 Szczepanski, Kallie. "Jawaharlal Nehru, India's First Prime Minister." ThoughtCo. https://www.thoughtco.com/jawaharlal-nehru-195492 (accessed March 3, 2026). copy citation


--- [The GMC I Know | Kashmir Life - Latest News & Breaking News from Kashmir] ---
Leading gastroenterologist and researcher, Dr M Sultan Khuroo entered the Government Medical College, Srinagar, in its fourth batch in 1962. In this write-up, he details the college’s social and knowledge life and traces some of his classmates who served the society within and outside Kashmir and remained outstanding throughout their life Government Medical College (GMC) Srinagar has been a centre of great learning right from its inception. Established in 1959, it started from a make-shift facility at Lal Mandi on the bank of the Jhelum River. After two years, it was shifted to its present location at Karan Nagar within the premises of Shri Maharaja Hari Singh (SMHS) Hospital. Colonel GVS Murthy took charge as the first Principal of GMC Srinagar and the college was formally inaugurated on August 25, 1961, by the then Jammu and Kashmir Prime Minister Bakshi Ghulam Mohammad. GMC Srinagar is affiliated with the University of Kashmir and recognized by the Medical Council of India (now, the National Medical Commission). Besides, SMHS Srinagar, the GMC Srinagar was linked with eight other associated hospitals within the capital city. Over the years over 4000 students have graduated from GMC Srinagar and over 1000 doctors have completed their postgraduate degrees (MD/MS). The alumni of the college are serving throughout the globe and have done great human service. My Admission On June 1, 1962, the postman delivered a letter to my Sopore home and to my pleasant surprise, I was invited to join as a medical student at Maulana Azad Medical College, Delhi. It came within a few weeks after our FSC (Intermediate 12 class) results were announced and I stood high on the merit list from the University of Jammu and Kashmir, Srinagar. I had never applied for this coveted course and the Civil Secretariat, as I knew later, had processed the list from the result merit sheet issued by the University. I approached the Secretariat authorities to consider my name for GMC, Srinagar. They agreed to my request and, instead of me, Dr Sheikh Abdul Ahad (the legendary ENT surgeon), who was next to me on the merit list, was deputed to Maulana Azad Medical College, Delhi. My Batch Mates We were 62 in the class, which represented a true picture of global, national, religious, and social integration. The class had students from Africa, Malaysia, Pakistan, Mumbai, UP, and Himachal; there were Muslims, Hindus, Sikhs, Buddhists, and a Christian; representing a diversity of schools like the Convent Presentation, Tyndale Biscoe, Burn Hall, and students like me from various Government schools and from distant and undeveloped regions of the state. There were five girls in the class. Amongst them, Roshan Ara and Nalini Toshkhani were the stars of that era. Both choose to move to the West and are very well settled. The Burn Hall-Biscoe material was heavily represented by Nisar Bakhshi, Abdul Rauf Mir, Khalid Naqshbandi, Riyaz Dewani, and others; all were eagerly itching to cross the Atlantic and so they did and have done remarkably in their careers. There were students from downtown like Mohammad Yousuf Fazili, who was highly impressive and engaging. He joined the Buffalo (USA) crowd and has done all of us proud. Asif Qadri, a boy from Tangmarg, was another classmate. He moved early to the USA, and after superannuating from a successful cardiology practice, started the Muslim Community Centre (MCC), Maryland, which provides free medical care to the downtrodden not covered by medical coverage. This has been highly applauded by the community. One who impressed me most during those times was a tall skinny fellow from Chinkral Mohalla, who is now the legendary pathologist Prof Abdul Rashid Khan. I had a special bond with him. Almost every day, we walked together from the GMC gate to his home discussing Best & Taylor Physiology and Gray’s Anatomy. It always astonished me how he had mastered these books including the footnotes. Occasionally I took pleasure to relish Kanti and Kabab from the famous Ahdoo’s Hotel and for this took a tonga ride with Ghulam Nabi Lone, who later became the education minister of Jammu and Kashmir and unfortunately was assassinated. Lone sahib always volunteered to pay the tonga fare (Rs 2) and left for me to foot the hotel bill (Rs 16). GMC canteen was a place of great entertainment and joy. Daily, we all assembled around one table in the canteen where Fida Hussein (who later settled in South Africa and died a few years back in a road accident) was to sing ghazals in his melodious voice. Many would name him Mehdi Hassan or Mohammad Rafi of our class and I can vouch that his voice was as impressive as either one of these legends. Another legend in our class was Abdul Wahid, who recently retired as a professor in Medicine from SKIMS. His speciality was his critique of Kashmir politics and leadership, which would routinely appear in Khidmat and other Urdu periodicals on regular basis. For several years I lived in the GMC Hostel, Bemina. There, we were three friends – me, Ved Prakash Gupta (retired as Director Health Jammu and Kashmir), and Bashir Ahmad Khan, who, unfortunately, died from aggressive Polyarteritis nodosa soon graduating from GMC. Almost every afternoon, we would go for a walk on the Abi Guzar bund, and eat roti and tadka-dal, for one rupee, from a vegetarian dhaba in Kokar Bazaar as a single evening meal for the day. At 9 PM, we would drive our three bicycles from Amirakadal to Karan Nagar, to Tattoo-ground, and to Bemina Hostel. My Teachers After my admission to the GMC Srinagar, my first encounter was in the Anatomy Dissection Hall at Lal Mandi. The Lal Mandi facility had an excellent delightful ambience and get-up. The first view of Prof ML Kaul, our anatomy demonstrator, was 6ft-8inch towering personality and would get all our attention the moment he would shout “Come dangerously close to me” to eight of us (six boys and two girls). He is no more but his commanding voice still echoes in my ears. That is how all of us joined our heads together with his, to watch the most intriguing human structure on and around the dissection table. Next, it was a treat to watch a wise fatherly figure, Prof KK Ayer, the head of the anatomy department, whose manners in imparting knowledge were masterly and ultimate. Once he spotted a girl student sobbing in the corner of the dissection hall. On inquiry, it was found that she scored zero in a quiz for identifying the humerus bone as the femur. In a quick follow-up, Ayer sahib asked the demonstrator to watch a villager walking on the street through the window. The pedestrian was carrying a gunny bag on his back. He asked the demonstrator what score he shall give him on the quiz to that person. He answered in zero. Ayer Sahab walked out silently with the remark that “my daughter”, the sobbing girl student, has been evaluated so. The demonstrator apologized for his error. Prof BS Kahali headed the department of physiology and taught the subject with great passion. His weekly quiz of ten MCQ (multiple choice questions) with ten marks is reminiscent of modern methodology for medical entrance examinations and evaluation so well propounded now in modern medicine. The Second Year We entered the second year of the MBBS and relished the pathology lectures from Prof Goyal who taught the subject by symbolizing human pathology to varied events in nature. For this, he had made a compendium, which he always kept to his chest and brought to the classroom to narrate these events. One day some mischief-mongers of our batch (there were quite a few) coerced me to ask Prof Goyal to lend his great compendium for a short time so that we could broaden our knowledge. He hesitantly surrendered it for just one night, probably the first time in his career, and that night we all relished it from A to Z with great fun. Prof Ahluwalia, who headed the Social and Preventive Medicine department was an exceptionally great character and his environmentalist abilities should today win him an international award from IPCC (International Panel on Climate Change). Those days, Medical College Garden and SPM Museum were a treat to visit. These were so beautifully managed that the two pieces of infrastructure got huge attention in national medical circles. The Head of Pharmacology was Prof Gujral, who later succeeded Col Murthy as the Principal. Our clinical postings in SMHS Hospital wards and outpatient departments were supervised by Prof Col S. Kaul (Medicine), Prof Permanick (Surgery), and Prof Khanna (OBG). Because of this and with the untiring efforts of these medical giants, we learned the most difficult art of history taking, palpating the magic box of the human body, and listening to the demanding tender human structure. After these legendary professors superannuated, several local senior physicians took over the reign of the institution and moved it up the ranking on medical, social, political, and academic fronts. As it would happen, several generations of faculty have been produced over the decades and GMC has maintained a high level of academic standards because of these sons of the soil. A Tribute Establishing an institution of the scale and size of GMC in Kashmir has been no ordinary deal. A group of committed individuals had burnt their midnight oil to nurture this budding tree in the early years of its history. Those included invited retired legendary professors from many medical colleges in India and several young physicians from within the Jammu and Kashmir State. I wish to pay special tribute to my teachers and find it a part of my duty and prayer. Most of the GMC faculty were full-time medical teachers and had brought this profession to recognition in India. They took pains, showed tremendous patience, and made intense efforts to impart the knowledge of medicine to us. These teachers went to the ultimate details to teach us ethics, respect for the human being, patience, self-respect, and above all how to be God-fearing. They did it not by talking to us about these virtues but by practising these virtues. They practised morality and thus spoke of it and wanted us to follow it. They respected every patient for his values and taught us to practice this. They felt inner happiness to see their students doing well in quizzes and examinations and finally in life. For those who stood at the backbench and struggled, they were there to extend help, support, and advice. Apart from learning medicine through dictatorial lectures, and weekly quizzes, the GMC in those days offered education, including medical, religious, social, and political on an intensive basis. The institution was frequently visited by national and international scholars and educationists and the system would encourage and support this process. During our student days, we have listened to Noble laureates, great religious scholars, legendary political figures, Yoga giants, and palmists of international fame. The system absorbed views of all shapes and kinds, and this created a highly conducive scientific atmosphere. I always wondered about the abilities of the conceiver who brought these legendary teachers from all parts of the country together and invite, or at times, force us to join the medical studies and create an atmosphere that was revolutionary and full of creativity. Over the years, this medical school has produced thousands of medical graduates who have served our state, other states of India, and the rest of the world. Today we can only thank those who conceived, built, supported, and maintained this great seat of learning. The Unsung Hero I take this occasion to pay a special tribute to one unsung hero who held the notion that all problems of Kashmir (may be political, social, economic, and healthcare-related) are related to worms (Ascaris lumbricoides; known in Kashmir vernacular as Aam) in their bellies and there is only one solution to this complex human problem – Ek Thou Antepar (administer one dose of anthelmintic Antepar). I distinctly remember that morning of 1967 when late Dr Shanker Raina (then an Assistant Prof of Medicine in Medical Unit II) was conducting ward round in the side room, beside the clinical laboratory of ward 3, SMHS Hospital Srinagar. A young man was lying deeply unconscious and had Cheyne-Stokes breathing. A lumbar puncture revealed frank blood (Massive subarachnoid haemorrhage). Dr Raina, a great character in himself, danced around and gave some instructions, and told the patient’s relative that he shall be well soon. While we were on that, Prof SR Verma, the senior respected Bengali physician and a distinguished professor of medicine entered. He looked at the patient, elicited neck stiffness, and ordered Ms Fatima, a star nurse of ward 3, for Ek Thou Antepar and told his attendant in Bengali-Hindi slang that his brother had a roundworm in his brain and he shall be all right very soon. Curious, we followed Prof Verma to main ward 3. Within a few minutes, the Professor suddenly felt that his orders of Antepar might not have been implemented and the life of this patient was in great jeopardy due to a lack of Antepar levels in his blood and brain. He quickly rushed to the side room and was shocked to note that Antepar had not been administered yet, so, he himself administered the correct dose of Antepar through the nasogastric tube in place and apologizes to his relative for the nurse’s folly, which he has to correct himself. Within 10 minutes of all this drama, we heard screams coming out of this room announcing the eternal journey (death) of the patient. I soon discovered that Prof Verma firmly believed that all diseases of Kashmiris, from cold to cancer, are caused by roundworms in their bellies and would order Ek Thou Antepar the next moment he saw a Kashmiri with any illness. The Internship After passing the final MBBS examination, the GMC issued a comprehensive one-year rotatory internship schedule. We were supposed to rotate through most of the clinical specialities each lasting for a few weeks. It was a good professional learning experience as we were exposed for the first time to meaningful practical patient care activities and emergency medicine. We had the opportunity to oversee the working pattern of all specialities and choose one for our career development. Also, for the first time, we learned many small interventional procedures under supervision which included venepuncture and drawing blood, starting an IV line for fluid replacement, urinary catheterization, stitching a wound, lumbar puncture, pleural and ascetic fluid tap and many other basics. Kalaroos Visit There was an outreach posting during my internship in Chitranjan Mobile Hospital, Kalaroos. Kalaroos (Kala means caves; roos means Russia) is a remote village in Kupwara, surrounded by mountains. The famous Kalaroos caves in the village are most mysterious and believed to lead to tunnels that end in Russia. The Mobile Hospital was a tented camp and covered by all the medical and surgical specialities with basic investigative laboratory and x-rays and theatre facilities. A strong component of the Social and Preventive Medicine (SPM) Department did healthcare educational programmes including vaccination drives for children and pregnant women. The camp was connected with SMHS hospital through an ambulance service. Our stay at Kalaroos for six weeks was a great learning experience and an enjoyable one. It also gave us first-hand experience to explore nature at its best. A promise I completed MBBS and was awarded Gold Medal for ‘Best Outgoing Student’ for the session (June 1962- August 1968), and seven Silver Medals for obtaining the first position in Anatomy (Distinction/First Position), Physiology (Distinction/First Position), Ist MBBS (First Position), Pathology (Distinction/First Position), 2nd MBBS (First Position), Surgery (First Position), Final MBBS (First Position) and two Bronze Medals for obtaining the second position in Medicine and Forensic Medicine. I remember that one fine morning, my father, late Haji Abdul Rahim Khuroo, entered my room with an envelope in his hand and asked me to open it. It contained the results of my MBBS examinations and my achievements in MBBS as above. I asked him if he wishes to give me some advice. He was affirmative. Son, he said, I wish you to serve those in pain with sincerity, hard work, and dedication and use ethics, morality, and empathy at your best. “I wish that you serve your brethren as they deserve your help more than others. Lastly, I wish you to teach others what you know and explore the unknown in medicine and biology to establish Sadaqat Jariya (continuing charity) for you and the family,” I remember the emphasis on every single word, he said. I promised him that I will follow his advice to my best. This was in addition to the oath o a doctor. I have never broken that promise. I reiterated this promise while accepting the Life Time Achievement Award from the Indian National Association for the study of Liver (INASL) at the Inaugural function of the 26th Annual Scientific Meeting on August 3, 2018, at Hotel Pullman Aerocity, New Delhi. I had all the chances to move to the West, as most of my colleagues choose and many western organizations at that time offered me lucrative offers. However, I stayed back on a full-time job to serve society on small emoluments. I started with a meagre monthly pay of Rs 300 (US$3.87) per month as a resident doctor and superannuated as Director SKIMS with a fixed pay of Rs 9000 (US$ 116.2). I involved myself in a short stint of private practice and used substantial returns from it for research activities in the discovery of Hepatitis E. (Leading gastroenterologist, Dr Khuroo is a scientist, who headed SKIMS earlier.)
