=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[El Secuestro | Archer Wiki - Fandom]
"El Secuestro" is the tenth episode of the second season and the twentieth episode overall of Archer. It originally aired on March 31, 2011. When Pam is kidnapped, mistaken for Cheryl/Carol, ISIS discovers that Cheryl/Carol is really an heir to a billion-dollar empire and is being hunted by...
URL: https://archer.fandom.com/wiki/El_Secuestro

[El Secuestro might be the quintessential Archer episode]
I'm rewatching the series and even though there's so much more after Season 2, Episode 10, El Secuestro, I'm adamant that it might just be ...
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/ArcherFX/comments/zzf9ec/el_secuestro_might_be_the_quintessential_archer/

[Archer S 2 E 10 El Secuestro Recap - TV Tropes]
Wham Episode: This is the episode where Cheryl is revealed to be insanely wealthy, something which was never hinted in any of the previous episodes and will consistently affect the show moving forward.
URL: https://tvtropes.org/pmwiki/pmwiki.php/Recap/ArcherS2E10ElSecuestro

[Distraction Action - Archer Wiki - Fandom]
Oct 5, 2022 — "Distraction Action" is the seventh episode of the thirteenth season of Archer, being the one-hundred and thirty-third episode overall.
URL: https://archer.fandom.com/wiki/Distraction_Action

[Cheryl Reveals Her Wealthy Secret - Scene | Archer | FX]
Feb 24, 2024 · Cheryl reveals that she's a member of the Tunt family and heiress to a billion-dollar empire. Stream all episodes of Archer on Hulu. Archer Season 2, Episode 10.
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YqvqgOLeLOc


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [El Secuestro | Archer Wiki - Fandom] ---
"El Secuestro" is the tenth episode of the second season and the twentieth episode overall of Archer. It originally aired on March 31, 2011. Plot[] Synopsis[] When Pam is kidnapped, mistaken for Cheryl/Carol, ISIS discovers that Cheryl/Carol is really an heir to a billion-dollar empire and is being hunted by masked gunmen. Malory offers Cheryl/Carol ISIS as her personal bodyguard service, in exchange for financial compensation. Meanwhile, Archer and Ray attempt to rescue Pam while everyone else weighs the dollar-value of her life. Summary[] Cheryl Tunt was targeted for a kidnapping, but she misleads the kidnappers into thinking Pam Poovey is her. The kidnappers subdue Pam using a stun gun. When Cheryl gets to ISIS, she explains her tardiness by revealing that she was the target of a kidnapping. When Malory asks why anyone would want to kidnap her, Cheryl reveals that she is a member of a wealthy railroad family called the Tunts (her last name is not Gimple as it says on her W-4) and the descendant of railroad tycoon Cornelius Tunt. As they don't believe her, Cheryl proves this by taking the ISIS crew to her mansion home. Archer is thrilled to meet her pet ocelot, Babou. Indicating her parents died in a car accident (and she's missing the funeral), she then reveals she's worth about $500 Million, after splitting a $1 billion inheritance with her "gross" brother Cecil Tunt. Malory decides ISIS needs to protect Cheryl, for a fee of course. The kidnappers beat Pam, but she's tough enough to withstand it and insult the kidnappers. Cheryl is put in the ISIS vault and the building is locked down. The staff arm themselves resulting in Cyril accidentally shooting Brett. When they realize they have the wrong woman, they call ISIS using a voice changer. As Archer and Lana try to convince the kidnappers to let Pam go, Malory gets on the phone and tries to make a deal with the kidnappers. They can't agree to switch Pam with Cheryl, and Malory states she thinks Pam is only worth $5,000. Before Pam is killed, she agrees to help the kidnappers get Cheryl, and they go off to sneak into ISIS. Cyril, realizing Cheryl is not willing to return the $3,700 amount he lent her from his 401k, kidnaps her for a ransom and handcuffs her to a pipe away from all the others. Unaware of this, Malory and Lana believe the kidnappers got to Cheryl via the garage where Archer and Ray supposedly left to go rescue Pam. Both muse if either agent is short-sighted enough to leave the door wide open for the kidnappers to enter. In the garage, Archer fitfully demands Ray, who delightedly taunts him, to take off his own tactical turtleneck, believing he is the only one who should wear one. When his mother calls to find out if they left the door open, Archer says they haven't left and childishly whines to her about Ray's turtleneck. Malory berates her son for apparently allowing the kidnappers to abscond with Cheryl simply because he and Ray "were arguing over whose prettiest". Archer confirms the kidnappers did not arrive and deduces she is still in the building, closing the garage door so that he and Ray could go look for her. However, the garage door fails to fully close due to the kidnappers arriving in their van with Pam in tow. Archer finds Cheryl, who he believes 'kidnapped herself.' Once they are with the others, Pam and the kidnappers arrive. A shootout commences, with most of the kidnappers being killed. The lone survivor admits surrender. Lana tells him to put his hands up and asks Pam if she's okay. Pam asks "Do you people even give a shit?!" as she snaps the surviving kidnapper's neck, killing him instantly. Her co-workers are shocked and Pam bemoans her day by saying "Cheryl's dumbass gets me kidnapped and gets the shit kicked out of me all day, and no one tries to rescue me!" Ray blames Archer who tells him to shut up but Pam says "YOU SHUT UP, MR. PAM'S NOT WORTH IT!" scaring Archer. Pam is extremely upset that the team failed to help her and shot at the kidnappers with no regard for her safety. However, she is most upset with Malory, for putting a low price on her life. The others stay back as Pam approaches Malory, ready to beat her up, saying "Well, let's see how much you wiggle when I'm whipping 5000 bucks worth of your ass!" Malory asks if anyone is going to help her, but no one will. Archer says "Let her have this one" which shocks his mother. Pam challenges anyone to help, saying "Anybody want a piece of this?" as she removes her tank top, revealing her terrifying tattoo and her muscles. Echoing the sentiment of the rest who are silenced with fear, Lana states, "Nope." Cast[] - Starring : - Co-Starring : - George Coe as Woodhouse (credit only) - Adam Reed as Ray Gillette - Neal Holman as Kidnapper / Brett Buckley - Clarke Peters as Popeye Cultural References[] - Vanderbilt Family: The Tunt family has many references to this famous American known for their railroad and shipping empires as well as their extreme wealth. Cornelius Tunt shares the first name with their patriarch Cornelius Vanderbilt and George Washington Tunt with George Washington Vanderbilt. - Cornelius Vanderbilt II House: Cheryl's home, Tunt Manor is likely a reference to, among others, this gilded age mansion located on the famous Millionaire Row in New York City. - Abraham Lincoln: Cheryl says she had to listen to her grandmother complain about the 16th President of the United States due to her apparent fondness for slavery. - Roosevelt family: Cheryl says the Roosevelts are weird when Lana notices that next door to Tunt Manor is the Roosevelt Mansion. - Ocelot: Cheryl keeps one of these medium-sized spotted wild cats as a pet in her NYC mansion. The ocelot is similar to the bobcat in physical proportions and is normally found in South America, Central America, Mexico as well as a small population in southern Texas. Ocelots are also crepuscular animals which Cheryl states in response to Archer asking how she thinks Babou feels. This means they are active primarily during twilight hours. - Salvador Dalí: The name of Cheryl's ocelot is Babou. This is a reference to this famous artist's pet ocelot Babou, which he frequently traveled within the 1960s. - Auschwitz: Archer blends the word meow and the name of this WWII Nazi concentration camp to form "Meowchwitz" when describing Babou's room. - The Andy Griffith Show (1960-1968): Lana calls Cyril "Barn" and "Barney" when he accidentally discharges his weapon. This is in reference to a running gag on this classic American situation comedy in which deputy sheriff Barney Fife (played by Don Knotts) often discharges his weapon unintentionally and in one instance accidentally shoots himself in the foot. - M1 helmet: Cheryl is seen wearing these combat helmets used by the U.S. military from WWII until 1985. Her helmet is shown with a peace symbol on it which was a very common thing for soldiers to have on their helmets during the Vietnam War. - Isaac Asimov: Archer refers several times to the "first law of robotics" during one of the negotiation scenes when he mistakes the voice modulator for a cyborg. This is one of the three laws devised by science fiction writer Isaac Asimov in the short story, Runaround (1942), which regard to the proper conduct of robots. The first law states, "A robot may not injure a human being or, through inaction, allow a human being to come to harm." - Phone sex operator: Cyril says he is talking to one of these adult chat lines in order to cover up that he was actually calling ISIS posing as Cheryl's kidnapper. - The Boy Who Cried Wolf: Ray calls Cheryl "little miss cry wolf" implying that she kidnapped herself. - The Destruction of Sennacherib (1815): Pam has the third stanza of this song/poem written by Lord Byron which is based on an event from the campaign by Assyrian king Sennacherib to capture Jerusalem, as described in the Bible (2 Kings 18–19). Running Gags / Callbacks[] - Smells Like Glue: Cheryl once again is shown eating rubber cement, which she calls "gluing up". - Premature Shot: Cyril is shown three times that if handed a gun he will accidentally discharge it. - Bullet Magnet Brett: Brett continues his streak of being shot with no one showing any concern for him. - Mulatto Butts: Archer's cell phone again is shown to play Mulatto Butts as the ringtone. - Tactical Turtleneck: Pam's rescue mission is delayed due to Archer taking great offense to Ray also wearing a black turtleneck. - Try not to drown it: Malory demanding a refill. Continuity[] - Cyril accidentally shooting Brett marks the fourth time he has been shot. The three previous occasions of Brett being shot were in Mole Hunt (s1e1), Diversity Hire (s1e3) and "Movie Star". - Popeye was last seen in "A Going Concern". - This is the first time the exterior of Popeye's Suds and Duds is shown since Popeye bought the laundry business on the ISIS buildings ground floor in "A Going Concern". - In "Mole Hunt", Pam was shown to be much less resilient and capable than depicted in this episode. She had previously "tapped out," peed herself and required "three stitches" when Archer hit her with her dolphin puppet. Trivia[] - Title Explained : "El Secuestro" is Spanish for "The Kidnapping". - The ISIS computer's voice identification software clearly shows Brett's full name as Brett Buckley. However in the Season 5 premier White Elephant (s5e1) the FBI identifies him as Brett Bunsen. - Cheryl wears a US Army M69 flak vest, issued to soldiers in Vietnam. Made of layers of ballistic nylon, it was designed to protect the wearer from grenade, mortar and shell fragments, and was not, as Archer tells Cheryl, bulletproof. - A majority of Pam's back is covered by a text tattoo quoting the third stanza of the song/poem, The Destruction of Sennacherib written by Lord Byron and reads : - FOR THE ANGEL OF DEATH SPREAD HIS WINGS ON THE BLAST, AND BREATHED IN THE FACE OF THE FOE AS HE PASSED; AND THE EYES OF THE SLEEPERS WAXED DEADLY AND CHILL, AND THEIR HEARTS BUT ONCE HEAVED AND FOR EVER GREW STILL! - FOR THE ANGEL OF DEATH - There are several faces shown on a ISIS computer screen as a voice identification program runs through the ISIS database looking for a voice match. These faces belong to the main group of ISIS employees as well as several other known characters including: - Fictional Product Placement : - Mostly Musk Men's Cologne : An advertising poster can be seen above the entrance to the subway as Pam and Cheryl exit. - Red Beer : Pam is drinking a Red Beer from a can wrapped in a paper bag as she walks with Cheryl. - Rancho Cigarettes : A pack is seen strapped to the M1 helmet she wears while being protected by ISIS. - Dr. Krieger does not appear. Goofs[] - After the shootout, Pam screams "you shut up, Mr. Pam's-not-worth-it!" after Archer attempts to subdue her anger. Archer put the kidnappers on hold when he told Lana and Ray that saving Pam was not worth negotiating with cyborgs for, so there would be no way for her to hear him. - Theoretically, the chances of the kidnappers misidentifying Cheryl would be very slim; her being targeted was prompted by the fact that her parents' death increased her net worth from $50 million to $500 million, which would have required specific knowledge about the Tunt family. Furthermore, the kidnappers were able to determine the timing and route of her morning commute, yet were somehow unable to discern her from Pam. - Before Pam takes off her singlet, portions of her tattoos - at least parts of the thirteen hashmarks - should be visible above the singlet's rear neckline, since the tattoos come up to just below the nape of her neck. This is of course an animation cheat to preserve the reveal of her back tattoos, but could have been achieved with a singlet with a higher rear neckline. Locations[] - ISIS headquarters - Tunt Manor - Popeye's Suds and Duds - Unnamed NYC Street - Kidnappers Hideout - Unknown Warehouse (Flashback) First Appearances[] Characters[] Locations[] Quotes[] - Cheryl : "I didn't kidnap myself, he did." - Cyril : "Who me? No, no I've been up here the whole time, having some phone sex. Just jackin it, on the telephone." - Archer : "Um, does internet porn know you're cheating on it?" ───────────────────────── - Lana : "Pam are you OK?" - Pam : "Do you people even give a shit?" - (Pam breaks a kidnapper's neck) - Cyril : "Good God woman!" - Pam : "Cheryl's dumb ass gets me kidnapped and the shit kicked out of me all day and nobody even tries to rescue me!" - Ray : "Archer's fault." - Archer : "Shut up." - Pam : "You shut up, mister 'Pam's not worth it!'" - Archer : "Um..." - Pam : "Then you stupid a-holes shoot a jillion stupid a-holes bullets at me!" - Mallory : "Not me, I wasn't shooting." - Pam : "And you! The worst of the bunch!" - Mallory : "Me? Why me? - Pam : "Five thousand measly dollars." - Mallory : "You know maybe I lowballed him at first but I had some wiggle room." - Pam : "Ya?" - Mallory : "I... - Pam : "Well lets see how much you wiggle when I'm whipping five thousand bucks worth of your ass." - Mallory : "WHAT!?!?" - Lana : "Hey! Whoa, Pam." - Archer : "Lana, let her have this one." - Mallory : "Sterling, somebody, anybody?" - Pam : "Ya, anybody, want a piece of this?" - (After long silent pause) - Lana : "Nooope." ───────────────────────── Transcript[] Gallery of Images[] There are 26 screenshots and images from "El Secuestro" on this Wiki, visit the category page for a complete gallery. External Links[] - "El Secuestro" on IMDB Reference List[] - ↑ Archer Season 2 Episode 10 Ratings on tvbythenumbers.com


--- [El Secuestro might be the quintessential Archer episode] ---
You've been blocked by network security. To continue, log in to your Reddit account or use your developer token If you think you've been blocked by mistake, file a ticket below and we'll look into it. Log in File a ticket


--- [Archer S 2 E 10 El Secuestro Recap - TV Tropes] ---
When Pam is kidnapped (after being mistaken for Cheryl), ISIS discovers that Cheryl is really one of two heirs to a billion-dollar empire and is being hunted by masked gunmen. Meanwhile, Archer and Ray attempt to rescue Pam while everyone else weighs the dollar-value of her life. This episode provides examples of: - Accidental Murder: When we see a flashback of how Pam is able to take all the punishment she does in the episode, it shows that she accidentally beat the guy she was fighting to death, which she apologises for.Pam: (To the spectators of her fight) Sorry about killing your homie... homies. - Action Girl: Pam is revealed to be an expert fighter, and later effortlessly snaps the neck of the last of the kidnappers. - Borrowed Biometric Bypass: Averted. Pam points out that if the kidnappers kill her, they'd have to remove her eyes and fingertips to get past ISIS security. She tells them not to be dicks and leads them through security. - Bilingual Bonus: The episode title is Spanish for "The Kidnapping". - Bulletproof Vest: Cheryl is given one while hiding out at ISIS. Being a vest, it doesn't protect her arms, and she gets clipped in the bicep when the kidnappers storm the building. - Character Development: The last vestiges of early, boring Pam fall off here, as she settles into the role of the skull-cracker she's mainly known for. - Dirty Coward: - Cheryl allows Pam to be kidnapped when telling the kidnappers she's Cheryl. Much later, Cheryl deeply regrets this and makes it clear she's not giving Malory any money unless Pam's saved. - Cyril refuses to own up to kidnapping Cheryl in order to be repaid $3,700 that he lent her from his Roth IRA. - Everyone Has Standards: As much of a bitch as Malory is, even she wouldn't refuse to let her employees attend the funeral for their relatives, which is why she gets angry when Cheryl says she skipped her parents' funeral because Malory threatened to fire her if she was late again. - He Knows Too Much: One of the kidnappers deliberately invokes this, removing his mask when Pam claims that she doesn't know what they look like and won't be able to identify them, when they state their intention to kill her. - Idiot Ball: - The kidnappers did not even know what Cheryl looked like, which is what resulted in them taking Pam by mistake. ISIS also does not come off well, since they are a spy agency who apparently did not even do a thorough enough background check to know that the secretary of the head of the agency was not who she claimed to be. Plus, their wire trace technology is sub-par because Malory spent the budget on a fancy conference room table instead. - Archer sticks with the notion that the kidnappers are cyborgs because of the voice modifications. He ends the ransom call immediately because of this. And once they reveal themselves at ISIS, he still thinks they're cyborgs, much to their confusion. - Iron Butt-Monkey: Pam's underground fighting experience allows her to withstand the abuse of her kidnappers throughout the episode. - Karma Houdini: Cyril barely gets away from any consequence of kidnapping Cheryl himself by lying that he's masturbating to phone sex. In fact, everyone believed she kidnapped herself, which is considered "a step out of line", even for her. - Karma Houdini Warranty: The episode ends with Pam about to beat the brakes off of Malory and absolutely no one wanting to stop her. (It's unclear if Pam did beat her though.) - My God, What Have I Done?: After throwing Pam under the bus by telling the kidnappers she's Cheryl, Cheryl actually does feel horrible about it and refuses to sign Malory's contract for protection until they get her back. - Oh, Crap!: An easy-to-miss example, but you can see Pam's eyes widening when she realizes the van she just cursed at is beginning to open its doors. - Opportunistic Bastard: Malory immediately starts cozying up to Cheryl stating that ISIS is the only family she has left after discovering how rich she really is. - Rage Breaking Point: Pam, reasonably pissed off, sums up everything she has been through in the episode with this during the ending, shortly after finally being rescued:Lana: Pam, you okay?Pam: Do you people even give a shit?!(Pam snaps the neck of the last kidnapper with her bare hands)Cyril: Good God, woman!Pam: Cheryl's dumb ass gets me kidnapped and the shit kicked out of me all day and nobody even tries to rescue me?!Ray: Archer's fault.Archer: Shut up.Pam: YOU shut up, Mister "Pam's Not Worth It!" Then you stupid a-holes shoot a jillion stupid a-hole bullets at me!Malory: Not me! I wasn't shooting!Pam: Annnnd YOU! The worst of the bunch!Malory: Me?! Why me?!Pam: Five thousand measly dollars?Malory: You know, maybe I lowballed him at first but I-I I had some wiggle room!Pam: Yeah? Well let's see how much you wiggle when I'm whipping five-thousand-bucks-worth of your ass!Malory: What?!Lana: Hey, whoa, Pam!Archer: Lana. Let her have this one.Malory: Sterling! Somebody? Anybody?!Pam (taking her bra off to reveal Lord Byron's "The Destruction of Sennacherib" tattooed on her back): Yeah, anybody wanna piece of this?Lana: ...nope. - Railroad Baron: Cheryl's family wealth grew from one of her ancestors who built railroads across America. - Real After All: Malory mentions Cheryl once lied about being late because "Her ocelot was sick." After finding out about Cheryl's extreme wealth, Malory also learns she does have a pet ocelot named Babou. She looks noticeably surprised when she realizes the ocelot story was true. - Refuse to Rescue the Disliked: Zigzagged. Pam is far from the most disliked member of ISIS, but Archer and Malory feel like she's not worth the rescue or ransom because "it's just Pam". - Archer refuses to continue ransom negotiations because he thinks the kidnappers are cyborgs. - Malory prioritized protecting Cheryl over permitting a "heroic rescue". Before that, she hesitantly offered a meager $5,000 for Pam's release, much to Pam and the kidnappers' shock and annoyance. - However, Ray, Lana, Cheryl, and Cyril are determined to rescue Pam. While Lana is not above insulting Pam while she’s being kidnapped, she is still determined to rescue her. Lana does feel sympathy for Pam and asks if she is OK after Pam is free from the kidnappers. - Played straight in the end. Malory is a total pain throughout the episode for thinking so little of Pam. When Lana tries to stop an angry Pam from preparing to beat up Malory, the latter's own son decides to let Pam "have this one". - Secretly Wealthy: Cheryl is the heiress of the enormous Tunt railroad empire. Malory practically swoons upon learning just how rich she really is. Lana is more explicit:Lana: I am literally wet with jealousy! - Seven Dirty Words: Cheryl's family name is one letter away from the vulgar word. Invoked by Archer when Cheryl says her surname is "Tunt", he responds with "Tum again?" - Wham Episode: This is the episode where Cheryl is revealed to be insanely wealthy, something which was never hinted in any of the previous episodes and will consistently affect the show moving forward. - What the Hell, Hero?: Pam's speech at the end after snapping the neck of the last kidnapper, calling everybody out for the shit she went through, failing to provide a fast rescue, and preparing to beat Malory's ass for offering only $5,000 to save her.


--- [Distraction Action - Archer Wiki - Fandom] ---
"Distraction Action" is the seventh episode of the thirteenth season of Archer, being the one-hundred and thirty-third episode overall. Plot[] Synopsis[] Archer has a brilliant plan to evade capture, but he refuses to follow it. Summary[] Thanks to Fabian's manipulations, the Agency is blamed for all the international disasters they inadvertently caused due to the missions they took under the IIA. The gang, minus Ray, stays in an abandoned safehouse to keep out of the public eye and learn from the news that Fabian has gone missing. This puts them in a tough spot as they cannot return to the office or their homes due to the FBI and NSA investigating, and Lana has her custody hearing today, which will determine whether or not she loses custody of AJ. Archer puts together a plan to get Lana to the court without getting caught, saying they will use a series of distractions to give her more time. After the case ends, they will take Cheryl's private jet to leave the city and find Fabian for revenge. Archer rallies the group together, and they agree to go with the plan. Because Lana's court case is serious, Archer says they must work professionally for this to work and says they cannot deal with any personal bullshit. They drive Lana to the courthouse, and she manages to sneak past a car of FBI agents, beginning her custody case with Robert. Meanwhile, Pam gets the FBI agents to chase after her on her motorcycle, and she manages to lose them thanks to Cheryl's fireworks. Elsewhere, Archer goes to a local brothel and reunites with Trinette, the establishment's owner. He asks Trinette to help him ensure that Lana gets custody of AJ. Although reluctant to help Archer after everything he did to her in the past, Trinette gives him files containing all the shady deals Robert made that he shared with the prostitutes he slept with. At the courthouse, Cyril distracts the FBI agents with his roller-skating skills, just as Archer makes it to the courtroom, where Robert puts up a strong argument against Lana's parenting skills. Archer gives Lana the files for her to use, but she decides not to use them as she refuses to use the same underhanded methods Robert has used. Deciding to end this once and for all, Lana convinces Robert to let AJ decide who she wants to be with. AJ says she wants to be with Lana, even asking why Robert would start this custody case as Lana is her birth mother and he is a creepy millionaire. The judge grants full custody to Lana, and AJ hugs her mother in celebration, even giving Archer his long-awaited hug. Robert tries to pass this court case as a secret test, but that is soon undermined by the reveal he is working as a mole for the FBI. With their presence compromised, Archer and Lana escort AJ out of the courthouse and meet with the gang inside Krieger's van. They drive through the city and launch the van into the ocean to escape the blockages. However, the van moves painfully slowly, but they spot a yacht next to them that Trinette is hosting. Archer forcibly overtakes the yacht, and the group drives towards the airport just as the FBI chases after them. Pam provides them with weaponry she got from Alessia, and they manage to take out the FBI agents without killing them. Afterwards, they make it to the airport and get onto Cheryl's private jet, though Archer admits he did not think of who would fly the plane or where they were going. Still, they manage to fly away from the FBI agents thanks to an unexpected person: Slater of the CIA. Slater explains that thanks to Agency giving the files to Fabian from the bank, he blackmailed the President of Manatina and destabilized the country. Also, Slater reveals that Fabian has fled to the country with Ray, making the gang believe their friend has turned against them. Just as they start to give up, Cyril rallies the group and says they go kick Fabian's ass. However, he soon digs himself in a hole when he announces his intent to start dating again, making everyone mock him for being single for so long since Lana dumped him. Cast[] - Starring - Guest Starring : - Stephen Tobolowsky as Robert - Kimberly Woods as Abbiejean Kane-Archer - Christian Slater as Slater - Maggie Wheeler as Trinette McGoon - Alison Pill as Alessia


--- [Cheryl Reveals Her Wealthy Secret - Scene | Archer | FX] ---
About Press Copyright Contact us Creators Advertise Developers Impressum Cancel Memberships Terms Privacy Policy & Safety How YouTube works Test new features © 2026 Google LLC
