=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Law & Order: Special Victims Unit (TV Series 1999– ) - Episode list - IMDb]
Serial rapist and killer William Lewis abducts Olivia in her home, tortures her, and hides her away in a Long Island beach home.
URL: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0203259/episodes/?season=15

[Which episodes of Law & Order: SVU featured William Lewis?]
Pablo Schreiber made his first chilling appearance as William Lewis in Season 14, Episode 24 ("Her Negotiation"). RELATED: Why William Lewis Is the Worst Villain in Law & Order: SVU Lewis' main SVU storyline unfolded over the course of the following seasons, starting with Season 15, Episode 1 ("Surrender Benson"). His arc continued with: Season 15, Episode 3 ("American Tragedy"); Season 15, Episode 10 ("Psycho/Therapist"); Season 15, Episode 14 ("Wednesday's Child"); Season 15, Episode 20 ("Beast's Obsession"); and Season 15, Episode 21 ("Post-Mortem Blues"). All of Lewis' episodes are currently available to stream on Peacock.
URL: https://www.nbc.com/nbc-insider/what-happened-william-lewis-svu

["Law & Order: Special Victims Unit" Surrender Benson (TV Episode 2013) ⭐ 8.8 | Crime, Drama, Mystery]
urrender Benson: Directed by Michael Smith. With Mariska Hargitay, Danny Pino, Kelli Giddish, Richard Belzer. Serial rapist and killer William Lewis abducts Olivia in her home, tortures her, and hides her away in a Long Island beach home.
URL: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt2876044/

[Watch Law & Order: Special Victims Unit Online | Season 15 (2013) | TV Guide]
Sep 25, 2013 · Serial rapist and killer William Lewis abducts Olivia in her home, tortures her, and hides her away in a Long Island beach home. The case of an abandoned seven-year-old boy in Times Square...
URL: https://www.tvguide.com/tvshows/law-and-order-special-victims-unit/episodes-season-15/1000009212/

[Law & Order: Special Victims Unit season 15 - Wikipedia]
It was announced that Pablo Schreiber would return in the tenth episode of the season, "Psycho/Therapist", as William Lewis, when facing trial for kidnapping and assault to Detective Olivia Benson.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Law_&_Order:_Special_Victims_Unit_season_15


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Law & Order: Special Victims Unit (TV Series 1999– ) - Episode list - IMDb] ---
Wed, Jan 29, 2014 Sixteen year-old Avery Capshaw's (guest star Fiona Robert) parents report her kidnapped, and the SVU finds signs of a party turned violent. Her boyfriend, Manny Montero (Juan Castano), is a scholarship student from the Projects, and though his family swears he's on the right track, Amaro (Danny Pino) suspects he's involved with a dangerous gang. When Manny refuses to talk, the cops are forced to arrest him, but the violence only escalates. Meanwhile, Benson (Mariska Hargitay) is sworn in as the SVU's new sergeant.


--- [Which episodes of Law & Order: SVU featured William Lewis?] ---
What Happened During Psychopathic Kidnapper William Lewis' Creepy SVU Episodes? The chill-inducing villain tormented Olivia Benson during several unforgettable SVU episodes in Seasons 14 and 15. The chilling William Lewis, portrayed by the talented Pablo Schreiber, still maintains his status as one of the scariest Law & Order: Special Victims Unit villains in the show's 25 years and counting. Introduced in Season 14 and dominating the squad's attention throughout Season 15 of SVU, Lewis was a cunning master manipulator and sadistic serial killer and rapist who excelled at eluding justice. RELATED: 11 Law & Order: SVU Villains Fans Are Still Terrified Of He became obsessed with Olivia Benson (Mariska Hargitay) after first brushing shoulders with her and the squad in Season 14, and his sick vendetta against her created some of the series' most intense and emotionally charged episodes. If you're looking for a goosebump-inducing marathon of Law & Order, William Lewis' multi-episode SVU arc is bound to get the blood pumping. Trigger warning: This piece contains descriptions of sexual assault and suicide Which episodes of Law & Order: SVU featured William Lewis? Pablo Schreiber made his first chilling appearance as William Lewis in Season 14, Episode 24 ("Her Negotiation"). RELATED: Why William Lewis Is the Worst Villain in Law & Order: SVU Lewis' main SVU storyline unfolded over the course of the following seasons, starting with Season 15, Episode 1 ("Surrender Benson"). His arc continued with: Season 15, Episode 3 ("American Tragedy"); Season 15, Episode 10 ("Psycho/Therapist"); Season 15, Episode 14 ("Wednesday's Child"); Season 15, Episode 20 ("Beast's Obsession"); and Season 15, Episode 21 ("Post-Mortem Blues"). All of Lewis' episodes are currently available to stream on Peacock. How did Olivia Benson meet William Lewis on SVU? The squad first crossed paths with Lewis in the Season 14 finale of SVU ("Her Negotiation") when he was spotted in a halfway house sizzling off his own fingerprints with a grin, an ill omen of what was to come. While the detectives enjoyed a rare day off, then-Detective Amanda Rollins (Kelli Giddish) was enjoying a relaxing day in the park when two teenage girls reported Lewis for flashing them. Rollins quickly brought him in for questioning but soon learned he had no form of identification or fingerprints. The entire SVU had a sick feeling about it and so, to gather more time to unveil his identity, they arraigned Lewis. He refused to accept a plea bargain despite an elderly woman named Alice (Judith Ivey) witnessing the entire episode of public indecency play out. RELATED: See Photos of Olivia Benson and Elliot Stabler Over 25 Years Later, then-Captain Donald Cragen (Dann Florek) walked Alice home and asked if she'd testify, but Lewis was waiting for her after Cragen left. He subsequently tortured and assaulted her. After the SVU detectives found her, she was adamant that her attacker was Lewis before being whisked to the hospital in critical condition. Predictably, Lewis denied any involvement in Alice's horrific assault during his interrogation. Emboldened by the attack, Lewis described the assault in graphic detail all under the guise of hypothetical taunting. Benson and the squad knew it was him, but his confession wouldn't be permissible in court. Rollins, however, had figured out who their mystery suspect was: William Lewis, a repeat offender who had kidnapped and assaulted his ex-girlfriend's mother 15 years before but wasn't convicted because she was too traumatized to testify. He later abducted two roommates and assaulted them for several days in a remote fishing cabin, but got off because those victims were also too traumatized to testify. He also charmed his defense attorney during the fishing cabin case to help him get off, only to later assault and murder her, again getting off on a technicality. He excelled at legal loopholes and often skirted his criminal record by using aliases phonetically similar to his actual name to fog up police records. Cragen promised the squad Lewis wouldn't get away with it again, but that proved to be easier said than done when it was clear he'd struck up a good rapport with his new defense attorney. To make matters worse, Alice died from a heart attack while in the hospital and her fading eyesight was leveraged against her statement to police. The SVU watched as Lewis was let off on another technicality, with the entire squad feeling gut-punched by the troubling verdict as the detectives headed home for the night. Benson was especially upset, prompting Cragen to tell her to take a few days off. When did William Lewis kidnap Olivia Benson on SVU? In the final moments of SVU's Season 14 finale, Benson returned to her apartment to discover Lewis waiting for her arrival with a gun in his hand. He then dragged the horrified Benson to the bedroom as the episode faded to black. In the Season 15 premiere ("Surrender Benson"), Lewis was tying up a beaten-up Benson for horrific questioning. Despite her attempts to convince him to released her, he promised her she'd never be saved and took her to a car. It didn't take long for Benson's then-boyfriend Detective Brian Cassidy (Dean Winters) to notice her absence from work and ask the squad if they'd heard from her — they hadn't. Rollins and Fin Tutuola (Ice T) then visited Benson's apartment to check on her, only to find it empty and in total disarray. As the squad launched a manhunt, Lewis had taken Benson on a vicious road trip, forcing her to watch as he assaulted the mother and murdered the father of his own most recent defense attorney. She also watched as he shot a rookie cop for pulling him over for running a light. When the squad found the defense attorney's parents, they learned that Benson had been with Lewis during the attack. By that time, though, kidnapper and victim had arrived at a secluded beach house, where he cuffed her to an iron bed. How was Olivia Benson rescued from William Lewis on SVU? Lewis was seconds away from sexually assaulting Benson in Season 15, Episode 1 ("Surrender Benson") when a maid and her young daughter showed up at the cabin for cleaning. Lewis pulled the girl and then pushed her mother inside, instantly raising the stakes for Benson (who had quietly used her handcuffs to pry off the bed frame bar to which she'd been secured). As she taunted Lewis, he indicated he planned to make the little girl his next victim after her, and then moved to finish the sexual assault he'd started before the interruption. Benson pulled off the bed frame bar, hit Lewis in the head with it, broke his arm with it as he reached for his gun, kneed him in the solar plexus, and grabbed the gun herself. He then taunted her — "OK, you want to be in control for a while, baby, I can play that" — so she hit him in the forehead with the butt of the gun, knocking him out. She then freed the maid and daughter, who Lewis had tied up in the next room, and told them to leave and never tell anyone. Having cuffed the unconscious Lewis to the foot of the bed where he'd planned to assault her, Benson then mused about all of the ways she wanted to torture and kill him, at one point even referencing what she thought her former partner Elliot Stabler (Christopher Meloni) would do to him. Lewis, however, was awake for some of it and taunted Benson for her inability to just kill him. But after he begged her to shoot him and then taunted her for lacking the nerve, Benson beat him within an inch of his life with the bar from the bedframe. In the next scene, Benson was led out of the home by her partner, Detective Nick Amaro (Danny Pino), and Fin told her that Lewis had narrowly survived. Years later, the episode remains a significant SVU turning point, and Benson was never the same. "It was, without a doubt, the most difficult episode I ever shot in 15 years, and it was unlike anything I've ever done," Hargitay revealed to TODAY after the episode aired in 2013. "I have to tell you, after 15 years, to be nervous and scared and excited to go to work — it's a pretty great thing." When did William Lewis go on trial in SVU? Then-Assistant District Attorney Rafael Barba (Raúl Esparza) had his work cut out for him when Lewis returned in Season 15, Episode 10 ("Psycho/Therapist") on trial for several charges, including the kidnapping, assault, and attempted rape of Benson. Despite Barba and Benson's careful preparation, Lewis threw a wrench in everyone's plans by first representing himself and then proposing a deal wherein he would plead guilty to raping Benson (despite not having done so). She refused to allow him to plead guilty to the wrong crime just to embarrass her. From the get-go, it was clear Lewis' intention at trial was to make Benson look culpable by leveraging his many injuries; he'd lost some hearing and eyesight due to beating she'd inflicted. And, while cross-examining her, he poked holes in her testimony, attempting to get her to admit that she'd lost control and beat him, which she'd claimed was done in self-defense after he escaped from his own handcuffs. Benson, however, stuck to her (false) testimony that she only beat Lewis after he escaped, earning a strong reaction from Lewis. After successfully pointing to the holes in Benson's story and making it seem that she'd been sexually interested in him, the jury ultimately acquitted Lewis on the general assault and rape charges but found him guilty of kidnapping and assaulting a police officer. He was sent to prison for 25 years to life, and Benson was left feeling sick about the results. In the closing moments of the episode, however, Lewis was seen on a stretcher being rushed to the hospital after having a seizure. From his meaningful glance with Janice Cole (Sarah Street) — the prison physician who helped him ham up his injuries, at trial — it was clear that Lewis still had something up his sleeve. How did William Lewis escape from jail on SVU? It was revealed in Season 15, Episode 20 ("Beast's Obsession") that Lewis had charmed the jury forewoman during his trial and, believing Lewis to be innocent, she prepared spiked pastries and gave them to him during a prison visit. After ingesting the spiked treats, he complained of chest pain and was wheeled to the hospital... where he was pronounced dead. RELATED: Where to Watch and Stream Law & Order: Special Victims Unit But 10 minutes after the proclamation, Lewis came to and subdued the surrounding guards, successfully escaping from the hospital after killing the guard, raping and mutilating the nurse, and stealing her uniform. One of the first things Lewis did was video call Benson with the nurse's phones to tell her that he missed her and would see her soon. What happened to William Lewis after he broke out of jail? Benson instantly orchestrated a manhunt after Lewis escaped in Season 15, Episode 20 ("Beast's Obsession"), but NYPD Captain Declan Murphy (Donal Logue) informed her and the squad that he was taking control of the unit. Benson at the helm was a conflict of interest because she was the assailant's target. Lewis, meanwhile, went to the home of his once-helpful prison doctor, Janice Cole, killed her, raped her teenage daughter Lauren (Natalie Racoosin), and kidnapped her 12-year-old daughter, Amelia (Lily Pilblad). When Benson visited Lauren in the hospital, she told her that Lewis had a message for her: Tell the truth or Amelia would be killed. Benson then came clean to Murphy about perjuring herself and, while shocked, he told her that she should have killed Lewis when she had the chance. After killing another man, Lewis called the police to speak to Benson, where he told her to confess on the nightly news that she'd beaten him while he was handcuffed. He then pretended to kidnap and kill his former defense attorney, Martha Marron (Renée Elise Goldsberry) — though he actually just killed a stranger in the lawyer's building. RELATED: Dann Florek's Final Scenes as Cragen Feature an Emotional Heart-to-Heart with Benson Benson ultimately agreed to confess on live TV as long the two victims were released, exciting Lewis. During the alleged release, Lewis revealed he lied about kidnapping Marron and escaped once again. Benson went on the news and declared she had assaulted Lewis out of rage rather than self-defense, claiming the confession was of her own volition. Aware of the risks of mollifying a psychopath, Murphy assigned Benson a security detail, but she ditched them and took a civilian's car to meet up with Lewis at a junkyard to save Amelia. How did Olivia Benson take down William Lewis on SVU? After she arrived at the junkyard, Lewis took Benson' weapon, cell phone, and police vest before kidnapping her. He then took her to Amelia at a deserted factory. There, Lewis forced Benson to choose who he'd sexually assault: Her or Amelia. Benson mechanically volunteered but after Lewis began fondling her, Benson's lack of resistance and refusal to play along with his fantasy befuddled him. In a fury, he pivoted and forced Benson to instead play a game of Russian Roulette while harping on their supposed connection; she reminded him that he was the only obsessed one. After loading a six-chambered revolver, Lewis pressed the gun to his head and fired an empty chamber. RELATED: The Best Law & Order: SVU Episodes Fans Never Forget Lewis then held Benson at gunpoint for her turn, whereupon she also pulled the trigger on an empty chamber. Lewis excitedly pulled the trigger on a third empty chamber. But with the fourth shot looming, the sound of NYPD helicopters distracted Lewis from their game; Murphy had figured out where they were. Lewis pointed out that, if he died, everyone would assume that Benson had killed him. Grabbing Benson's radio, Lewis taunted the SVU detectives while insisting the game continue. Benson took the gun and aimed the fourth shot at her head, revealing another empty chamber; Lewis quickly followed. The fifth shot was also an empty. As they stared down at the revolver with the one bullet left in the chamber, Lewis informed her that it was game over and then shot himself in the head with his left hand from a distance, in order to make it look like Benson had done it. Amelia screamed, and Benson looked at Lewis' blood on her hand. What happened after William Lewis died on SVU? Lewis calculated that even his suicide would have repercussions for Benson — which it did in Season 15, Episode 21 ("Post-Mortem Blues"). She had ditched her security detail, disobeyed her commanding officer's orders, and, hours before Lewis' death, confessed to perjuring herself and using excessive force on Lewis. On top of that, he'd successfully made his death look like a murder, despite it being a suicide (and despite Amelia being in the room with her back turned). The Internal Affairs Bureau was convinced Benson had committed justifiable homicide, but she refused to change her story, leading them to send her case to a grand jury to indict her for murder. Murphy was ultimately Benson's ace-in-the-hole: He (ironically) lied and told the grand jury that he had commanded Benson to falsely admit to perjury to lure Lewis out of hiding; he also highlighting Lewis' psychopathy. His testimony worked, and the grand jury refused to indict her. While Benson succeeded in ending Lewis' horrific reign, his impact reverberated throughout the series for years. Her recovery took a long time and, as she focused on addressing her inner demons in Season 25 of SVU, Lewis made several appearances via flashback. "The William Lewis arc was the most taxing [for me to film]. It was gut-wrenching to shoot, but it was a treat to work with Pablo Schreiber," Hargitay told TV Insider in 2018. "I trusted him, so I was able to go there."


--- ["Law & Order: Special Victims Unit" Surrender Benson (TV Episode 2013) ⭐ 8.8 | Crime, Drama, Mystery] ---
Surrender Benson/Imprisoned Lives - Episode aired Sep 25, 2013 - TV-14 - 1h 24m Serial rapist and killer William Lewis abducts Olivia in her home, tortures her, and hides her away in a Long Island beach home.Serial rapist and killer William Lewis abducts Olivia in her home, tortures her, and hides her away in a Long Island beach home.Serial rapist and killer William Lewis abducts Olivia in her home, tortures her, and hides her away in a Long Island beach home. Photos - Detective Odafin 'Fin' Tutuola - (as Ice T) - ADA Rafael Barba - (credit only) - Director - Writers - All cast & crew - Production, box office & more at IMDbPro Storyline Did you know - TriviaThis is the first episode in which Raúl Esparza is credited as a main character since he is promoted to a series regular starting with season 15. - Goofs(at around 29 mins) Right before Detective Benson frees herself from the iron-frame bed with one of the poles, Lewis already has blood on his face and t-shirt while he is unzipping his pants before she is free from restraint and has an opportunity to subdue him. - Quotes Olivia Benson: [to Lewis after suduing him] Hey. Hey, you. You're out cold, are you? I haven't called anybody yet. I think I want you to suffer first. Maybe I could burn you or cut you. Or I could use the blowtorch on you, but you might enjoy that too much. See, you you'd know what to do. Your whole life, you know what you want and you just do it. What I want to do I want to shoot you in the head right now, watch you bleed out. Or maybe that's too easy. My old partner he'd know what to do. He wouldn't question himself after what you've done. He would kick your teeth in, break your legs, break your arms, break your back, break your face. Maybe I should call him. Maybe I should get him to use that metal bar on you, huh? And make you beg for your life. One of those "quite a lot of episodes" is "Surrender Benson". And it fares more than very well on re-watch, everything comes over as even better now and it is one of not many episodes of 'Law and Order: Special Victims Unit' that whole-heartedly lives up to the huge amount of hype prior to airing. The show varied with its season openers (though much more so with its season finales), and "Surrender Benson" is one of the best ones in my view and one of the best episodes of Season 15. The good things are pretty much endless and they are more than good. First and foremost, Mariska Hargitay's performance here is one of her best of the show where she has material that plays to her strengths. Her performance here is intense, yet her vulnerability is also harrowing. Even better is Pablo Schreiber, who is every bit as bone chilling as he was in "Her Negotiation" as one of the show's most talked about and widely lauded recurring characters. The chemistry between Hargitay and Schreiber is nothing short of scintillating. It is their chemistry that would have been perhaps the most important component/ingredient to get right and would make or break the episode, and it's nailed in "Surrender Benson". The story is hard hitting and tension-laden, where Olivia's rescue is rooted for. The treatment of Olivia is truly hard to watch without being too heavy on the shock value, which it could easily have done. The ending is unexpected and shocking. Even with the location number being more restricted, "Surrender Benson" is solid visually with some suitably nightmarish lighting in the beachhouse scenes. The photography is intimate but not claustrophobic. The music when used is not too over-emphatic and has a melancholic edge that is quite haunting. The direction is sympathetic enough without being leaden, while having enough momentum to make the drama sing in its atmosphere. Furthermore, the script is constantly intriguing and taut. Lewis' taunting is not easy to forget in the long run. Brilliant season opener. 10/10. - TheLittleSongbird - Aug 1, 2022


--- [Watch Law & Order: Special Victims Unit Online | Season 15 (2013) | TV Guide] ---
Join or Sign In Sign in to customize your TV listings By joining TV Guide, you agree to our Terms of Use and acknowledge the data practices in our Privacy Policy. 24 Episodes 2013 - 2014 The 15th season of this crime drama picks up where the previous season left off, with Benson (Mariska Hargitay) being held captive by serial killer and rapist William Lewis (Pablo Schreiber). The events of that harrowing situation haunt Benson throughout the season, and Lewis makes several return appearances, both in her dreams and in person. Two longtime cast members make their exits this season: Sgt. Munch (Richard Belzer) and Capt. Cragen (Dann Florek). Meanwhile, Rollins (Kelli Giddish) sees her gambling habit return with a vengeance. Guest stars include Cybil Shepherd as a celebrity chef involved in a racially motivated shooting; Jonathan Silverman as a comedian who jokes about rape; and Bradley Whitford as a TV producer whose ex-wife accuses him of molesting his own daughter. Episode 1 Wed, Sep 25, 2013 60 mins In the 15th-season opener, Benson is held captive and the squad take extreme measures to find her and her abductor, but they worry they might be out of time. Episode 2 Wed, Sep 25, 2013 60 mins A child abandoned in Times Square leads police to a basement full of kidnapping victims, which prompts the reopening of several cold cases. Episode 3 Wed, Oct 2, 2013 60 mins A celebrity chef fears she's about to be the next victim in a string of rapes, so she shoots an unarmed teenager that she believes is the assailant. Meanwhile, Benson struggles to move on in the wake of her kidnapping. Episode 4 Wed, Oct 9, 2013 60 mins A cop in a psych ward claims his former squad is corrupt, so Cassidy goes undercover at the squad and winds up in a perilous situation. Episode 5 Wed, Oct 16, 2013 60 mins A former rape victim believes she's been assaulted again, so she contacts Benson. During the investigation, the detectives narrow in on a charming computer whiz who targets vulnerable females and lures them into keeping silent. Meanwhile, Munch retires, and coworkers gather to wish him well. Episode 6 Wed, Oct 23, 2013 60 mins Barba's childhood pal is charged with attempted rape, and the arrest taints a mayoral campaign because of the suspect's connection to a candidate. Soon, evidence of misconduct by the candidate surfaces, and Barba faces a tough situation as the ADA. Episode 7 Wed, Nov 6, 2013 60 mins A popular singing coach with a role on a reality-TV show is accused of sexual assault by a student. After the case becomes public, other victims emerge, but the coach won't admit to any wrongdoing. Episode 8 Wed, Nov 13, 2013 61 mins Police suspect that a junior military officer was raped, and the prime suspects are soldiers from her unit. However, the victim is reluctant to cooperate and her commanding officer attempts to impede the investigation. Episode 9 Wed, Nov 20, 2013 61 mins Rollins' friend claims she was raped by her lover, but the case is challenging to prove. Things get further complicated when a murder occurs, a love triangle is exposed and Rollins is forced to reveal personal info on the stand. Episode 10 Wed, Jan 8, 2014 61 mins Benson must face her attacker, William Lewis, in court, and he resorts to legal tricks once again. Consequently, Benson has to reveal some details about the ordeal that she had kept to herself. Episode 11 Wed, Jan 15, 2014 60 mins Amaro wounds a teenager who's a suspected drug dealer, but the case gets negative media attention. As Amaro wrestles with his conscience, he must also decide if fighting for his badge is worth it. Meanwhile, Cragen makes a shocking announcement. Episode 12 Wed, Jan 22, 2014 60 mins A teen runaway is found raped near a park, and the case leads police to a New Jersey strip club connected to sex-trafficking investigation. Signs of a cover-up surface when law enforcement in the Garden State fail to cooperate with Barba. Episode 13 Wed, Jan 29, 2014 60 mins A teenage girl's parents report her kidnapped, and her boyfriend gets arrested after he refuses to cooperate with police. Meanwhile, Benson is officially sworn in as the squad's new sergeant. Episode 14 Wed, Feb 5, 2014 61 mins Police look for a missing boy who needs insulin, and soon he's seen with a criminal duo who have a history of child endangerment and pornography. Meanwhile, Benson's professional trajectory goes off course because of a personal matter. Episode 15 Wed, Feb 26, 2014 61 mins A comedian jokes about rape while performing at a college, and then his fans assault a student. Later, a woman accuses the comedian of rape and Benson arrests him, but Barba fears Benson may have acted too eagerly. Meanwhile, a Chicago cop seeks help from the NYPD. Episode 16 Wed, Mar 5, 2014 61 mins A football recruit from Georgia visits a college in New York City and winds up in jail after he becomes the victim of a hazing prank. The police then investigate the school's football program and uncover a pattern of abuse. Meanwhile, Rollins seeks help from a friend as her personal problems intensify. Episode 17 Wed, Mar 12, 2014 60 mins Rollins patronizes an illegal gambling club, where she's recognized by one of the staff. She then makes a shady deal with the club's managers, but she doesn't do enough to please them, and before long, her colleagues become aware of the situation. Episode 18 Wed, Mar 19, 2014 61 mins A newspaper columnist is granted full access to the squad as they investigate a Muslim woman's rape, and he soon concludes the case is a hoax. The woman then faces public scrutiny while Benson worries that a rapist is getting away with a crime. Series star Mariska Hargitay directed the episode. Episode 19 Wed, Apr 2, 2014 60 mins A single mom gets arrested for child endangerment because she leaves her daughter home alone. However, Benson suspects the mother's actions are based on fear and not neglect, and Dr. Lindstrom uncovers the woman's own repressed memories of being abused. Episode 20 Wed, Apr 9, 2014 61 mins William Lewis breaks free from prison and goes on a killing spree before he gets ahold of Benson once again. He then forces her to make a tough decision when a child's life is at stake. Episode 21 Wed, Apr 30, 2014 61 mins Benson is investigated following William Lewis' death, and a prosecutor convenes a grand jury and calls for her arrest. While two lieutenants advise Benson to save her career at all costs, she wrestles with what's the right thing to do. Episode 22 Wed, May 7, 2014 61 mins A TV producer is accused of molesting his daughter, but the cops suspect the accusations are a ploy when his estranged wife won't cooperate with them, yet she will speak with the media about the matter. Episode 23 Wed, May 14, 2014 60 mins An aggressive tactic for capturing sex offenders is used by the squad when they go undercover and target a successful photographer who may have taken his fantasies too far. However, no victim is found, making the case challenging. Episode 24 Wed, May 21, 2014 61 mins In the 15th-season finale, Amaro lands in trouble with the Internal Affairs Bureau again, so he turns to Munch for advice. Meanwhile, several male tourists get robbed and raped after replying to an escort ad online, and Benson has a shocking connection to a suspect in a case.


--- [Law & Order: Special Victims Unit season 15 - Wikipedia] ---
The fifteenth season of Law & Order: Special Victims Unit made its debut with a two-hour premiere episode on September 25, 2013, at 9pm/8c - 11pm/10c (Eastern), on NBC. The season ended on May 21, 2014, after 24 episodes.
