=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Shenandoah National Park - Wikipedia]
Shenandoah National Park / ˈʃɛnənˌdoʊə / (often / ˈʃænənˌdoʊə /) is a national park of the United States that encompasses part of the Blue Ridge Mountains in Virginia.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shenandoah_National_Park

[Artists-In-Residence - Shenandoah National Park Trust]
Talk of preserving these great places ensued and the national park system was born. Today, art continues to inspire us to protect these great places, even in post-pandemic 2021. SNP Trust provided the seed funding to launch Shenandoah National Park's Artist in Residence program in 2013 and we are proud to continue to fund it annually.
URL: https://www.snptrust.org/project/artists-in-residence/

[Superintendent Jim Northup Archives - Augusta Free Press]
The National Park Service is seeking to amend the approved 2013 Chronic Wasting Disease Detection/Assessment Plan, Shenandoah National Park.
URL: https://augustafreepress.com/tag/superintendent-jim-northup/

[Shenandoah National Park announces artists selected for 2023 Artist-in ...]
LURAY, VA - Shenandoah National Park has selected five artists for its annual Artist-in-Residence program. The program gives artists of all types an opportunity to creatively explore Shenandoah's natural and cultural resources and pursue their artistic discipline.
URL: https://www.nps.gov/shen/learn/news/04172023_air.htm

[Shenandoah National Park Announces 2025 Artists-In-Residence ...]
The Shenandoah National Park Trust has proudly supported the Artists-In-Residence program since 2013 through generous donations, and we are proud to continue doing so through the program's 13th year.
URL: https://www.snptrust.org/artist-in-residence/shenandoah-national-park-announces-2025-artists-in-residence/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Shenandoah National Park - Wikipedia] ---
Shenandoah National Park  (often ) is a national park of the United States that encompasses part of the Blue Ridge Mountains in Virginia. The park is long and narrow, with the Shenandoah River and its broad valley to the west, and the rolling hills of the Virginia Piedmont to the east. Skyline Drive is the main park road, generally traversing along the ridgeline of the mountains. Almost 40% of the park's land—79,579 acres (124 sq mi; 322 km2)—has been designated as wilderness areas and is protected as part of the National Wilderness Preservation System. The highest peak is Hawksbill Mountain at 4,051 feet (1,235 m).




--- [Artists-In-Residence - Shenandoah National Park Trust] ---
The Hudson River School painters of the mid-1800s were instrumental in the birth of national parks. Until this time, American artists had focused primarily on portraits of people and depictions of historical events. The Hudson River School turned its attention instead to American landscapes, providing the public with its first interpretation of parts of the country most had never seen. Talk of preserving these great places ensued and the national park system was born. Today, art continues to inspire us to protect these great places, even in post-pandemic 2021. SNP Trust provided the seed funding to launch Shenandoah National Park’s Artist in Residence program in 2013 and we are proud to continue to fund it annually. Artists live and work in the park for three-week sessions and engage park visitors in public programs. See our digital gallery of work submitted by our former Artists-in-Residence here! The 2026 Shenandoah National Park Artist-in-Residence Application is now live! If you or someone you know is interested in creating art, being immersed in the beauty of Shenandoah, and inspiring others in the process, we encourage you to learn more about this opportunity and how to apply! Project Title: Artist-in-Residence Program Project Purpose: to inspire artists and visitors to think deeply about the value of Shenandoah National Park — to inspire stewardship of the Park Project Goals: - to understand the landscape of Shenandoah in new and unique ways - to increase awareness about important concepts, such as climate change and wildlife management, through images and sound - to enrich visitor experiences in the Park Project Impact: By inviting professional artists to interpret the landscape through traditional and contemporary art, we provide programming and inspiration for visitors for 15 weeks every year, encouraging them to think deeply about their connections and experiences with Shenandoah National Park and — hopefully — become good stewards of the Park. Project Funding Expenses for FY25: $19,300 Project Funding Still Needed: $19,300 2018 Artist-In-Residence, Malia Furtado. 2022 Artist-In-Residence, Jillian Sico. Former Artists-in-Residence LIA PIKUS – CELLIST (MAY 1-22) Lia is a cellist, composer, and multidisciplinary artist whose practice centers around art’s ability to cultivate experiences of connection, both within community and in dialogue with the natural world. As a Thomas J. Watson fellow, she researched this connective power on a global scale, exploring the role of art in fostering community specifically in the context of collective re-imaginations of justice. This research forms the foundation for her current explorations of live looping as a form of meditative ritual and is the central focus of the songs on Ritual, which released in February of 2024. Her current preferred media are cello, loop pedal, voice, field recordings and biodata sonification. “I grew up partially in and around the Blue Ridge Mountains and felt a magnetic pull back homewards to begin conceptualizing my first album. I seek to create meditative sonic experiences that awaken the audience’s awareness to the landscapes, natural processes, flora, and fauna with which I am conversing in my works.” MEGAN EVANS – PAINTER/PRINTMAKER(JULY 8-29) Megan uses her art to investigate nature, specifically the way in which mathematical concepts are represented. She has always been interested in the recurring shapes seen within the natural environment. Through the repetition of shape and natural elements, her paintings reflect elements of this world in a non-traditional way. Megan is also a highly regarded visual art educator, driven to inspire all of her students to become life-long arts enthusiasts, while also preparing students for careers in visual art. She has worked for Columbus City Schools for 25 years, while continuing to create and exhibit her own work throughout Ohio. She holds a Bachelor of Arts in Visual Art from the University of Findlay and a Master of Art Education from The Ohio State University. “I am looking forward to the dedicated time to think and work on the thing that feeds my soul the most. For the public programming, I will focus on natural textures and developing observational drawings, including how to use the technique of sighting to get accurate proportions and angles within drawing.” JO CLARK – POET (AUGUST 5-26) Jo is a writer from Charlottesville, Virginia. She’s interested in all the threads that weave through nostalgia, and the simultaneous refuge and ruggedness of the natural world. She is an Master of Fine Arts candidate at Syracuse University where she teaches undergraduate writing and works for Salt Hill Journal. Before moving to Syracuse, she received her Bachelor of Arts in Creative Writing and Medieval & Renaissance literature from the University of Virginia. Her work can be found in Sundog Lit, Hooligan Magazine, Whale Road Review, Volume Poetry, and elsewhere. She is a 2024 Elizabeth George Foundation grant recipient and a finalist for Shenandoah magazine’s Graybeal-Gowen Prize for Virginian poets. “I grew up in the shadow of the Blue Ridge and have always felt a deep connection to Shenandoah National Park. I can’t wait to fill up my notebook with new poems inspired by sights, sounds, and memories the park conjures. It’ll be such a treat to get back in touch with the restorative and refreshing Virginian landscape.” SUSAN PATRICE – PHOTOGRAPHER/INTERDISCIPLINARY ARTIST (SEPTEMBER 9-30) Susan is a documentary and contemplative photographer. Her photography and public installations focus on the Appalachian landscape and its people and feature intimate images that touch deeply into questions of place and belonging. Since 2016, her work has primarily explored the nature of visual perception and its impact on our feelings of kinship with the natural world. She engages in intimate gestural conversations with the land through the use of hand-built cameras designed in response to place. She lives in Marshall, North Carolina, where she is the director of Makers Circle and a co-founder of the Kinship Photography Collective. “During my residency, I will experiment with ways that photography can bear witness to the massive scales of time and space in which the Appalachian region has evolved while also attending to the ever-changing landscape and what it can tell us about transformation and resiliency.” AIMEE BOBRUK – SINGER/SONGWRITER (OCTOBER 3-24) Aimee spent 15 years in Austin, Texas learning to write songs and perform until songs and love took her to the edge of the Baltic Sea where she now resides on an island in Denmark. In her own words, “I write to make sense of the world and my place in it.” In 2024, Aimee is releasing her album, Malybanchia, inspired from her journey along the Mississippi River and residency at the childhood home of American author, Carson McCullers. She is also launching an online global songwriting club for teens called, Tuneagers. She has released three additional studio albums and has written over 25 songs with international artists and publishing companies. In 2018, she made a documentary film, Borderlanders, where she rode the Texas/Mexico border on a motorcycle and interviewed locals about life in this region. During her residency, she will be writing songs inspired by nature and the stories she encounters from park visitors. Sonya Lara – Poet & Essayist Sonya led a public program on May 6th to kick off Wildflower Weekend, reflecting on birdsong and challenging visitors to think deeply about the scientific and social labeling of both birds and people in Shenandoah and beyond. “I think it’s kind of magical that the park will be fossilized in some of my poetry and creative nonfiction. Regardless of how the park evolves and changes years down the line, it’ll always be cemented in that one way that I was able to experience it.” See more of Sonya’s work here: https://www.sonyalara.com/ Nina Grauley – Scientific Illustrator “Paying attention to the particularities of a community – whether it is made up of plants or people- is an act of love,” said Nina. “I very much have a researcher’s heart – I love looking at the world and asking questions. I get incredibly excited about big academic ideas and tiny clumps of moss on the sidewalk. This world is so big and so beautiful and the closer you look at anything the more exciting it gets – but also the more obvious it becomes that our relationships with ourselves, each other, and with nature are broken. I believe that looking closely at nature can teach us more about what it means to be human, and how we can begin the process of healing together.” See more of Nina’s work here: https://ninagrauley.com/ Paul Atkinson – Photographer Paul Atkinson is a self-taught American artist working in the photographic medium. His work celebrates not only the natural landscape, but also explores the human landscape from a detached examination of what is left behind. He employs the assumed truthfulness of the camera to present a reality that frequently transcends the limits of human visual perception, through both night photography and by including light from the near-infrared spectrum. “In a place like Shenandoah National Park, the possibilities are endless for a photographer,” he said. “Having this space to delve deeper and connect with the landscape will give me the freedom to try new things, to experiment, to explore. My art lets me visualize so much more than just what my eyes can see – I want to share that excitement.” See more of Paul’s work here: https://www.patkinsonphoto.com/ Ines Sun – Calligrapher Ines Sun is a multidisciplinary visual artist who has harmoniously immersed herself in the crossroads of East and West. It inspires her paintings and installation projects. She went to the China Academy of Art in China to master Chinese calligraphy and brush painting, where she accumulated a substantial body of work. Her strokes of paint flow like Abstraction Expressionist, yet with the aesthetic and discipline of Chinese brush painting. See more of Ines’s work here: https://inessun.com/ Jill Haley – Musician & Composer Jill creates music inspired by national parks and performs her compositions around the world, accompanied by video of the places that sparked her creativity. Her primary instruments are oboe and English horn. See more of Jill’s work here: https://jillhaley.com/ Jillian Sico – Printer, Papermaker, Bookbinder Jillian is a printer, papermaker, and bookbinder pursuing an MFA in Book Arts at the University of Alabama. Her work is inspired by the slow, quiet reality that she encounters in wild places and natural processes. Making paper by hand, growing fibers and dye plants, and carving wood all require a quiet, meditative patience. Slowing down, engaging fully with the materials, and spending time outdoors allows Jillian to think deeply about how we, as humans, connect with nature. Jillian was selected as the May artist and was in the park from May 9-302022. For her public program, she set up a papermaking station for the public to come make their own paper on Wildflower Weekend. She used shredded paper blended with water and visitors were able to use her papermaking tools to go through the process and watch their paper dry in the sun to take home with them. This was enjoyed by people of all ages. See more of Jillian’s work here: Frogsong Press Sandy Kessler Kaminski – Sketch Artist/Drawing Sandy believes in the power of art to transform individuals and communities. She is influenced by the world around us. A classically trained artist, she has integrated contemporary materials and processes into her work. As a result, she is able to make thoughtful, interesting, and exciting works including long lasting exterior paintings, pastels and sculpture. Over the past decade she has used an approach to public art that is both reflective of the people involved in its creation and inclusive of the viewer. Sandy was selected as the July artist and was in the park from July 15 –August 52022. Sandy had two programs in the park. One was with the SNPT and their donor’s and the other was with two separate youth groups that were visiting the park. One of these groups was called Elk Hill School and the other was called Art 180. It was a wonderful and successful program that engaged the youth who were able to learn a little bit about Sandy and her processes as an artist. See more of Sandy’s work here: Sandy Kessler Kaminski Ken Heyman – Plein Air Painter Ken relishes the pleasure of painting. He prefers plein air painting, the act of painting outdoors, for the simple purity of the experience. Working directly on site in nature to capture the essence of the landscape forces spontaneity into the process; including the changing sun, wind, and weather. Ken layers the color on thickly with a palette knife or big brush, focusing his attention to the elements of color theory and composition. He likes to work fast, and transfer the physical energy to the canvas with visible brush strokes and motion. Ken was selected as the August artist and was in the park from August 15 –September 62022. For Ken’s public program, he staged himself at an overlook while he painted and talked about the process and methods of Plein Air painting to those who came to enjoy the views and Ken’s insight. See more of Ken’s work here: Hey Man Art – Paintings, Art Gallery, Oil Painting Jaime Barks – Painter Jaime grew up roaming the foothills of the Smoky Mountains. Those countless hours she spent wandering the woods as a child are evident in her work which is based on places she has been. Jaime uses a combination of reference images and sketches done on location to capture the feeling of a place. Jaime was selected as the September artist and was in the park from September 7-292022. For her public program, Jaime presented up at Dickey Ridge Visitor Center about her process of painting while out on the trail, and shared a little bit about Leave No Trace principles and tips and tricks for hiking alone. See more of Jaime’s work here: The Art of Jaime Barks Carl Johnson – Photographer Carl practices photography, and set a goal to explore the Park with his camera as much as possible to get a sense of place. Nancy Hershberger, Fiber Artist – May As a former Artist-in-Residence at the Great Smoky Mountains National Park and Manassas National Battlefield Park, Nancy says that “artists are influenced by their surroundings and experiences. I never miss an opportunity to encourage artists to look at our National Parks from a different perspective; that of an artist-in-residence. Shenandoah National Park is one of the most hauntingly beautiful places in the country. I have no doubt that it will influence my work for years to come.” See more of Nancy’s work here: Nancy Hershberger Fiber Artist Danielle Austen, Fine Art Photographer – July Danielle Austen is an award-winning fine art photographer specializing in intimate portraits of the environment. She has been photographing for over 30 years, professionally for over 20 years. Danielle received her BFA from Cornell University and worked as a graphic designer for seven years before attending the master’s program at the Syracuse University’s S.I. Newhouse School of Public Communications, in photojournalism. She has been selected in seven Artist-in-Residency programs across the United States including Shenandoah National Park, Rocky Mountain NP, Great Smoky Mountains NP, twice at Acadia NP, Everglades NP, and was a Full Fellowship recipient at the Vermont Studio Center. See more of Danielle’s work here: Danielle Austen New Jersey Fine Art Photographer Michelle Stitzlein, Sculptor – August Michelle creates sculptures with found items that resonate with fortune and abundance, but that also address ideas of economic stress and natural depletion. Utilizing materials she scavenges and collects, her work is mindful of the resourcefulness and bootstrap mentality of farmers, homemakers and the depression era, as well as folk artists and craftsmen in developing countries. Her work and imagery venerate imperfections found in the handmade, the patched/mended and secondhand and pays deference to nature and habitat enduring continual loss and destruction due to the industrial pursuit of new and raw resources. See more of Michelle’s work here: Michelle Stitzlein (artgrange.com) Nathan Cornelius, Musician/Composer – October Nathan Cornelius pursues a multifaceted career in performance, composition, and teaching. Trained as a classical guitarist, he has received competition first prizes for his solo, concerto, and chamber performances on guitar. His performances and research focus on guitar music of the 20th and 21st centuries, exploring how modern and postmodern composers articulate cultural conceptions of time and memory through intertextuality with works of the Western tradition. As a composer, Cornelius searches for the hidden beauty in sounds both fresh and familiar, opening listeners’ ears to new colors, textures, and ultimately, new ways of hearing. See more of Nathan’s work here: Nathan Cornelius – Guitarist / Composer / Educator Patrick Faile, Fine Art – Unfortunately, Paul was unable to participate in the program at the last minute due to a water pipe bursting in his house. See his work here: Patrick Faile Fine Art In 2020, over 375 applications for the 2020 Artist-in-Residence program were received. 5 Artists were selected: Because of Jennifer’s experience living in a variety of environments, including several major northeast cities and thru hiking the entire Appalachian Trail in 2003, she finds that the focus of her printmaking and photography is about observing landscape, land use and the conflict within those places. What is noticed when moving through a landscape or place is important for her and she make images based on that experience. jlmanzella.net Harlan is considered one of the world’s premier contemporary enamelists. Over the span of his forty-year career, he has appeared in dozens of exhibitions and has his work in the collections of the Victoria & Albert Museum in London; the National Gallery of Australia in Canberra, the Shippo Art Museum in Ama-City, Japan; the Renwick Gallery at the Smithsonian Institution in Washington, DC. As an enamelist who melds time-honored techniques, Harlan has transformed expectations of the medium. www.harlanwbutt.com Susan’s contemporary landscape paintings are created from observations about the environment and her personal experiences related to the changing local landscape. Her observations of nature, and related research are an integral part of her artistic practice and serve as the foundation for the artwork that she makes. SusanDanko.com Paul began burning and scorching wood and paper to create his images in the early 1990’s. Since then, his fire drawings have been shown in group and solo exhibitions in art centers, museums and galleries nationally. His current work evolved as a result of his conscious effort to embrace art historical traditions while rejecting the traditional processes. paulchojnowski.com Cody’s work concentrates on abandoned farms, crumbling homes, neglected churches, aging cemeteries, forgotten cars and other objects, set within the vastness of the southwestern landscape, which he expresses as a narrative of “the western abandon.” He works almost entirely with infrared film, using a range of different cameras, including a 4 x 5, a hand-made pinhole, and a 6 x 17 panoramic. Shooting pictures in the early-morning or late-afternoon with a black-and-white infrared film is what he enjoys best because of the dreamy effect and the length of the exposure times required to get a great shot. https://modfrontier.com/artists/cody-brothers/ This program was impacted by the Covid-19 pandemic in two ways. First, Harlan Butt was originally scheduled to be the artist-in-residence during the month of May, but the park and all lodging was closed. Fortunately, we were able to reschedule Harlan for September. The second impact was that the public programs were adjusted to reflect the situation. This turned out to provide an interesting opportunity to film the artists and host watch party events with the artists which reached an audience in the thousands and provide greater publicity for the artist and the artist-in-residence program. Susan Danko hosted a private in-person event for the donors and board members of the Shenandoah National Park Trust which was held outdoors and limited to 12 people to meet the requirements of the park’s Covid-19 safety plan. May Artist- Julie Elkins received a BFA in Craft and Material Studies from Virginia Commonwealth University in 2002. She first gained recognition for her porcelain sculptures exhibited at SOFA Chicago in 2003. From there, her work made its way into permanent collections of The Mint Museum of Craft and Design, The Fuller Craft Museum, and the Kamn Teapot Foundation. Working with porcelain, Julie builds miniature worlds filled with layers of details. The imagery she gravitates towards includes places, people or events in her surroundings that have a particular, haunting, beauty or intangible mystery. She studies the intricate entanglements of history and the physical residue of the inescapable reality of the passing of time. https://www.julieelkins.com/ July Artist- Lisa Lebofsky is a nomadic plein air painter, collaborating with nature and people. Lisa finds inspiration by traveling extensively, often to remote parts of the world, in order to immerse herself in different environments and cultures. To a great extent, these personal interactions inform what areas and what subject matter is ultimately painted. Currently, Lisa is in the midst of a multi-year mission to travel around North America painting en plein air, to better know the changes happening in our environment and the people it is affecting. https://www.lisalebofsky.com/ August Artist– In her sweeping abstract paintings, Katherine Tzu-Lan Mann merges traditional Chinese and Japanese ink painting techniques with an approach rooted in Western abstractionism. Katherine received her BA from Brown University and MFA from Maryland Institute College for the Art. She has attended many other residencies including at the Virginia Center for the Creative Arts. https://www.katherinemann.net/ September Artist – Matt Venuti is an internationally acclaimed singer-songwriter who accompanies himself playing rare and captivating melodic-percussive acoustic instruments developed in Switzerland, as well as the highly expressive and dynamic Electronic Valve Instrument (EVI) wind-synthesizer that he layers with a looper. Matt’s a longtime bandleader of The Venusians with deep musical roots in San Francisco. He’s also a poet and storyteller with a history of performing at major festivals, events and diverse venues throughout the Americas and abroad, including the Main TED conference and 4 different TEDx conferences. https://www.mattvenuti.com/ October Artist – Jerry Ginsberg strives to capture the very best of Nature’s beauty through photography and has photographed all 61 of the National Parks with his medium format camera. His photographs have been published in hundreds of magazines, books and travel catalogs including Backpacker, Sierra, National Parks, the Smithsonian and Outdoor Photographer. https://www.jerryginsberg.com/index


--- [Superintendent Jim Northup Archives - Augusta Free Press] ---
4 captures 08 Dec 2022 - 13 Dec 2024 Nov DEC Jan 13 2023 2024 2025 success fail About this capture COLLECTED BY Collection: Common Crawl Web crawl data from Common Crawl. TIMESTAMPS The Wayback Machine - http://web.archive.org/web/20241213052822/https://augustafreepress.com/tag/superintendent-jim-northup/ The Latest Local News Virginia News U.S. News Sports News AFP on YouTube Commercial The Latest Local News Virginia News U.S. News Sports News AFP on YouTube Commercial Main menu Commercial Casino Main menu Casino Real Money Online Casino Sites Main menu Real Money Online Casino Sites Live Casino Brand New Online Casinos High Payout Casinos $10 Deposit Casinos No KYC Casinos Fastest Payout Casinos Best Online Casinos on Reddit Lucky Block Review State Casino Guides Main menu State Casino Guides Alabama Online Casinos Arizona Online Casinos Arkansas Online Casinos California Online Casinos Colorado Online Casinos Costa Rica Online Casinos Delaware Online Casinos Florida Online Casinos Georgia Online Casinos Hawaii Online Casinos Idaho Online Casinos Illinois Online Casinos Iowa Online Casinos Indiana Online Casinos Kentucky Online Casinos Maine Online Casinos Maryland Online Casinos Connecticut Online Casinos Massachusetts Online Casinos Michigan Online Casinos Minnesota Online Casinos Mississippi Online Casinos Montana Online Casinos Missouri Online Casinos Nebraska Online Casinos Nevada Online Casinos New Hampshire Online Casinos New Mexico Online Casinos Kansas Online Casinos New York Online Casinos North Carolina Online Casinos Louisiana Online Casinos North Dakota Online Casinos Ohio Online Casinos Oklahoma Online Casinos Oregon Online Casinos Pennsylvania Online Casinos Rhode Island Online Casinos Tennessee Online Casinos South Dakota Online Casinos Utah Online Casinos Texas Online Casinos Vermont Online Casinos Virginia Online Casinos Washington Online Casinos West Virginia Online Casinos Wisconsin Online Casinos South Carolina Online Casinos Washington D.C. Online Casinos Wyoming Online Casinos Best Offshore Casinos Best Casino Apps Main menu Best Casino Apps Blackjack Casino Apps Slots Apps State Casino Apps Main menu State Casino Apps California Casino Apps Indiana Casino Apps Michigan Casino Apps Pennsylvania Casino Apps Ohio Casino Apps Virginia Casino Apps Washington Casino Apps Washington D.C. Casino Apps Online Casino Bonuses Main menu Online Casino Bonuses Wild Casino Bonus Codes Ignition Casino Bonus Codes Slots.lv Casino Bonus Codes Cafe Casino Bonus Codes Punt Casino Bonus Codes 7bit Casino Bonus Codes mBit Casino Bonus Codes EveryGame Casino Bonus Codes BetOnline Casino Bonus Codes Las Atlantis Casino Bonus Codes Super Slots Casino Bonus Codes Red Dog Casino Bonus Codes MyB Casino Bonus Codes Xbet Casino Bonus Codes Bovada Casino Bonus Codes BC.Game Casino Bonus Codes Planet 7 Casino Bonus Codes Casino Reload Bonuses Casino Sign-Up Bonuses Bitcoin Casino Bonuses Free Spins Casino Casino Games Main menu Casino Games Online Blackjack Casinos Live Blackjack Online Online Casino Roulette Best Online Slots Real Money Online Video Poker Banking Main menu Banking Bitcoin Baccarat New Bitcoin Casinos Vanilla Visa Casinos State Lottery Casinos Main menu State Lottery Casinos Illinois Lottery Online Virginia Lottery Online Betting Main menu Betting Best Offshore Sportsbooks Best Crypto Sportsbooks Costa Rica Sportsbooks State Betting Guides Main menu State Betting Guides Alabama Sports Betting Arizona Sports Betting Arkansas Sports Betting California Sports Betting Colorado Sports Betting Connecticut Sports Betting Florida Sports Betting Delaware Sports Betting Georgia Sports Betting Idaho Sports Betting Iowa Sports Betting Illinois Sports Betting Indiana Sports Betting Kansas Sports Betting Kentucky Sports Betting Louisiana Sports Betting Maine Sports Betting Maryland Sports Betting Massachusetts Sports Betting Michigan Sports Betting Minnesota Sports Betting Mississippi Sports Betting Missouri Sports Betting Montana Sports Betting Nevada Sports Betting New Hampshire Sports Betting New Jersey Sports Betting New Mexico Sports Betting New York Sports Betting North Dakota Sports Betting Ohio Sports Betting Oklahoma Sports Betting Oregon Sports Betting Rhode Island Sports Betting Pennsylvania Sports Betting South Carolina Sports Betting Nebraska Sports Betting South Dakota Sports Betting Tennessee Sports Betting Texas Sports Betting Utah Sports Betting North Carolina Sports Betting Vermont Sports Betting Virginia Sports Betting Washington Sports Betting West Virginia Sports Betting Washington D.C. Sports Betting Wisconsin Sports Betting Wyoming Sports Betting Best Online Sportsbooks Main menu Best Online Sportsbooks UFC Betting Sites NFL Betting Sites Sportsbook Promo Codes Main menu Sportsbook Promo Codes Jazz Sportsbook Bonus Codes Bovada Sportsbook Bonus Code Everygame Sportsbook Bonus Code GTbets Sportsbook Bonus Codes Sportsbetting.ag Sportsbook Bonus Code XBet Sportsbook Bonus Codes MyBookie Sportsbook Bonus Codes BetUS Sportsbook Bonus Codes Betanysports Sportsbook Bonus Codes BUSR Sportsbook Bonus Codes BetOnline Sportsbook Promo Codes Odds Picks Best Sports Betting Apps State Betting Apps Main menu State Betting Apps Arizona Betting Apps Alaska Betting Apps California Betting Apps Connecticut Betting Apps Colorado Betting Apps Delaware Betting Apps Florida Betting Apps Georgia Betting Apps Hawaii Betting Apps Idaho Betting Apps Iowa Betting Apps Illinois Betting Apps Kansas Betting Apps Kentucky Betting Apps Louisiana Betting Apps Massachusetts Betting Apps Michigan Betting Apps Minnesota Betting Apps Mississippi Betting Apps Montana Betting Apps Nebraska Betting Apps Nevada Betting Apps New Mexico Betting Apps New Hampshire Betting Apps North Carolina Betting Apps Oklahoma Betting Apps Ohio Betting Apps Oregon Betting Apps Pennsylvania Betting Apps Rhode Island Betting Apps South Dakota Betting Apps Texas Betting Apps Tennessee Betting Apps Utah Betting Apps Vermont Betting Apps North Dakota Betting Apps Washington Betting Apps Washington D.C. Betting Apps Best Betting Sites UK Horse Racing Main menu Horse Racing State Horse Racing Guides Main menu State Horse Racing Guides Alabama Horse Racing Alabama Horse Racing Arkansas Horse Racing California Horse Racing Connecticut Horse Racing Florida Horse Racing Georgia Horse Racing Idaho Horse Racing Indiana Horse Racing Kentucky Horse Racing Louisiana Horse Racing Maryland Horse Racing New Mexico Horse Racing Ohio Horse Racing Tennessee Horse Racing Washington Horse Racing Delaware Horse Racing Kansas Horse Racing Washington D.C. Horse Racing Gambling Main menu Gambling Best Online Gambling Sites Best Crypto Gambling Sites Best Offshore Gambling Sites Best Bitcoin Gambling Sites Best Reddit Gambling Sites State Gambling Guides Main menu State Gambling Guides Alabama Online Gambling Alaska Online Gambling California Online Gambling Colorado Online Gambling Maine Online Gambling Massachusetts Online Gambling Missouri Online Gambling North Carolina Online Gambling North Dakota Online Gambling South Carolina Online Gambling Tennessee Gambling Utah Online Gambling Virginia Gambling Washington Online Gambling Poker Main menu Poker Online Poker Sites Poker Reviews Main menu Poker Reviews Ignition Poker Review Bovada Poker Review BetOnline Poker Review State Poker Guides Main menu State Poker Guides Alabama Online Poker Alaska Online Poker Arkansas Online Poker Arizona Online Poker California Online Poker Colorado Online Poker Connecticut Online Poker Delaware Online Poker Florida Online Poker Idaho Online Poker Georgia Online Poker Iowa Online Poker Illinois Online Poker Indiana Online Poker Kansas Online Poker Kentucky Online Poker Louisiana Online Poker Maine Online Poker Maryland Online Poker Massachusetts Online Poker Michigan Online Poker Minnesota Online Poker Mississippi Online Poker Missouri Online Poker Montana Online Poker Nebraska Online Poker Nevada Online Poker New Hampshire Online Poker New Mexico Online Poker New York Online Poker New York Online Poker North Carolina Online Poker North Dakota Online Poker Ohio Online Poker Oklahoma Poker Oregon Poker Oregon Poker Pennsylvania Online Poker South Carolina Poker South Dakota Online Poker Tennessee Online Poker Utah Poker Vermont Poker Virginia Online Poker Washington Online Poker Washington D.C. Online Poker Wisconsin Poker Wyoming Poker Best Bitcoin Poker Sites Best Reddit Online Poker Sites Our Team Contact Us Project Mental Health Privacy Policy USA Countries Close USA Canada Spanish USA Malaysia Singapore UK Indonesia UAE Philippines Deutschland Korea France Italy Japan Russia Turkey Search Home Superintendent Jim Northup Superintendent Jim Northup Local News Shenandoah National Park seeks public input on proposed chronic wasting disease management plan Contributors November 11, 2014 Local News Shenandoah National Park to implement night closures of Skyline Drive during hunting season Contributors October 16, 2014 Local News Shenandoah National Park completes Rock Outcrop Management Plan Contributors September 26, 2014 Local News Shenandoah National Park selects Sandy Long for Artist-in-Residence program Contributors September 15, 2014 Local News Shenandoah National Park expands Neighbor Appreciation Day Contributors June 14, 2014 We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it. Ok arrow up Scroll Up


--- [Shenandoah National Park announces artists selected for 2023 Artist-in ...] ---
News Release | Subscribe | What is RSS | Contact: Leah Cawthorn, (540) 999-3500 x 3182 LURAY, VA – Shenandoah National Park has selected five artists for its annual Artist-in-Residence program. The program gives artists of all types an opportunity to creatively explore Shenandoah’s natural and cultural resources and pursue their artistic discipline. Each artist will spend three weeks in Shenandoah and will then create an original piece reflecting the experience to donate to the park. Artists also present public programs about their art and their residencies. Shenandoah’s Artist-in-Residence program is supported by generous donations to the Shenandoah National Park Trust. Shenandoah is one of numerous National Park Service sites across the country that have Artist-in-Residence programs to inspire artists to create and share art that not only motivates and encourages millions of people to visit and explore, but also helps build awareness and develop stewardship of these beautiful public lands. The following artists have been selected for Shenandoah’s 2023 Artist-in-Residence program: Sonya Lara – Sonya is a poet and essayist. She received her BA in Creative Writing from the University of Wisconsin-Madison and her MFA in Poetry from Virginia Tech. Her work has appeared or is forthcoming in The Pinch, X-R-A-Y Lit, Shenandoah, Ninth Letter, AGNI, The Los Angeles Review, The Acentos Review, and elsewhere. Sonya was selected as the May artist and will be in the park from May 1-22. For more information, please visit sonyalara.com. Nina Grauley – Nina is a Science Illustrator, artist, and enthusiastic amateur naturalist. Nina believes that paying attention to the particularities of a community -- whether it is made up of plants or people -- is an act of love. She very much has a researcher’s heart, and loves exploring the world and asking questions. Her work centers around the idea that looking closely at nature can teach us more about what it means to be human, and how we can begin the process of healing together. Nina was selected as the July artist and will be in the park from July 10-31. For more information about Nina visit her website at https://ninagrauley.com/. Paul Atkinson - Paul’s photography celebrates not only the natural landscape, but also explores the human landscape from a detached examination of what is left behind. He employs the assumed truthfulness of the camera to present a reality that frequently transcends the limits of human visual perception, through both night photography and by including light from the near-infrared spectrum. Through his art, and this residency, he hopes to share with others the beauty and wonder of the night sky, while promoting awareness of the growing threat of light pollution. He resides in Raleigh, North Carolina, and is an advocate for dark night skies with the International Dark-Sky Association. Paul was selected as the August artist and will be in the park from July 31 - August 21. For more information about Paul visit his website at www.patkinsonphoto.com. Ines Sun – Ines is a multidisciplinary visual artist who has harmoniously immersed herself in the crossroads of East and West. The fluidity of interplaying culturally and aesthetically shows in her paintings and installation projects. Her art training started with New York School Abstraction. Later, she went to the China Academy of Art in China to master Chinese calligraphy and brush painting. While living in China for 18 months, she accumulated a substantial body of work. Her strokes of paint flow like Abstraction Expressionist, yet with the aesthetic and discipline of Chinese brush painting. Practicing Chinese calligraphy is a family tradition and naturally she uses it as a body and mind exercise before she paints. In the accumulation of years of practice, not only her command of brush grew, so did her ability to focus. During the pandemic lock down, she voluntarily shared her calligraphy practice to help friends and strangers find emotional stability. She was awarded a storefront grant from Chashama in June 2021, where she ran calligraphy workshops. She is also a recipient of Brooklyn Arts Council for Su-CASA Grant in 2022, which allows Sun to share her joy of writing with seniors. These workshops have formed a supportive community through calligraphy. Her memoir, 5.4 Luck was published in Taiwan in 2015. She lives and works in Brooklyn. Ines was chosen as the September artist and will be in the park from September 5-26. For more information about Ines, visit www.inessun.com. Jill Haley- Jill is a musician who has been composing, recording, and performing instrumental music inspired by the natural environment. She has spent the last several years exploring our National Parks and writing music about the inspiration she finds in these wondrous places. She has released several recordings about various parks such as Glacier and Acadia and numerous others. She also creates videos of the images that inspired the compositions and shares them in concert and on her YouTube Channel. Jill was chosen as the October artist and will be in the park from October 2-23. For more information about Jill, please visit https://jillhaley.com/. Shenandoah National Park Trust is the official philanthropic partner of the park and provides financial support to the Artist-in-Residence program. To learn more about how you can support this effort, please visit Shenandoah National Park Trust at www.snptrust.org - www.nps.gov/shen - About the National Park Service: Since 1916, the National Park Service has been entrusted with the care of America’s more than 400 national parks. With the help of volunteers and partners, we safeguard these special places and share their stories with millions of people every year. Learn more at www.nps.gov. Last updated: April 17, 2023


--- [Shenandoah National Park Announces 2025 Artists-In-Residence ...] ---
The Shenandoah National Park Trust has proudly supported the Artists-In-Residence program since 2013 through generous donations, and we are proud to continue doing so through the program’s 13th year. Shenandoah is one of many National Park Service sites across the country that have AIR programs to inspire artists to create and share art that not only motivates and encourages millions of people to visit and explore but also helps build awareness and develop stewardship of these beautiful public lands. The following artists have been selected for Shenandoah’s 2025 Artist-in-Residence program: Kris Grenier – Artist and long-distance hiker Kris Grenier explores the profound connection between identity and environment by interpreting landscapes through two-dimensional, 100% wool feltings. Known on the trail as “Rainbow Dash,” Grenier has logged nearly 10,000 miles in the backcountry, including a thru-hike of the Appalachian Trail that led her to Shenandoah National Park. She earned a Bachelor of Arts in Environmental Studies and views her artistic role as more than just visual interpretation—she aims to inspire a conservation ethos in those who engage with her work. As a juried artist in the Kentucky Crafted Program, Grenier earned a 2022 Emerging Artist Grant from the Kentucky Arts Council and has presented her work in solo exhibitions across the Ohio Valley. During her residency, she will create woolen portraits of wildflowers in the park, celebrating the small wonders that surround us. Kris was selected as the May artist and will be in the park from May 9 to May 30. Michael Bidun – Michael is a South Florida-based nature and wildlife photographer. He captures fleeting moments that often go unseen, such as a bear shaking off water after a salmon hunt or delicate light illuminating a dragonfly’s wings. Drawing inspiration from the extraordinary in the ordinary, Michael uses his photographs to encourage people to care about what they don’t—or can’t—see, often drawing parallels between animal behavior and everyday human experiences. Collectors have acquired his work, local exhibitions have featured it, and he has earned notable recognition in the South Florida art scene. In 2025, he received awards including “Best in Photography” at the Pinecrest Gardens Art & Design Fair and “Artist of Note” at South Miami Art Fest. Michael was selected as the June artist and will be in the park from June 9 to June 30. Nicki Allen – Nicki is a fiber artist who works with fabric, dyes, needle and thread. For over two decades, she has chosen quilting and fiber arts as her primary medium. While she began with traditional quilt-making, her practice has evolved to include contemporary techniques and artistic expression. Nature serves as her main source of inspiration—its patterns, textures, and rhythms deeply influence her work. She also explores the connection between land and culture, examining how place shapes identity and fuels creativity. Traveling across the country and spending time in several national parks have profoundly shaped her artistic journey. National and international quilt exhibitions have juried in Nicki’s work, and various publications have featured it. A lifelong learner, she constantly refines her techniques and shares her passion through teaching and lectures. Nicki was selected as the July artist and will be in the park from July 11 to August 1. Chelsie Ruiz Rivera – Chelsie is an author, backpacker and amateur naturalist. Originally from Kentucky, she looks forward to reconnecting with her Appalachian roots in Shenandoah National Park, offering nature writing workshops to park visitors while working on a novel about the Appalachian Trail. Chelsie writes both fiction and nonfiction, exploring themes of nature, otherness and belonging in the South. She coauthored “How to Live in a Chaotic Climate” and earned a Master of Fine Arts and Bachelor of Arts in Creative Writing from Georgia College and State University and Agnes Scott College, respectively. Chelsie was selected as the August artist and will be in the park from August 4 to August 25. Dani Davis – Dani is a printmaker and plant ecologist based in the panhandle of Florida. She grew up exploring the piedmont forests of Georgia, where she fell in love with the flora and ecologies of the Southeast. That early connection continues to inspire her as she studies the interwoven relationships between human and natural systems. As an artist, Dani focuses on reimagining the deep connectivity between these two interdependent worlds, viewing them as intrinsically linked and inseparable. Through block printing, she investigates how fragmentation, species extinction and natural disasters disrupt these connections and reshape entire ecosystems. Dani was selected as the September artist and will be in the park from September 12 to October 3. Laura Wortman and Kagey Parrish – Virginia natives Laura and Kagey of The Honey Dewdrops began touring in 2009 and have called Baltimore, Maryland home for over 10 years. Throughout their two-decade partnership, the Dewdrops have highlighted the power and intimacy of two voices and two instruments in both live performances and recordings. Laura and Kagey constantly push the boundaries of their experimental folk sound—blending electric and acoustic guitars, mandolin and clawhammer banjo—while weaving in tight vocal harmonies. They remain committed to deepening their understanding of the world through songwriting and music. Laura and Kagey were selected as the October artists and will be here from October 8 to October 29.
