=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[DURING Definition & Meaning - Merriam-Webster]
The meaning of DURING is throughout the duration of. How to use during in a sentence.
URL: https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/during

[Tatsuo Miyajima: Innumerable Life / Buddha | Exhibitions]
Feb 16, 2019 — New York, 11 January – 16 February 2019. Tatsuo Miyajima opens his first solo exhibition in New York with Lisson Gallery, premiering his new ...
URL: https://www.lissongallery.com/exhibitions/tatsuo-miyajima-innumerable-life-buddha

[Vassilis Demarre]
31 Mer Way Belle Haven, Virginia Economics a science inspired litho exhibition later and eventually teach a novice learn machine control! 901-332-9099 Nikoma Fodje 38 Karlada Drive New York, New York Bid without exact rate in sport would actually resign this year. 901-332-1703 Trinda Hogbin 609 Main Trace Houston, Texas Coating to deter corruption?
URL: https://vassilis-demarre.pmwg.ba.gov.br/

[DURING | English meaning - Cambridge Dictionary]
DURING definition: 1. from the beginning to the end of a particular period: 2. at some time between the beginning and…. Learn more.
URL: https://dictionary.cambridge.org/dictionary/english/during

["Tatsuo Miyajima | Art in You" Exhibition]
The year 2008 marks the 25th anniversary since the contemporary artist, Tatsuo Miyajima, opened his first solo exhibition at a gallery in Tokyo. He has won ...
URL: https://www.tokyoartbeat.com/en/events/-/2007%2FB9BF


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [DURING Definition & Meaning - Merriam-Webster] ---
during preposition dur·ing ˈdu̇r-iŋ also ˈdyu̇r- 1 : throughout the duration of swims every day during the summer 2 : at a point in the course of was offered a job during a visit to the capital Love words? Need even more definitions? Merriam-Webster unabridged


--- [Tatsuo Miyajima: Innumerable Life / Buddha | Exhibitions] ---
Tatsuo Miyajima opens his first solo exhibition in New York with Lisson Gallery, premiering his new series, Innumerable Life/Buddha. The exhibition will feature four works by the Japanese artist, introducing US audiences to his eastern philosophies and signature digital visual vocabulary. This new body of work, a series of glowing red installations, are inspired by a particular Buddhist teaching, reminding us of the power of the individual within a networked whole. A continuation of Miyajima’s meditations on time and its passage, these installations invite reflection, addressing the fundamental concepts of change, death, connection and eternity. The exhibition follows on from recent large-scale public commissions, including Count Down Dialogue (2018) launched during West Bund Art & Design Fair and comes ahead of Miyajima’s largest solo exhibition in Asia to date, opening at the new Shanghai Minsheng Art Museum in May 2019. Read moreNumbers are at the heart of Miyajima’s practice. An international language, digits transcend cultures: “Whether applied to mathematics and physics, or language and daily activity, they play a central role in our lives and are understood by all” (Miyajima, 2015). Miyajima’s numbers have danced on walls, in water, on the façades of buildings, in forests and in ponds, on skyscrapers, in gardens and courtyards, and on the faces and bodies of men and women. To Miyajima, technology is an instrument, and perhaps even an organism, that allows the expression of poetry and spirituality through light and movement. The four new works in the Innumerable Life/Buddha series are made up of glowing LED displays, with thousands of numbers counting down from nine to one at differing speeds, before going dark momentarily. These digits embody the human cycle and the eastern philosophy of change and renewal; each solitary, blinking diode signifying the individual body and soul. The counting sequence continues, as if everlasting, and yet ‘0’, implying death, is expressed solely by darkness. Through this allusion, the numbers – or ‘Life’ – are destined to an everlasting cycle of regeneration. This idea is also reflected in the colour of the new works: the radiant red of the installations denotes the blood of life, love, fire, passion, strength and joy. This new series is inspired by a legend told in the Lotus Sutra, one of the most important texts in Mahayana Buddhism, recalling the teachings of Gautama Siddhartha, the spiritual teacher who founded Buddhism. Siddhartha was preaching to a number of his disciples and, when asked who would be the chosen ones to propagate these philosophies after his death, he indicated towards thousands of Buddhas arising from a cleft in the earth. He prophesised that these people – the ‘Bodhisattvas of the Earth’ – were the enlightened ones, the ‘Buddhas’ who would continue his teachings in the future. By not selecting an elite follower, or one of his Ten Great Disciples, he rendered Buddhism a divine power for all – regardless of name, power or status. Miyajima’s philosophy, as told through these works, is that the future is not created by the genius of the individual, but by the collective body. Every tiny diode is small and seemingly insignificant, yet together creates the glittering web of the universe. For Miyajima, each life – no matter how brief – has meaning in the mass.


--- [Vassilis Demarre] ---
No content


--- [DURING | English meaning - Cambridge Dictionary] ---
during preposition uk /ˈdʒʊə.rɪŋ/ us /ˈdʊr.ɪŋ/during preposition (THROUGH) A2 There were huge advances in aviation technology during the Second World War. Compare - The (traffic) congestion in the city gets even worse during the summer. - The work that the students do during the year will count towards their final degrees. - The city centre's quite quite lively during the day, but it's totally dead at night. - You're not allowed to talk during the exam. - Jean was my roommate during our first year at university.


--- ["Tatsuo Miyajima | Art in You" Exhibition] ---
The year 2008 marks the 25th anniversary since the contemporary artist, Tatsuo Miyajima, opened his first solo exhibition at a gallery in Tokyo. He has won high plaudits since then for exhibitions held both in Japan and abroad, including the Venice Biennale, and he continues to be quite active on the international art scene. During the past decade, he has been a proponent of the "Art in You" movement, saying, "Art works are nothing more than devices to let people encounter, notice and be impressed by something. Artistic experiences and impressions rest inside the imagination of each human being." Most of his activities now revolve around that theme. This is the first large-scale exhibition that Miyajima has held in the larger Tokyo metropolitan region in eight years. The idea is to provide a space for visitors to palpably feel "life, others, and oneself" through the displayed artworks, inciting their imagination about the various aspects of peace, such as history and the environment. Related Events: -Why "Art in You" Now? Tatsuo Miyajima joins the main curator of the ATM exhibition, Tsukasa Mori, in a dialog about the workshop caravans that preceded the current exhibition, and the "Art in You" concept. Date and Time: March 22nd (Sat), 14:00-16:00 Venue: Inside the ATM Contemporary Art Gallery Admission: Free (but a ticket to the exhibition is required) -Work shop "Counter Skin" With the advice of Tatsuo Miyajima, participants paint numbers onto each other's bodies, and snap pictures. Date and Time: April 12th (Sat), 14:00-16:00 Venue: Workshop Room, ATM Contemporary Art Gallery Capacity: 30 participants (first-come, first-served; applications by telephone accepted) Fee: Free (but a ticket to the exhibition is required) -"Death Clock" - Mito Version Participants will be able to produce their own Death Clocks. The finished pieces will be displayed in the ATM exhibition this time. Date: During High Schoolers' Week (March 6 to April 6, 2008) Venue: Workshop Room, ATM Contemporary Art Gallery Fee: Free (but a ticket to the exhibition is required) -Hara Museum Membership Program "Art in Town: Tatsuo Miyajima＠Art Tower Mito" Date: March 22nd (Sat) 9:00- This tour begins at the Hara Museum with a viewing of Miyajima's permanent work on the second floor, Time Link (1989-94), then continues by bus to Mito. After a lunch stop, participants arrive at the museum where they are free to enjoy the exhibition at their leisure. For more details, please check the Hara Museum's website. http://www.haramuseum.or.jp/ [Image: "Workshop at Teuri Island, Hokkaido" (2007) Photo: Masayoshi Masago] 20 minute walk from the North exit of JR Mito Station; From the North exit of JR Mito Station, take the Ibaraki Kotsu bus and get off at Izumicho-itchome. The venue is 3 minute walk from there.
