=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Yayoi Kusama: 1945 to Now - Guggenheim Museum Bilbao]
This exhibition focuses on the existential questions that drive Kusama's creative explorations. Through paintings, drawings, sculptures, installations, and archival materials documenting her happenings and performances, the show offers an in-depth survey of Kusama's work from her first drawings as a teenager during World War II to her most ...
URL: https://www.guggenheim-bilbao.eus/en/exhibitions/yayoi-kusama

[Yayoi Kusama - Wikipedia]
Yayoi Kusama (草間 彌生, Kusama Yayoi; born 22 March 1929) is a Japanese contemporary artist who works primarily in sculpture and installation. She is also active in painting, performance, video art, fashion, poetry, fiction, and other arts. Her work is based in conceptual art and shows some attributes of feminism, minimalism, surrealism, art brut, pop art, and abstract expressionism, and ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yayoi_Kusama

[Yayoi Kusama, Exhibition, Multimedia, Museo Nacional Centro de Arte ...]
The work of the Japanese artist Yayoi Kusama (Matsumoto, 1929) unfolds in the international art scene that began at the end of the 1950s and is the origin ...
URL: https://www.artlimited.net/agenda/yayoi-kusama-exhibition-mixed-media-museo-nacional-centro-arte-reina-sofia-madrid/en/6459745

[YAYOI KUSAMA at Reina Sofia Museum]
May 9, 2011 — In 1965 she created the first large-scale installation, called Infinity Mirror Room – Phalli's Field. Infinity Mirrored Room – Filled with the ...
URL: https://www.metalocus.es/en/news/yayoi-kusama-reina-sofia-museum

[Yayoi Kusama: 1945 to Now at Guggenheim Bilbao (Spain) - HappenArt]
The most extensive retrospective of the artist celebrated in the last decade in Spain with nearly 200 artworks—paintings, drawings, sculptures, installations, and archive material that document her happenings and performances—the exhibition examines Kusama's work since her first drawings as a teenager, during World War II, until her most ...
URL: https://www.happenart.com/yayoi-kusama-1945-to-now/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Yayoi Kusama: 1945 to Now - Guggenheim Museum Bilbao] ---
Yayoi Kusama: 1945 to Now 06.27.2023 - 10.08.2023 “What does living a life mean? I lose myself in this thought every time I create artwork.” Yayoi Kusama. “Dissolution and accumulation; propagation and separation; particulate obliteration and unseen reverberations from the universe—these were to become the foundations of my art, and they were already taking shape at this time.” Yayoi Kusama. Japanese artist and writer Yayoi Kusama (b. 1929, Matsumoto, Nagano) is a singular figure who has been revered by art historians for her pioneering career that span multiple art movements from the 1960s to the present, and has achieved the status of a global cultural icon. Over the last seven decades, Kusama has pursued her avant-garde vision with conviction and perfected her personal aesthetic, which reflects her philosophy of life. This exhibition focuses on the existential questions that drive Kusama’s creative explorations. Through paintings, drawings, sculptures, installations, and archival materials documenting her happenings and performances, the show offers an in-depth survey of Kusama’s work from her first drawings as a teenager during World War II to her most recent immersive, mirrored installations. Organized chronologically and thematically, the show addresses six key themes that recur throughout the artist’s life: Infinity, Accumulation, Radical Connectivity, Biocosmic, Death, and Force of Life. These interrelated themes have recurred and evolved within the obsessive universe of Kusama, who has been valiantly agitating the art scene and society for decades to promote “healing of all mankind.” Galleries: 103, 105 Curated by Doryun Chong and Mika Yoshitake in collaboration with Lucía Agirre Venues: M+, Hong Kong, Guggenheim Museum Bilbao Exhibition organized by M+, Hong Kong in collaboration with the Guggenheim Museum Bilbao Yayoi Kusama Photo by Yusuke Miyazaki Courtesy of Ota Fine Arts, Victoria Miro, and David Zwirner. © YAYOI KUSAMA Virtual Tour The Exhibition Yayoi Kusama Infinity Mirrored Room - A Wish for Human Happiness Calling from Beyond the Universe, 2020 Mirrors, wood, LED lighting system, metal and acrylic panel 293.7 × 417 × 417 cm © YAYOI KUSAMA Courtesy of Ota Fine Arts The high number of visitors may affect the wait time to access this limited capacity piece


--- [Yayoi Kusama - Wikipedia] ---
Yayoi Kusama (草間 彌生, Kusama Yayoi; born 22 March 1929) is a Japanese contemporary artist who works primarily in sculpture and installation. She is also active in painting, performance, video art, fashion, poetry, fiction, and other arts. Her work is based in conceptual art and shows some attributes of feminism, minimalism, surrealism, art brut, pop art, and abstract expressionism, and is infused with autobiographical, psychological, and sexual content. She has been acknowledged as one of the most important living artists to come out of Japan, the world's top-selling female artist, and the world's most successful living artist. Her work influenced that of her contemporaries, including Andy Warhol and Claes Oldenburg.
Kusama was raised in Matsumoto, and trained at the Kyoto City University of Arts for a year in a traditional Japanese painting style called nihonga. She was inspired by American Abstract Impressionism. She moved to New York City in 1958 and was a part of the New York avant-garde scene throughout the 1960s, especially in the pop-art movement. Embracing the rise of the hippie counterculture of the late 1960s, she came to public attention when she organized a series of happenings in which naked participants were painted with brightly colored polka dots. She experienced a period in the 1970s during which her work was largely overlooked, but a revival of interest in the 1980s brought her art back into public view. Kusama has continued to create art in various museums around the world, from the 1950s onwards.
Kusama has been open about her mental health and has resided since the 1970s in a mental health facility. She says that art has become her way to express her mental problems. "I fight pain, anxiety, and fear every day, and the only method I have found that relieved my illness is to keep creating art", she told an interviewer in 2012. "I followed the thread of art and somehow discovered a path that would allow me to live."


--- [Yayoi Kusama, Exhibition, Multimedia, Museo Nacional Centro de Arte ...] ---
No content


--- [YAYOI KUSAMA at Reina Sofia Museum] ---
The show takes the visitor in a journey through time to explore, in a series of “ambients”, Kusama’s body of work and her approach to different materials and techniques —drawing, painting, collage and assemblage, installation, film, performance, edition and design—. “This exhibition in focused on the moments when she worked for the first time with specific languages that are reflected exactly as they were when they appeared and absorbed the artist’s creative energy”, says Frances Morris, curator of the exhibition. The show also includes several large-scale installations like I’m Here, But Nothing (2000), or a new depiction of infinite space, according to the Japanese artist, in Infinity Mirrored Room – Filled with the Brilliance of Life (2011), a montage specifically designed for the occasion. After the show in Spain, the exhibition will travel to other main international art centres: the Centre Pompidou in Paris (19 October 2011 – 09 January 2012), the Tate Modern in London (25 January – 27 May 2012) and the Whitney Museum in New York (June – September 2012). The Woman (La mujer), 1953. Pastel, tempera and acrylic on paper. 45,4 x 38,2 cm. The Blanton Museum (Texas, USA) Museo Nacional Centro de Arte Reina Sofía. Madrid. Dates: May, 10 – September, 12, 2011 Place: Museo Nacional Centro de Arte Reina Sofía Edificio Sabatini. 1st Floor (Sala A1) Organización: Museo Nacional Centro de Arte Reina Sofía in collaboration with Tate Modern (London) Curated by: Frances Morris Coordinated by: Gemma Bayón Itinerary:- Centre Pompidou, Paris (19-10-11 / 09-01-12) - Tate Modern, London (09-02-12 / 05-06-12) - Whitney Museum of American Art, Nueva York (June– September 2012) Related Activities: meeting about Yayoi Kusama with Frances Morris May 11, 2011, 19.30h God of the Wind (Dios del vent), 1955. Oil on canvas. 51,5 x 64 cm. © Yayoi Kusama. Exploring technique and matter: first paintings and works on paper Kusama’s first paintings show the catastrophic state in which Japan was left after World War II, not only for its apocalyptic theme but also for the improvised use of materials. Facing the impossibility of getting oil paintings, Kusama experimented with home made paint mixed with sand and used seed bags taken from her parent’s business instead of canvases. During the following years, Kusama kept on developing her techniques on paper, from which she created hundreds of works in the early 50s. She executed them using different techniques: ink, pastel, watercolours, wash and tempera, all of which give testimony of the constant exploration of shape and colour that the artist pursued. This works vary in their content, but often they include abstract shapes that evoke natural phenomena: eggs, seeds, trees and flowers.... Self-Obliteration No.2 (Auto-obliteración nº 2), 1967. Watercolor, pencil, pastel on paper photocollage. 40,4 x 50,4 cm. © Yayoi Kusama. 1960 – 1970: Infinity Net, Accumulation Sculptures and first collages In the mid 50s, Kusama began to establish bonds with the United States, until finally, in 1958, she moved to New York. Like many other artists, she struggled to survive with small resources while gradually getting to exhibit her work. At the same time, she radically transformed her pictorial positions. It was then when she started painting her famous Infinity Net, a group of large-scale canvases that openly show her creative process. The networks are composed of repeated versions of a unique and simple gesture: a subtle wrist movement by the artist, expressed through her brush like a painted arch. The constant uniformity of this gesture denotes both obsession and meditation. For her, networks and visible “points” between painted arches would become the key motifs of her personal image vocabulary. Accumulation No.2 (Acumulación nº2),1962. Sofa, fabric filler, plaster and paint. 88,9 x 223,5 x 102,2 cm Hood Musuem of Art, Dartmouth College, Hanover (New Hampshire). USA. Just when she was beginning to enjoy some recognition for her paintings both in the States and Europe, Kusama changed her tactics again and started working in her first sculptures. Rooted in the obsessive technique of Infinity Nets, Accumulation Sculptures included everyday elements, covered by a proliferation of repeated shapes. In the first examples, Kusama recovered the surface of several domestic objects like furniture, clothes and accessories with multiple fabric phalluses, stuffed and sewn. Accumulation Sculptures were shown for the first time in one of the first exhibitions of the blooming pop art movement, next to works by Andy Warhol, Claes Oldenburg, George Segal and James Rosenquist. .../... Room view, The Moment of Regeneration, 2004. Stitched fabric, polyurethane, wood and paint. Dimensions variable. Photo: Joaquín Cortés / Román Lores. Museo Nacional Centro de Arte Reina Sofia. I’m Here, but Nothing (2000) In the late 90s, after a parenthesis of almost thirty years, Kusama returned to creating large- scale installations. I’m Here, but Nothing (2000) is a darkened domestic interior with simple and anodyne accessories and furniture. The image of bourgeois stability that might arise from this scene becomes somewhat surrealistic and strange in Kusama’s installation. The fluorescent stickers that shine in the faint light cover the whole room and the furniture can be understood as a visual simplification of the artist’s hallucinating episodes. Room view. Photo: Joaquín Cortés / Román Lores. Museo Nacional Centro de Arte Reina Sofia. Late works In the last few years, Kusama has returned with renewed enthusiasm to drawing and painting. Museo Reina Sofía displays for the very first time works created between 2009 and 2010, her largest series of paintings to this day. In these pieces there is a prominent presence of visual language that reminds us of her early paintings: repeated motifs such as flowers, eyes, hieroglyph self-portrait from the side and, as usual, dots and networks. Installation view Infinity Mirrored Room filled with the Brilliance of Life, 2001. Photo: Joaquín Cortés / Román Lores. Museo Nacional Centro de Arte Reina Sofia. The experience of infinite time: Infinity Mirrored Room – Filled with the Brilliance of Life (2011) One of Kusama’s permanent obsessions is the depiction of infinite space. In her vast artistic career, the Japanese author has maintained her exploration of this field until achieving a magical effect in her Infinity Mirror Rooms. In 1965 she created the first large-scale installation, called Infinity Mirror Room – Phalli’s Field. Infinity Mirrored Room – Filled with the Brilliance of Life (2011) is the name of the montage that Kusama has designed specifically for her exhibition at Museo Reina Sofía. Visitors can enter and explore it, surrounded by their own reflection.


--- [Yayoi Kusama: 1945 to Now at Guggenheim Bilbao (Spain) - HappenArt] ---
Yayoi Kusama: 1945 to Now Guggenheim Bilbao – Jun 27 to Oct 08, 2023 Retrospective exhibition of Japanese artist and writer Yayoi Kusama (b. 1929, Matsumoto, Nagano), a singular voice recovered by the history of art and situated in the place that she deserves, turning her into a global cultural icon. During the last seven decades, Kusama has firmly chased her vanguardist vision, perfecting a unique personal aesthetic and a life-central philosophy. Her work captivates us with unlimited spaces and reflections on the natural regeneration cycles. Extensive retrospective. Yayoi Kusama narrates the artist’s life and work history, bringing to the foreground her longing for interconnectedness and the deep questions about the existence that drive her creative explorations. The most extensive retrospective of the artist celebrated in the last decade in Spain with nearly 200 artworks—paintings, drawings, sculptures, installations, and archive material that document her happenings and performances—the exhibition examines Kusama’s work since her first drawings as a teenager, during World War II, until her most recent immersive installations. Organized chronologically and thematically, the show recreates Kusama’s central themes: Infinity, Accumulation, Radical Connectivity, Biocosmic, Death, and Force of Life, an in-depth view of the obsessive universe of an artist who has been trying for decades to shake up our universe with her work “to cure all humanity.” Guggenheim Bilbao→ Avenida Abandoibarra 2 Bilbao, Spain 48001 ◊ Use our Art Geolocation App
