=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Annual Report 2019 - United Nations Volunteers]
We are proud of our 8,282 UN Volunteers who served in 54 United Nations missions, agencies, funds and programmes across the globe in 2019 – the highest number of volunteers deployed in the history of the organization.
URL: https://www.unv.org/Annual-report/Annual-Report-2019

[UNAI Quiz: International Volunteer Day | United Nations]
In 2019, 8,282 UN Volunteers served on the ground in 54 United Nations missions, agencies, funds and programmes across the globe – the highest number of volunteers deployed in the history of the ...
URL: https://www.un.org/en/academic-impact/unai-quiz-international-volunteer-day-0

[ANNUAL REPORTS - United Nations Volunteers]
We are proud of our 8,282 UN Volunteers who served in 54 United Nations missions, agencies, funds and programmes across the globe in 2019 – the highest number of volunteers deployed in the history of the organization.
URL: https://www.unv.org/annual-reports

[UNV annual report available : r/volunteer - Reddit]
In 2019, 8,282 United Nations Volunteers — the highest number of UN volunteers deployed in the history of the organization — served with 54 United Nations missions, agencies, funds and programmes.
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/volunteer/comments/hi91ob/unv_annual_report_available/

[United Nations Volunteers - Wikipedia]
In 2023 UNV deployed almost 13,000 UN Volunteers to over 56 UN partners in all regions of the world. Based in Bonn, Germany, UNV is active in around 130 countries every year.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_Nations_Volunteers


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Annual Report 2019 - United Nations Volunteers] ---
UNV Annual Report 2019 Volunteering to achieve the SDGs Words of Welcome Olivier Adam, UNV Executive Coordinator, with participants of the All-Russia Youth Educational Summer Forum, 'Terra Scientia Forum,' in Vladimirskaya ablast, Russia (UNV,2018) As I write, we are months into the global COVID-19 response. This unprecedented challenge has rallied volunteer action throughout the world. Now it is more evident than ever that volunteering is essential to the future of people and the planet. This timely reminder comes as the United Nations Secretary-General launches the Decade of Action to deliver on the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) by 2030. The United Nations Volunteers (UNV) programme continues to expand its support to the United Nations system through both advocating for volunteers worldwide and creating opportunities for qualified global citizens to contribute to United Nations efforts to achieve peace and development. We are proud of our 8,282 UN Volunteers who served in 54 United Nations missions, agencies, funds and programmes across the globe in 2019 – the highest number of volunteers deployed in the history of the organization. Each of them contributed to the achievement of the SDGs with their exceptional expertise and commitment. In addition, in the context of ongoing global digital transformation, UNV matched 13,186 global citizens to online volunteer assignments. Making our own contribution to United Nations reform, in 2019 we reached gender parity for the first time among our serving UN Volunteers, 51 percent being women. We recognize that global averages often conceal regional disparities and are pursuing our target to achieve gender parity in all countries where UN Volunteers serve. UNV continued to champion South-South and triangular cooperation. In 2019, 67 percent of international UN Volunteers were from the Global South while 3,917 national UN Volunteers served with United Nations partners in their country of origin, bringing critical local knowledge and cultural understanding to their assignments. Furthermore, the creation of two new categories of UN Volunteers, refugee and community, expanded our options for drawing local talent into the United Nations while at the same time empowering target populations. UNV’s achievements this year, which you will read about in the Report that follows, would not have been possible without strong partnerships. I thank all our partners for their continued trust and collaboration with UN Volunteers. UNV facts and figures 2019 on the ground were hosted by UN entities different professions and, as Online Volunteers, virtually worldwide United Nations Partners worldwide countries From the Global South UN Volunteers Volunteers through partnerships Volunteers for partners UNV is as strong as its partnerships. UN Volunteers deliver on sustainable development for our United Nations partners. Refer to our partnering pages for detailed information on our collaboration with key UN entity partners: https://www.unv.org/united-nations-partners . Volunteers Volunteers Volunteers Volunteers Volunteers Volunteers Volunteers Volunteers Volunteers Volunteers Volunteers Volunteers Volunteers Volunteers Volunteers Volunteers Volunteers Volunteers Volunteers Volunteers Volunteers Volunteers Volunteers Volunteers Volunteers


--- [UNAI Quiz: International Volunteer Day | United Nations] ---
International Volunteer Day (5 December) presents a unique opportunity for us all to promote volunteerism and recognize the valuable contributions of volunteers to peace and development. During the COVID-19 pandemic volunteers have been at the forefront of medical, community and societal responses. On International Volunteer Day, join us to say thank you to all the volunteers worldwide and celebrate their efforts despite all the challenges at hand. Correct! In 2019, 8,282 UN Volunteers served on the ground in 54 United Nations missions, agencies, funds and programmes across the globe – the highest number of volunteers deployed in the history of the organization. Each of them contributed to the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals with their exceptional expertise and commitment. In addition, in the context of ongoing global digital transformation, UNV matched 13,186 global citizens to online volunteer assignments. Incorrect. The correct answer is C. In 2019, 8,282 UN Volunteers served on the ground in 54 United Nations missions, agencies, funds and programmes across the globe – the highest number of volunteers deployed in the history of the organization. Each of them contributed to the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals with their exceptional expertise and commitment. In addition, in the context of ongoing global digital transformation, UNV matched 13,186 global citizens to online volunteer assignments. Correct! The 2020 International Volunteer Day campaign aims to thank volunteers for their actions and showcase the impact of volunteerism during the COVID-19 pandemic. The theme also sheds light on the volunteers’ own well-being, challenges and needs as they contribute their time and expertise to mitigate the economic, social and health impacts of the crisis. Incorrect. The correct answer is C. The 2020 International Volunteer Day campaign aims to thank volunteers for their actions and showcase the impact of volunteerism during the COVID-19 pandemic. The theme also sheds light on the volunteers’ own well-being, challenges and needs as they contribute their time and expertise to mitigate the economic, social and health impacts of the crisis. Correct! United Nations Volunteers headquarters is in Bonn, Germany. UNV has six Regional Offices in Amman (covering the Arab States), Bangkok (covering Asia and the Pacific), Dakar (covering West and Central Africa), Istanbul (covering Europe and the Commonwealth of Independent States), Nairobi (covering East and Southern Africa) and Panama City (covering Latin America and the Caribbean). The regional offices are the first entry point for partners wishing to engage with UNV. Incorrect. The correct answer is A. United Nations Volunteers headquarters is in Bonn, Germany. UNV has six Regional Offices in Amman (covering the Arab States), Bangkok (covering Asia and the Pacific), Dakar (covering West and Central Africa), Istanbul (covering Europe and the Commonwealth of Independent States), Nairobi (covering East and Southern Africa) and Panama City (covering Latin America and the Caribbean). The regional offices are the first entry point for partners wishing to engage with UNV. Correct! The UN Youth Volunteers are between 18 and 29 years old, and work with UN agencies on the frontlines of political, developmental and humanitarian operations. Volunteering is often one of the first experiences of civic engagement for young people. It is also a way to build skills for future employability and act upon issues that matter to youth, such as climate change, peace, gender equality and economic empowerment. The educational background and experience required for UN youth volunteers vary by assignment. There are many national volunteer assignments as well as online opportunities, that enables one to volunteer for the UN locally without having to relocate geographically. Incorrect. The correct answer is A. The UN Youth Volunteers are between 18 and 29 years old, and work with UN agencies on the frontlines of political, developmental and humanitarian operations. Volunteering is often one of the first experiences of civic engagement for young people. It is also a way to build skills for future employability and act upon issues that matter to youth, such as climate change, peace, gender equality and economic empowerment. The educational background and experience required for UN youth volunteers vary by assignment. There are many national volunteer assignments as well as online opportunities, that enables one to volunteer for the UN locally without having to relocate geographically. Correct! Volunteers often come directly from the communities they serve which provides them with a unique awareness of local priorities, cultural sensitivities, decision-making structures, and access. Volunteering is often scaled up during times of crisis as people respond to the more visible and immediate needs around them. The COVID-19 Strategic Preparedness and Response Plan by the World Health Organization identifies community volunteers as key stakeholders for risk communication and community engagement. They help improve disease surveillance, strengthen the health workforce, build greater trust and engagement with communities and ensure that accurate information reaches remote locations and vulnerable populations Incorrect. The correct answer is D. Volunteers often come directly from the communities they serve which provides them with a unique awareness of local priorities, cultural sensitivities, decision-making structures, and access. Volunteering is often scaled up during times of crisis as people respond to the more visible and immediate needs around them. The COVID-19 Strategic Preparedness and Response Plan by the World Health Organization identifies community volunteers as key stakeholders for risk communication and community engagement. They help improve disease surveillance, strengthen the health workforce, build greater trust and engagement with communities and ensure that accurate information reaches remote locations and vulnerable populations. Thank you for taking our quiz. Please click submit for additional resources!


--- [ANNUAL REPORTS - United Nations Volunteers] ---
The United Nations Volunteers (UNV) offers people opportunities to volunteer across the three pillars of the United Nations (UN): development, peace and security, and human rights. Title ANNUAL REPORTS Annual Report 2023 The United Nations Volunteers (UNV) offers global citizens an opportunity to volunteer across the three pillars of the United Nations (UN) system: development, peace and security, and human rights. UNV actively collaborates within the UN system, as well as with Member States and civil society. Annual Report 2022 The United Nations Volunteers (UNV) programme provides global citizens with an opportunity to volunteer across the three pillars of the United Nations: development, peace and security, and human rights. This annual report showcases the performance of UNV in 2022. It also highlights the contributions UNV has made as part of the crisis response efforts of the UN. Annual Report 2021 The United Nations Volunteers (UNV) programme provides global citizens with an opportunity to volunteer across the three pillars of the United Nations system: development, peace and security, and human rights. This annual report highlights the achievements of UNV during 2021. In recognition of the fiftieth anniversary of UNV in 2021, this report also includes reflections on developments since 1971, when the first United Nations (UN) Volunteers were deployed. Annual Report 2020 UNV saw increased demand for mobilization of volunteers and deployed 9,459 volunteers to 60 UN entities. For the first time in UNV's history, the number of national UN Volunteers exceeded that of international UN Volunteers by 12 per cent. In 2020, UNV fielded 902 UN Community Volunteers and 281 UN Expert Volunteers, a testimony to the adaptability of the new volunteer categories and the experience and perspectives they offer. Furthermore, the organization engaged 88 UN Volunteers with disabilities. The number of candidates self-reporting disabilities in UNV's global talent pool increased by 38 per cent to 4,590. Annual Report 2019 The United Nations Volunteers (UNV) programme continues to expand its support to the United Nations system through both advocating for volunteers worldwide and creating opportunities for qualified global citizens to contribute to United Nations efforts to achieve peace and development. We are proud of our 8,282 UN Volunteers who served in 54 United Nations missions, agencies, funds and programmes across the globe in 2019 – the highest number of volunteers deployed in the history of the organization. Each of them contributed to the achievement of the SDGs with their exceptional expertise and commitment. In addition, in the context of ongoing global digital transformation, UNV matched 13,186 global citizens to online volunteer assignments. Annual Report 2018 Volunteerism is a unique way to bring people together for the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals. Through volunteerism, communities are engaged and build their own sustainable futures. In 2018, as every year since the founding of UNV in 1971, we mobilized volunteers to contribute to the priorities and uphold the values of the United Nations. The integration of volunteerism into the United Nations system is anchored in the strong relationships between UNV and our United Nations partners. While, UN Volunteers actively contribute to the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals.


--- [UNV annual report available : r/volunteer - Reddit] ---
You've been blocked by network security. To continue, log in to your Reddit account or use your developer token If you think you've been blocked by mistake, file a ticket below and we'll look into it. Log in File a ticket


--- [United Nations Volunteers - Wikipedia] ---
The United Nations Volunteers (UNV) programme is a United Nations organization that contributes to peace and development through volunteerism worldwide.
Volunteerism is a powerful means of engaging people in tackling development challenges, and it can transform the pace and nature of development. Volunteerism benefits both society at large and the individual volunteer by strengthening trust, solidarity and reciprocity among citizens, and by purposefully creating opportunities for participation.
UNV contributes to peace and development through a dual mandate: mobilizing UN Volunteers for the United Nations and advocating for recognition of volunteers as a way to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). UNV embraces volunteerism as universal and inclusive, and recognizes volunteerism in its diversity as well as the values that sustain it: free will, commitment, engagement and solidarity. In 2023 UNV deployed almost 13,000 UN Volunteers to over 56 UN partners in all regions of the world.
Based in Bonn, Germany, UNV is active in around 130 countries every year. UNV, with six regional offices and field units in many countries, is administered by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and reports to the UNDP Executive Board.


