=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Saudi Aramco Unveils GigaPOWERS-TM]
DHAHRAN, January 30, 2010, SPA -- The Saudi Aramco EXPEC Advanced Research Center (EXPEC ARC) debuted recently its giga-cell reservoir simulation technology, GigaPOWERS-TM. GigaPOWERS™ is the second generation of Saudi Aramco’s leading reservoir simulator, POWERS (Parallel Oil, Water and Gas Enhanced Reservoir Simulator ...
URL: https://www.spa.gov.sa/743095

[Advance Auto Parts: Car, Engine, Batteries, Brakes, Replacement...]
Advance Auto Parts is your source for quality auto parts, advice and accessories. View car care tips, shop online for home delivery, or pick up in one of our 4000 convenient store locations in 30 minutes or less.
URL: https://shop.advanceautoparts.com/

[Saudi Aramco Unveils GigaPOWERS - Process Simulation]
Jan 26, 2010 · The Saudi Aramco EXPEC Advanced Research Center debuted its giga-cell reservoir simulation technology, GigaPOWERSï¿½, Jan. 23 in front of an overflowing audience in the EXPEC Auditorium.
URL: https://www.gulfoilandgas.com/webpro1/main/mainnews.asp?id=10328

[Braking - Advance Auto Parts]
Save on Braking at Advance Auto Parts. Buy online, pick up in-store in 30 minutes.
URL: https://shop.advanceautoparts.com/c1/braking/81536

[Our history - Aramco]
Our success in world-scale innovation was highlighted when, in 2010, we unveiled our giga-cell reservoir simulation technology, GigaPOWERS — the second generation of POWERS.
URL: https://www.aramco.com/en/about-us/our-history


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Saudi Aramco Unveils GigaPOWERS-TM] ---
No content


--- [Advance Auto Parts: Car, Engine, Batteries, Brakes, Replacement...] ---
Personalized care including battery testing and installation, oil recycling, wiper installation and more! Free in store or curbside pickup. Plus delivery available in select markets. Earn points every time you buy. Cash in for rewards. Advance your future today. Become a certified fleet driver. Apply now. Find out about rebate and sweepstake offers, submit your rebate online and more! We have approved professionals to repair any problem you have.


--- [Saudi Aramco Unveils GigaPOWERS - Process Simulation] ---
The Saudi Aramco EXPEC Advanced Research Center debuted its giga-cell reservoir simulation technology, GigaPOWERS™, Jan. 23 in front of an overflowing audience in the EXPEC Auditorium. GigaPOWERS™ is the second generation of Saudi Aramco’s leading reservoir simulator, POWERS (Parallel Oil, Water and Gas Enhanced Reservoir Simulator), which is used to simulate fluid movement in the reservoir to optimize production and injection, and the management of the reservoir. GigaPOWERS™ sets a new industry record of being able to simulate giant fields at seismic or near-seismic resolution, thus doing away with the conventional industry practice of averaging the simulation model cells in order to reduce their number, which also reduces the amount of information in the model. It can simulate models in excess of one billion cells (“giga-cell”), producing a more accurate simulation. Just like a megapixel camera, in which a higher number of pixels (resolution) yields more accurate images, the higher number of cells in the simulation model leads to more accurate simulation of the reservoir. “This is an exciting day for Saudi Aramco and a testimony of our success in providing cutting-edge technical solutions to manage our fields and reservoirs,” said Amin H. Nasser, senior vice president of Exploration and Producing, who kicked off the event with the live full-field simulation of the largest field in the world, Ghawar. “This cornerstone technology, GigaPOWERS™, allows us to more accurately simulate and predict the behavior of our fields and reservoirs and better optimize our production strategies.” “This achievement celebrates the commitment and support received from Saudi Aramco management and the perseverance and strong teamwork of the CMT-POWERS members who have dedicated years to the success of this major technology development,” said Ali Dogru, chief technologist of the EXPEC ARC Computational Modeling Technology Team and the pioneer behind POWERS and today’s GigaPOWERS™. “The need to simulate the Saudi Arabian fields in their entirety presented an attractive challenge many years ago. The business need and resources to push the limits of computational power to the billion-cell model — and beyond — only existed at Saudi Aramco. Working at Saudi Aramco provided me with this unique opportunity to develop an industry-leading technology.” Senior management, reservoir engineers and customers throughout the corporation gathered to witness the launch. The technology helps find solutions to challenges in new field development, deciding well locations, enhancing production optimization and much more. “Business decisions made regarding reservoir development and management rely to a large extent on understanding the reservoir performance through the POWERS reservoir simulation,” said Mohammed Y. Al-Qahtani, executive director of Petroleum Engineering and Development, “and that available capability, with GigaPOWERS™, just became even stronger, moving an already superior product a substantial step higher.” Dogru provided the audience with the history of CMT’s technology and illustrated how easily a user is able to navigate the simulator. Fatema H. Awami, supervisor of Reservoir Simulation Studies, performed user functions of the simulator in her live demonstration of the new Shaybah reservoir model. CMT members then explained a variety of advanced capabilities, including the new interactive simulation environment, intelligent wells, unstructured methods and future plans. “This completely in-house development journey has brought Saudi Aramco Reservoir Management a leading, high-impact simulation tool,” said Samer AlAshgar, EXPEC ARC manager, who hosted the event. The first-generation POWERS Development Team began developing the simulator in 1994. The team has grown and has been breaking records ever since. By 2000, it broke the one-million-cell record. In 2002, the 10-million cell milestone was achieved with the first full-field simulation of Ghawar. Then, about a year ago, the POWERS team broke through the one-billion-cell, or giga-cell threshold. “Computational power is a challenge in many industries. Throughout the years, our work has been driving research in both industry and academia in the broader field of computational sciences which benefits humanity in global areas well beyond the petroleum industry,” said Dogru. The live launch was a pivotal event in Saudi Aramco history. The fine scale of detail will now be applied to daily operations, benefiting the entire company, ensuring that the Kingdom’s hydrocarbon resources are carefully managed for generations to come.


--- [Braking - Advance Auto Parts] ---
Same Day Home Delivery Not Available For This Item Home Delivery Not available for this item Same Day Home Delivery Not Available For This Item Home Delivery Not available for this item Same Day Home Delivery Not Available For This Item Home Delivery Not available for this item Same Day Home Delivery Not Available For This Item Home Delivery Not available for this item Same Day Home Delivery Not Available For This Item Home Delivery Not available for this item Same Day Home Delivery Not Available For This Item Home Delivery Not available for this item Same Day Home Delivery Not Available For This Item Home Delivery Not available for this item Same Day Home Delivery Not Available For This Item Home Delivery Not available for this item Same Day Home Delivery Not Available For This Item Home Delivery Not available for this item Same Day Home Delivery Not Available For This Item Home Delivery Not available for this item Same Day Home Delivery Not Available For This Item Home Delivery Not available for this item Same Day Home Delivery Not Available For This Item Home Delivery Not available for this item Same Day Home Delivery Not Available For This Item Home Delivery Not available for this item Same Day Home Delivery Not Available For This Item Home Delivery Not available for this item Same Day Home Delivery Not Available For This Item Home Delivery Not available for this item Same Day Home Delivery Not Available For This Item Home Delivery Not available for this item Same Day Home Delivery Not Available For This Item Home Delivery Not available for this item Same Day Home Delivery Not Available For This Item Home Delivery Not available for this item


--- [Our history - Aramco] ---
Our history Our story is one of creativity and perseverance in equal measure. We’ve overcome challenges, advanced knowledge in our industry and far beyond, and helped usher in an age of abundant energy and transformative technology. Our history is one we’re proud of, and which inspires us as we evolve and transition into a new era of energy. Discover more about Aramco’s founding, and some of our key milestones and achievements through the years, below. The birth of Arabian oil Aramco traces its beginnings to 1933 when a Concession Agreement was signed between Saudi Arabia and the Standard Oil Company of California (SOCAL). A subsidiary company, the California Arabian Standard Oil Company (CASOC), was created to manage the agreement. The work began right away: following surveys of the Saudi desert, drilling began in 1935. Following years of effort with little to show for it, in 1937, SOCAL executives sought advice from their chief geologist, Max Steineke. Drawing on years of fieldwork, Steineke told them to keep on drilling. Finally, success In 1938, the efforts finally paid off with the commencement of commercial oil production from Dammam No. 7 — the aptly named Prosperity Well. Radical expansion across Saudi Arabia From the late 1940s, we grew from strength to strength — hitting record-breaking oil production milestones. Along the way, we were making Saudi Arabia famous for its energy, too. Now named Aramco (the Arabian American Oil Company), our crude oil production hit 500,000 barrels per day in 1949. Our rapid increase in oil production meant we had to expand our distribution efforts as well. In 1950, we completed the 1,212-kilometer Trans-Arabian Pipeline (Tapline) — at the time the longest in the world. The Tapline linked eastern Saudi Arabia to the Mediterranean Sea, sharply cutting the time and cost of exporting oil to Europe. And, after two years of exploration in the shallow Arabian Gulf waters, we located the Safaniyah field in 1951, the world’s largest offshore oil field discovered so far. And in 1958, Aramco’s crude oil production exceeded 1 million barrels per day. Billions of barrels By 1962, we reached another milestone, with cumulative crude oil production reaching 5 billion barrels. And by 1971, average daily production of crude oil had ramped up to 4.49 million barrels, which was roughly 1.6 billion barrels per year. Making a name for ourselves Throughout the 1970s, we not only proved ourselves as an economic force for Saudi Arabia, but we also returned to our Saudi Arabian heritage. In 1973, the Saudi government bought a 25% interest in Aramco, increasing that interest to 60% the following year. And in 1980, the Saudi government increased its interest in Aramco to 100%. Eight years later, the Saudi Arabian Oil Company (Saudi Aramco) was officially established — a new company to take over all the responsibilities of Aramco, with His Excellency Ali I. Al-Naimi becoming our first Saudi Company President in 1984, and the first Saudi President and CEO in 1988. The following year, Saudi Aramco began its transformation from an oil producing and exporting company to an integrated petroleum enterprise, with the formation of Star Enterprises in 1989 — a joint venture with Texaco in the United States. This would evolve to become Motiva, initially a partnership with Texaco and Shell, which in 2017 progressed to Saudi Aramco being the sole owner of North America’s largest single-site crude oil refinery, located at Port Arthur, Texas. A truly global company Throughout the 1990s, we gradually extended our ties and partnerships across the world and made several international investments — starting with our purchase in 1991 of a 35% interest in the SsangYong Oil Refining Company (renamed S-Oil in 2000) in the Republic of Korea. Our expansion continued in 1994, when we acquired a 40% interest in Petron Corporation, then the largest crude oil refiner and marketer in the Philippines. And then in 1996, we made several overseas investments in Europe, purchasing 50% in privately-held Greek refiner Motor Oil (Hellas) Corinth Refineries S.A., and its marketing affiliate, Avinoil Industrial Commercial and Maritime Oil Company, S.A. Today, we are represented in the three major global energy markets of Asia, Europe, and North America. Innovation Leading up to the millennium, using advanced techniques to help us discover and extract crude oil became essential. We needed technology on our side. In 1997, we developed POWERS (Parallel Oil-Water-Gas-Reservoir Simulator), a high-resolution reservoir simulator that models and predicts the performance of super-giant reservoirs. POWERS was so successful that it went on to inspire a range of more powerful and precise Aramco simulation software. In 2000, we built the state-of-the-art Research and Development Center (R&DC) in Dhahran, the foundation for a network of research centers across the world working on breakthroughs to increase discovery and recovery, reduce costs and GHG emissions, and enhance safety. Our success in world-scale innovation was highlighted when, in 2010, we unveiled our giga-cell reservoir simulation technology, GigaPOWERS — the second generation of POWERS. And then, six years later, TeraPOWERS — the industry’s first trillion cell reservoir simulation. Transformation Throughout the early 2000s, to help us achieve our vision of becoming the world’s leading integrated energy and chemicals enterprise, we continued to diversify. With many ways of delivering value from a barrel of oil — including nonmetallic and crude-to-chemicals products — we moved beyond traditional markets and uses for oil and gas. We also invested in new solutions to achieve more efficient production and consumption of our energy products, including programs aimed at enhancing the performance and lowering the emissions of transportation. Looking forward, we envision transforming our hydrocarbon resources into multiple new streams of value, while continuing to remain a reliable supplier of lower-carbon energy to the world. Timeline Oil concession agreement signed
