=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[TIL that the final words of Terry Kath, founding guitarist for rock band ...]
His last words were "It's okay! Gun's not loaded… see?" r/todayilearned - TIL: In 1954, famous rhythm-and-blues singer. wikipedia. 3.6K. 172 ...
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/todayilearned/comments/1bwz8ld/til_that_the_final_words_of_terry_kath_founding/

[What Were Terry Kath’s Last Words? - Fantastic Facts]
Chicago eventually became famous, releasing numerous hit albums. With their fame came the band members’ rise in drug use, and in addition to Kath’s cocaine addiction, he soon became heavily involved with guns. (Source: Louder Sound) The Tragic Death of Terry Kath
URL: https://fantasticfacts.net/8732/

[What were Terry Kath last words? – Guitar Reviewed]
Apr 25, 2022 · Where is Terry Kath’s guitar? “When we were making the documentary about my dad (Chicago: The Terry Kath Experience), we didn’t know where the guitar was, so the film almost became a hunt for this Telecaster guitar. “We finally found it at my grandpa’s house; he labeled all of the guitar cases and this one said ‘Terry’s favorite.
URL: https://guitarreviewed.com/posts/7c48baf48ee14b4a92c95bfe366602a1/

[List of last words]
"You must not pity me in this last turn of fate. You should rather be happy in the remembrance of our love, and in the recollection that of all men I was once ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_last_words

[TOP 6 QUOTES BY TERRY KATH | A-Z Quotes]
Terry Kath's last words before his death from a gun shot, January 23, 1978.
URL: https://www.azquotes.com/author/21842-Terry_Kath


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [TIL that the final words of Terry Kath, founding guitarist for rock band ...] ---
You've been blocked by network security. To continue, log in to your Reddit account or use your developer token If you think you've been blocked by mistake, file a ticket below and we'll look into it. Log in File a ticket


--- [What Were Terry Kath’s Last Words? - Fantastic Facts] ---
Terry Kath’s talent as a guitarist, which he exhibited during the classic rock era, earned him the recognition of many renowned guitarists. Referred to as The Best Guitarist in the Universe by Jimi Hendrix, Terry Kath’s legacy in music lives on as Chicago continues with their music. “What do you think I’m gonna do? Blow my brains out?” were Chicago guitarist and singer Terry Kath’s last words as he accidentally triggered a supposedly empty pistol to his head, dying at the young age of 31. The Universe’s Best Guitarist Many people would mention the names of Led Zeppelin’s Jimmy Page, Duane Allman, Eric Clapton, Stevie Ray Vaughan, or Jeff Beck as a response to who was the greatest guitarist during the classic rock era. With that said, only a few would mention Chicago’s guitarist, Terry Kath, who Jimi Hendrix named as the best guitarist in the universe. (Source: Classic Rock History) Born on January 31, 1946, in Chicago, Terry Alan Kath emerged as the son of two music-loving parents, Ray and Evelyn. Terry Kath eventually learned to play numerous musical instruments such as accordion, banjo, and the piano. Inspired by George Benson and The Ventures, Kath soon played the guitar. In 1967, Kath, Lee Loughnane, Danny Seraphine, Walter Parazaider, Robert Lamm, Jimmy Pankow, and Peter Cetera formed The Big Thing, a band that soon changed its name to Chicago. Chicago’s first meeting with Jimi Hendrix occurred when Hendrix and The Experience’s Mitch Mitchell visited Chicago’s gig at the Whisky A Go-Go. In this encounter, Hendrix mentioned to Parazaider that Kath was better than him. Chicago got its break when an edited version of Chicago’s Make Me Smile reached the Top 10 in the United States. Chicago eventually became famous, releasing numerous hit albums. With their fame came the band members’ rise in drug use, and in addition to Kath’s cocaine addiction, he soon became heavily involved with guns. (Source: Louder Sound) The Tragic Death of Terry Kath In a Louder Sound article written for Terry Kath in 2015, Danny Seraphine mentions Kath’s gun addiction, with the piece continuing to state that the bandmates feared Kath’s fixation on guns. He collected guns and started taking them everywhere. And guns and drugs are a bad combination. Danny Seraphine In The Eyes That Smiled Beach Boys biography, writer Paul Mendoza remembers when Kath played Russian Roulette at a party. When Beach Boy member Carl Wilson removed the gun from Kath’s hand, Kath became violent and punched Carl’s face. On January 23, 1978, a few days before his 32nd birthday, Kath arrived in Canoga Park, California, at Don Johnson’s apartment. Johnson, a Chicago roadie, regularly did drugs with Kath, and during this night, Kath had already been on cocaine for some days. Kath brought his guns into Johnson’s apartment, and there, he started cleaning them on the kitchen table. As he was ridding bullets from his 9 mm semi-automatic pistol, John advised him to be careful. In response, Kath showed the pistol’s clip, which would render the gun unable to fire. With the belief that the gun chamber was empty, Kath began waving the gun in the air after putting the clip back in. “What do you think I’m gonna do? Blow my brains out?” were the words Kath uttered before accidentally triggering the gun, which previously had one bullet left. As the band members coped with his death, they debated whether they would continue as a band. The band remained after Kath’s passing. Even with Kath gone, his legacy persists in Chicago’s music. (Source: Louder Sound)


--- [What were Terry Kath last words? – Guitar Reviewed] ---
Kath picked up a semi-automatic 9-mm pistol and, leaning back in a chair, said to Johnson, “Don’t worry about it … Look, the clip is not even in it.” His last words were, “What do you think I’m gonna do? Blow my brains out?” To calm Johnson’s concerns, Kath showed him the empty magazine. Then, is Chicago still together? As of July 2018, the three remaining active original members of Chicago are Lamm, Loughnane, and Pankow. Parazaider has retired from regular touring but is still considered a band member, and may play special events. Also know, is Phil Keaggy missing a finger? He is missing half of the middle finger on his right hand due to an accident at age four involving a water pump. Keaggy reflects on the incident: We lived on a farm in Hubbard, Ohio which had a big water pump, and I was climbing up on it. People also ask, was Terry better than Hendrix? When he died of a self-inflicted gunshot wound at the age of 32, Terry Kath had sold more than 22 million records, was dubbed a better guitarist than Jimi Hendrix (by Hendrix himself) and wrote one of the greatest guitar solos in the history of popular music. What Jimi Hendrix said about Terry Kath? The legendary guitar play Jimi Hendrix was blown away by Terry Kath’s guitar playing. When first hearing Terry Kath play, Jimi Hendrix was quoted as saying that he thought Terry Kath played guitar better than he did. It was later on reported that Jimi Hendrix also called Terry Kath the “Best Guitarist in the Universe.” Where is Terry Kath’s guitar? “When we were making the documentary about my dad (Chicago: The Terry Kath Experience), we didn’t know where the guitar was, so the film almost became a hunt for this Telecaster guitar. “We finally found it at my grandpa’s house; he labeled all of the guitar cases and this one said ‘Terry’s favorite. Who is considered the greatest rock guitarist of all time? Listen to our Rock Classics playlist, here, and check out our 20 best guitarists, below. - 8: Mark Knopfler. … - 7: Eddie Van Halen. … - 6: Brian May. … - 5: Chuck Berry. … - 4: Eric Clapton. … - 3: David Gilmour. … - 2: Jimi Hendrix. … - 1: Jimmy Page. Who replaced Donnie Dacus in Chicago? After just two albums, Dacus was dismissed from Chicago in February 1980. He was replaced by Chris Pinnick, who was initially credited as an additional contributor but later upgraded to a full band member. Who was the original lead singer for Chicago? Who was with Terry Kath when he died? A spokeiwoman for the group said the 33-year-old Mr. Kath spent the afternoon in the Woodland Hills home of a road crew member, Don Johnson, visiting and drinking with friends. Why did the band Chicago break up? Back in the US, Chicago finally got their break when an edited version of Make Me Smile reached the Top Ten. “At first we were upset that Columbia were bastardising our music,” admits Loughnane. “But then we realised we were getting played on the radio.”


--- [List of last words] ---
A person's last words, their final articulated words stated prior to death or as death approaches, are often recorded because of the decedent's fame, but sometimes because of interest in the statement itself. (People dying of illness are frequently inarticulate at the end, and in such cases their actual last utterances may not be recorded or considered very important.) Last words may be recorded accurately, or, for a variety of reasons, may not. Reasons can include simple error or deliberate intent. Even if reported wrongly, putative last words can constitute an important part of the perceived historical records or demonstration of cultural attitudes toward death at the time.
Charles Darwin, for example, was reported to have disavowed his theory of evolution in favor of traditional religious faith at his death. This widely disseminated report served the interests of those who opposed Darwin's theory on religious grounds. However, the putative witness had not been at Darwin's deathbed or seen him at any time near the end of his life.
Cultural traditions around the world ascribe special significance to words uttered at or near death, but the form and content of reported last words may depend on cultural context. There is a tradition in Hindu and Buddhist cultures of an expectation of a meaningful farewell statement; Zen monks by long custom are expected to compose a poem on the spot and recite it with their last breath. In Western culture particular attention has been paid to last words which demonstrate deathbed salvation – the repentance of sins and affirmation of faith.


--- [TOP 6 QUOTES BY TERRY KATH | A-Z Quotes] ---
Terry Kath Quotes You May Also Like: Popular topics - Popular topics: - Inspirational - Love - Funny - Success - Friendship - Life - Motivational - Wisdom - Leadership - Dream - Positive - Freedom - Knowledge - Happiness Terry Kath - Born: January 31, 1946 - Died: January 23, 1978 - Occupation: Musician - Cite this Page: Citation
