=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Whois indianexpress.com]
May 20, 2002 · Domain Information Domain: indianexpress.com Registered On: 2002-05-20 Expires On: 2028-05-20
URL: https://www.whois.com/whois/indianexpress.com

[The Indian Express Online - Media Ownership Monitor]
The Indian Express news website, indianexpress.com was launched in the year 1996. The news website publishes news in English language. The print edition, by the same name, was launched in 1932 by Ramnath Goenka. The website provides daily news apart from editorials and articles on the website. There is also an e-paper website, epaper.indianexpress.com that provides the readers an exact copy of ...
URL: http://india.mom-gmr.org/en/media/detail/outlet/the-indian-express-online/

[indianexpress.com Reviews: Is this site a scam or legit?]
Domain Blacklisting Status This term indicates whether indianexpress.com has landed on any online directories' blacklists and earned a suspicious tag. Assessing HTTPS Connectivity This section provides insight into whether indianexpress.com boasts an 's' at the end of the 'HTTP' protocol listed in your browser's address bar.
URL: https://www.scam-detector.com/validator/indianexpress-com-review/

[D-Day: The Allies Invade Europe - The National WWII Museum]
D-Day: The Allies Invade Europe In May 1944, the Western Allies were finally prepared to deliver their greatest blow of the war, the long-delayed, cross-channel invasion of northern France, code-named Overlord.
URL: https://www.nationalww2museum.org/war/articles/d-day-allies-invade-europe

[The Indian Express - Wikipedia]
In 1932, the Indian Express was started by an Ayurvedic doctor, P. Varadarajulu Naidu, at Chennai, being published by his Tamil Nadu press. Soon under financial difficulties, he sold the newspaper to Swaminathan Sadanand, the founder of The Free Press Journal, a national news agency. [4] .
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Indian_Express


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Whois indianexpress.com] ---
No content


--- [The Indian Express Online - Media Ownership Monitor] ---
The Indian Express Online The Indian Express news website, indianexpress.com was launched in the year 1996. The news website publishes news in English language. The print edition, by the same name, was launched in 1932 by Ramnath Goenka. The website provides daily news apart from editorials and articles on the website. There is also an e-paper website, epaper.indianexpress.com that provides the readers an exact copy of the day’s print version of the newspaper. The Indian Express also has links to the other daily papers of the company including Financial Express, Loksatta and Jansatta. Audience Share Missing Data Ownership Type Private Geographic Coverage International Content Type Free Media Companies / Groups Express Group Ownership Structure The Indian Express website is controlled by The Indian Express (P) Ltd company. Viveck Goenka the Managing Director and Chairman and his son Anant Goenka the Executive Director at The Indian Express jointly hold 40% shares in The Indian Express (P) Limited. Shekar Gupta and his wife Neelam Jolly hold 9% shares in the company. The remaining 50.9% shares are held by the corporate Indian Express Holdings and Private Enterprises Limited whose sole beneficiary is the Goenka family as its 99.9% shares are held by Viveck Goenka and Anant Goenka. Therefore, through Indian Express Holdings and Private Enterprises Limited the Goenka family holds 90.96% shares in The Indian Express (P) Ltd. Voting Rights Missing Data Individual Owner General Information Founding Year 1996 Affiliated Interests Founder launched the online edition of The Indian Express in 1996. As a publishing company, it is a part of the Express Group of Pubilcations. Affiliated Interests Ceo has a MBA degree from the Institute of Management Development and Research, Pune. George Varghese presently is a CEO and Managing Director of The Indian Express Private Limited. He has more than of 20 years of experience. Earlier, he was the Chief General Manager of Marketing at The Indian Express Private Limited (1988-1998), the President and CEO of Hughes Telecom (1998-2002), President of Reliance Communication (2002-2010) he joined back as CEO of The Indian Express Limited in the year 2013. He is also the Director of several of the Groups’ companies, among others. These companies include – The Indian Express Print Media Limited, IE Business Publications Limited, Indian Express Property Private Limited, Goenka Ventures (I) Limited, Indian Express Commercial Ventures and Projects Private Limited, Global Fairs and Media Private Limited, IE Online Media Services Private Limited, Techven Private Limited, Newschool Ventures Limited. Affiliated Interests Editor-In-Chief has a Bachelor’s Degree in Mechanical Engineering from Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Kharagpur and Masters in Journalism from University of Southern California. At an early stage he did an internship at the Los Angeles Times and the Washington Post and later worked for The Statesman in Kolkata as an assisting Editor for News and as a Senior Associate Editor at India Today Magazine. Raj Kamal Jha was also a visiting professor at the University of California. In addition Jha is an award-winning author. His book, “The Blue Bedspread” was awarded the Commonwealth Writer’s Prize for the Best First book in the Eurasia region. He has written two more books – “If you are afraid of heights” and “Fireproof”. Affiliated Interests other important people is the adopted son of Ramnath Goenka, the founder of The Indian Express. He has a Bachelor’s degree in Technology from Madras University. He is the Chairman and Managing Director of The Indian Express. It is being reported that he stands for a healthy relationship between the media and the government with the media in the role of the watchdog and in order to live up to the Express Ethos ‘Journalism of Courage’ that he is putting effort in creating a free and independent editorial atmosphere for all Express Publications. In addition, he is a Director of the United News of India. Formerly, he has been the Director of the Press Trust of India, a council member of the Audit Bureau of Circulation and was one of the youngest presidents of the Indian Newspaper Society. He continues to be an executive member of at the India Newspaper Society. At the Advertising Association, Indian Chapter as well as at the Advertising Association New York he is a member. Viveck Goenka is also the Director of several other companies including Gajanan Agritech Private Limited, The Financial Express Print Media Private Limited, Loksatta Private Limited, IE Business Publications Limited, The Chocolate Spoon Company Private Limited, Goenka Ventures (I) Limited, The Economy and Policy Research Foundation, Techven Private Limited, Vintage and Classic Car Federation of India, among others. Anant Goenka is the son of Viveck Goenka. Presently he is the Executive Director of The Indian Express and Head of New Media and handles the business publication division as well as he writes frequent columns himself for the Express. Since he joined the family Contact Corporate Office: Express Building, B-1/B, Sector-10, Noida - 201 301 Tel.: +91-120-6651500 Fax: +91-120-4367933 Website: expressgroup.indianexpress.com Registered Office: The Indian Express [P] Ltd Express Towers, First floor [Mezzanine] Nariman Point, Mumbai - 400 021 Tel.: 022 6744002 Financial Information Revenue (in Mill. $) Missing Data Operating Profit (in Mill. $) Missing Data Advertising (in % of total funding) Missing Data Market Share Missing Data Further Information Headlines Meta Data The Indian Express (P) Ltd. Company is an unlisted company. The management information was collected from the company website. The financial and shareholding information is collected from the Ministry of Corporate Affairs. Since it is an unlisted company it does not publish annual reports, and financial information on the company’s newspapers is not available. Also, an email and a courier were sent to the company on the 1st February 2019 requesting for the information but there has been no response yet.


--- [indianexpress.com Reviews: Is this site a scam or legit?] ---
No content


--- [D-Day: The Allies Invade Europe - The National WWII Museum] ---
In May 1944, the Western Allies were finally prepared to deliver their greatest blow of the war, the long-delayed, cross-channel invasion of northern France, code-named Overlord. General Dwight D. Eisenhower was supreme commander of the operation that ultimately involved the coordinated efforts of 12 nations. After much deliberation, it was decided that the landings would take place on the long, sloping beaches of Normandy. There, the Allies would have the element of surprise. The German high command expected the attack to come in the Pas de Calais region, north of the river Seine where the English Channel is narrowest. It was here that Adolf Hitler had put the bulk of his panzer divisions after being tipped off by Allied undercover agents posing as German sympathizers that the invasion would take place in the Pas de Calais. Surprise was an essential element of the Allied invasion plan. If the Germans had known where and when the Allies were coming they would have hurled them back into the sea with the 55 divisions they had in France. The invaders would have been on the offensive with a 10-to-1 manpower ratio against them. The challenges of mounting a successful landing were daunting. The English Channel was notorious for its rough seas and unpredictable weather, and the enemy had spent months constructing the Atlantic Wall, a 2,400-mile line of obstacles. This defensive wall comprised 6.5 million mines, thousands of concrete bunkers and pillboxes containing heavy and fast-firing artillery, tens of thousands of tank ditches, and other formidable beach obstacles. And the German army would be dug in on the cliffs overlooking the American landing beaches. At the Tehran Conference in August 1943, Allied leaders scheduled Overlord to take no later than May 1, 1944. In the meantime, they prepared ceaselessly for the attack. Trucks, tanks, and tens of thousands of troops poured into England. “We were getting ready for one of the biggest adventures of our lives,” an American sergeant said. “We couldn’t wait.” Meanwhile, the American and British air forces in England conducted a tremendous bombing campaign that targeted railroad bridges and roadways in northern France to prevent the Germans from bringing in reserves to stop the invasion. After General Dwight D. Eisenhower was appointed Supreme Commander, he and General Sir Bernard L. Montgomery modified the plan, expanding the size of the beachhead and the number of divisions in the initial assault. This, led Allied leaders to set June 5, 1944, as the invasion’s D-Day. But on the morning of June 4, meteorologists predicted foul weather over the English Channel on the 5th, leading Eisenhower to postpone the attack for 24 hours. The delay was unnerving for soldiers, sailors, and airmen, but when meteorologists forecast a brief window of clearer weather over the channel on June 6, Eisenhower made the decision to go. It was one of the gutsiest decisions of the war. Just after midnight on June 6, Allied airborne troops began dropping behind enemy lines. Their job was to blow up bridges, sabotage railroad lines, and take other measures to prevent the enemy from rushing reinforcements to the invasion beaches. Hours later, the largest amphibious landing force ever assembled began moving through the storm-tossed waters toward the beaches. Most of the Americans were packed into flat-bottomed Higgins boats launched from troop transports 10 miles from the French coastline. Vomit filled the bottom of the boats, and as water kept rushing in over the gunwales, the green-faced men had to bail this vile stew with their helmets. Though it was cold, the men were sweating. Planners had divided the landing zone into five separate beaches. The Americans landed at Utah and Omaha beaches. The British and Canadians landed at Gold, Juno, and Sword beaches. The fiercest fighting was on Omaha Beach where the enemy was positioned on steep cliffs that commanded the long, flat shoreline. Troops leapt from their landing boats and were pinned down for hours by murderous machine-gun fire that turned the beach into a vast killing field. “If you (stayed) there you were going to die,” Lieutenant Colonel Bill Friedman said. “We just had to . . . try to get to the bottom of the cliffs on which the Germans had mounted their defenses.” By midday, the Americans had surmounted the cliffs and taken Omaha Beach at a heavy cost: over 2,400 killed, wounded, or missing out of the total of approximately 34,000 who came ashore that day, a loss rate of more than 7 percent. By nightfall, about 160,000 Allied troops were ashore with nearly a million more men on the way that summer. The Normandy invasion was one of great turning points of twentieth-century history. An immense army was placed in Nazi-occupied Europe, never to be dislodged. Germany was threatened that same month by a tremendous Soviet invasion from the east that would reach the gates of Berlin by the following April. The way to appreciate D-Day’s importance is to contemplate what would have happened if it had failed. Another landing would not have been possible for at least a year. This would have given Hitler time to strengthen the Atlantic Wall, harass England with the newly developed V-1 flying bombs and V-2 rockets, continue to develop jet aircraft and other so-called “miracle weapons,” and finish off his killing campaign against ethnic and sexual undesirables. Cite this article: MLA Citation: APA Citation: Chicago Style Citation:


--- [The Indian Express - Wikipedia] ---
The Indian Express is an English-language Indian daily newspaper founded in 1932 by P. Varadarajulu Naidu. It is headquartered in Noida, owned by the Indian Express Group. It was later taken over by Ramnath Goenka. In 1999, eight years after Goenka's death in 1991, the group was split between the family members. The southern editions took the name The New Indian Express, while the northern editions, based in Mumbai, retained the original Indian Express name with The prefixed to the title.


