=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Bill Brown (critical theory)]
Brown has a B.A. from Duke University, an M.A. in creative writing (poetry) from Stanford University, and a Ph.D. from Stanford University's Modern Thought and ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bill_Brown_(critical_theory)

[Bill Brown | Department of English Language and Literature]
University of Chicago Walker Hall, 4th Floor 1115 E. 58th St. Chicago, IL 60637. Division of the Humanities, The University of Chicago. Email the English ...
URL: https://english.uchicago.edu/people/bill-brown

[Faculty members named to new professorships]
Sep 23, 2004 — He received his B.A. from Duke University and earned an M.A. in creative writing and a Ph.D. in modern thought and literature, both from ...
URL: http://chronicle.uchicago.edu/040923/dsp-named-faculty.shtml

[Nineteen on faculty receive distinguished, named chairs]
Sep 20, 2001 — He received his B.A. from Duke University and earned an M.A. in Creative Writing and a Ph. D.
URL: http://chronicle.uchicago.edu/010920/named-prof.shtml

[Bill Brown | Department of Visual Arts - The University of Chicago]
In the past few years I've taught courses on Whitman, on "Urban Fiction and American Space, 1880-1910" (Eng. 459), and on "Modernity and the Sense of Things" ( ...
URL: https://dova.uchicago.edu/people/bill-brown


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Bill Brown (critical theory)] ---
Bill Brown is the Karla Scherer distinguished service professor in American culture at the University of Chicago, where he teaches in the department of English language and literature, the department of visual arts, and the college. He previously held the Edward Carson Waller distinguished service professorship in humanities and the George M. Pullman professorship, and served as the chair of the University's English language and literature department from 2006-2008. After a brief term as the deputy dean for academic and research initiatives in the division of the humanities, Brown was recruited to be the new deputy provost for the arts in 2014. As deputy provost, Brown oversees the programming and future of UChicago Arts, serves on the arts steering committee, and chairs the UChicago art institutions subcommittee. He also serves on a number of other committees across campus - including the executive committee of the Karla Scherer Center for the Study of American Culture - and is the principal investigator for the object cultures project at The Chicago Center for Contemporary Theory (3CT). He has co-edited the University of Chicago's peer-reviewed literary journal, Critical Inquiry, since 1993.
Professor Brown's work focuses on American literature, with his second book, A Sense of Things, looking at the representation of objects in 19th-century American literature. His interests have since progressed to modernism. He also has a long-standing interest in popular culture, and has written about Toy Story and Westerns, among other facets of American life. His major theoretical work, however, is on Thing theory, which borrows from Heidegger's object/thing distinction to look at the role of objects that have become manifest in a way that sets them apart from the world in which they exist. He edited a special issue of Critical Inquiry on this subject, which won the CELJ award for Best Special Issue of an academic journal in 2002. His essay, "The Dark Wood of Postmodernity: Space, Faith, Allegory," which treats religious themes in the work of Marxian cultural theorist Frederic Jameson and in postmodern culture generally, was awarded the Modern Language Association's William Riley Parker Prize in 2005.
Brown has a B.A. from Duke University, an M.A. in creative writing (poetry) from Stanford University, and a Ph.D. from Stanford University's Modern Thought and Literature program. He has been teaching at the University of Chicago since 1989.


--- [Bill Brown | Department of English Language and Literature] ---
Biography In the past, my research has focused on popular literary genres (e.g. science fiction, the Western), on recreational forms (baseball, kung fu), and on the ways that mass-cultural phenomena (from roller coasters to Kodak cameras) impress themselves on the literary imagination. Rather than assuming that historical contexts explain a particular literary text, I assume that literature provides access to an otherwise irrecuperable history. In other words, I believe that the act of literary analysis (including formal analysis) can become an historiographical operation all its own. More recently, I have worked at the intersection of literary, visual, and material cultures, with an emphasis on what I call "object relations in an expanded field." I ask how inanimate objects enable human subjects (individually and collectively) to form and transform themselves—and indeed how objects and subjects transform one another. In a short piece called "Thing Theory," I began to point out how things and thingness might become new objects of critical analysis. In Other Things—focusing such analysis through ‘The Matter of Modernism,’ ‘Unhuman History,’ and ‘Kitsch Kulchur’—I engage a very wide range of work: Bergson, Bachelard, Arendt, Latour; Homer, Virginia Woolf, Philip K. Dick, Shawn Wong; Man Ray, Spike Lee, Dan Flavin, Brian Jungen. Dislodging the object-thing distinction from fundamental ontology (Heidegger) and from psychoanalysis (Lacan), I use it as a tool for apprehending the unanticipated force of an object, however banal that object may be. This is a new materialism within which the thingness of an object cannot be abstracted from the fields of culture and history. Currently I’m at work on a project called “Re-Assemblage,” which asks how assemblage practices (across the literary, visual, and plastic arts) might contribute to assemblage theory in the social sciences. Select Publications Books - Other Things (Chicago, 2015). - A Sense of Things: The Object Matter of American Literature (Chicago, 2003). - Things, a special issue of Critical Inquiry (Fall 2001, book version 2004). - Reading the West: An Anthology of Dime Novels (Bedford Books, 1997). - The Material Unconscious: American Amusement, Stephen Crane, and the Economies of Play (Harvard, 1996). Articles - "Decomposition: Book History Beyond the Book," Undoing Things (2025). - "Upheavals of Matter," Virginia Woolf - Objects, Things, Matter (2025) - “Re-Assemblage (Theory, Practice, Mode),” Critical Inquiry (2020). - “Fiber Optics,” Grey Room (2019), with Brandon Truett, Jacob Harris, Zoe Hughes, et al. - “Siting re-assemblage: Queen Elizabeth Olympic Park,” Journal of Landscape Architecture (2018), with Ted Brown. - “Encountering Design,” Encountering Things: Design and Theories of Things (2017). - “The Obsolescence of the Human,” Cultures of Obsolescence (2015). - “Object Cultures and Another Thing,” The Art of American Still Life: Audubon to Warhol (2015). Teaching Sample of Courses Taught: Graduate: Assemblage; Thing Theory; Late James; Urban Fiction and American Space, 1880-1910; Modernity and the Sense of Things; Romantic Fetishism; Kitsch, Camp, and the Politics of Culture. Undergraduate: Studio R-A (A Theory/History –Design/Build Studio); BLAST: Avant-Garde London, 1912-1920; American Modern, 1910-1930; The American 1890s; Whitman; Henry James; Philip K. Dick.


--- [Faculty members named to new professorships] ---
Faculty members named to new professorshipsBy Jessamine Chan, John Easton, William Harms, Steve Koppes, Seth Sanders, Peter SchulerGraduate School of Business, Medical Center Public Affairs, News Office Eight University faculty members, Bill Brown, Susan Gal, James Madara, Salikoko Mufwene, Anne Robertson, Thomas Rosenbaum, William Sewell and Nancy Stokey, have recently received distinguished service professorships. Eight University professors have received named professorships, including two new faculty members, Frances Ferguson and Bruce Meyer. Current faculty members who have received named professorships are: John Cochrane, Christopher Hsee, Vinay Kumar, Tanya Luhrmann, Françoise Meltzer and Simon Swordy. Brown, whose Chicago colleague John Goldsmith carries the first Edward Carson Waller Distinguished Service professorship, has focused his research on the relationship between literature and everyday life in America. He has explored this relationship through material culture, addressing the issues of collective memory, race, gender and entertainment in his work. Brown has recently published A Sense of Things: The Object Matter of American Literature, and is the author of The Material Unconscious: American Amusement, Stephen Crane, and the Economies of Play. He has edited the award-winning special issue, titled Things, of the University’s journal Critical Inquiry and Reading the West: An Anthology of Dime Novels, a collection that makes available some of the earliest “Westerns” from the 19th century. Brown also has produced articles analyzing popular sports and entertainment forms, and has written on science fiction, toys and posters, as well as Virginia Woolf, Henry James and Charles Johnson. He has received fellowships from the Chicago Humanities Institute, the Stanford Humanities Institute and the University of Utah. He is co-editor of Critical Inquiry and has served on the editorial board of American Literature. He served as Master of the Humanities Collegiate Division from 1998 to 2002. Brown is a member of the Modern Language Association, the American Studies Association, the American Anthropological Association, the Stephen Crane Society and the Society for Cinema Studies. He received his B.A. from Duke University and earned an M.A. in creative writing and a Ph.D. in modern thought and literature, both from Stanford University. In her research, Gal explores the role of language in shaping political, economic and gender relations. Her early research resulted in the book Language Shift: Social Determinants of Linguistic Change in Bilingual Austria, which describes the linguistic practices of a minority population in Eastern Europe, the making of ethnicity in the post-World War II period, and the process by which a bilingual community becomes monolingual. The book has been excerpted and quoted extensively. Her subsequent research has taken up comparative questions, focusing on ethnic minorities throughout Europe, and on women’s linguistic resources and strategies worldwide. She received a Guggenheim fellowship in 2002 to conduct research that challenges many of the widely held views about political language that scholars developed after the fall of communism in Eastern Europe. The Politics of Gender After Socialism, co-written with Gail Kligman, offers a novel approach to the Eastern European transitions. Gal also has co-edited two volumes on language and authority and on reproduction. In her forthcoming analysis of communist and post-communist political talk, her goal is to develop a more general approach to language and political authority that will encompass politics in various social systems. Gal received a B.A. in anthropology and psychology in 1970 from Barnard College and a Ph.D. in anthropology in 1976 from the University of California, Berkeley. She joined the Chicago faculty in 1994 after serving on the faculty at Rutgers University. As a scientist, Madara has made important contributions to understanding the biology of the cells that line the digestive tract. He has elucidated, at the molecular level, how these cells permit the absorption of nutrients while serving as a barrier to intestinal bacteria, and how these cells help regulate the innate immune response to normal and disease-causing bacteria. This research has been crucial to understanding infectious diseases that affect the intestines, to treating inflammatory disorders such as ulcerative colitis or Crohn’s disease, and to improving drug delivery. In recognition of his research, Madara received the 1990 Warner-Lambert/Parke-Davis Award from the American Association of Pathologists and the 1991 Physician Scientist Award from the American Gastroenterological Association. In 1997, he was elected to the Association of American Physicians and received a prestigious MERIT Award from the National Institutes of Health, and in 2002 he received the Astra Zeneca International Prize for Distinguished Research in Digestive Diseases. He has served on the editorial boards of several scientific journals and also served as editor-in-chief of the American Journal of Pathology. Madara graduated from Hahnemann Medical College in Philadelphia in 1975, completed residency and research training in pathology at Harvard Medical School’s New England Deaconess and Peter Bent Brigham Hospitals, and joined the faculty at Brigham and Women’s Hospital in 1980, serving as director of the division of gastrointestinal pathology. In 1993, he was appointed professor of pathology at Harvard Medical School, and from 1994 until 1997, when he left Harvard for Emory University, he served as director of the Harvard Digestive Diseases Center. Mufwene studies the development of Creole languages using an ecological approach inspired by population genetics. Over the past few years, he has used insights from his research on creoles to address issues on language evolution, including those of language endangerment. He also has investigated morphosyntactic and semantic characteristics of Gullah, African-American Vernacular English, Jamaican Creole and English. His earlier work dealt with kinship semantics, comparing English and Bantu languages. He is the author of The Ecology of Language Evolution and the editor or co-editor of African-American English, Africanisms in Afro-American Language Varieties and Topics in African Linguistics, among many other works. He has taught at the University of the West Indies and the University of Georgia, and he joined the Chicago faculty in 1991. Mufwene has served as Chair of the Department of Linguistics, a visiting scientist at the Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology in Leipzig, a visiting professor at Harvard University, and on the editorial or advisory boards of such journals as Langages, Journal of Pidgin and Creole Languages, Etudes Cr�oles, American Speech, Language Variation and Change, and World Englishes. He also has received a Fulbright fellowship and grants from the National Endowment for the Humanities and the National Science Foundation, among many others. Mufwene earned his Candidature en Philosophie et Lettres, Groupe Philologie Anglaise in 1970 from Lovanium University, Kinshasa/Zaire; his Licence en Philosophie et Lettres (equivalent to a B.A.), Groupe Philologie Anglaise, from the National University of Zaire with Highest Honors in 1973, and a Ph.D. in Linguistics in 1979 from Chicago. Her books include The Service Books of the Royal Abbey of St. Denis: Images of Ritual and Music in the Middle Ages, which earned the John Nicholas Brown Prize of the Medieval Academy of America; and Guillaume de Machaut and Reims: Context and Meaning in his Musical Works, which won the Otto Kinkeldey Award of the American Musicological Society. Her honors include the Alfred Einstein Award of the American Musicological Society and the Van Courtlandt Elliott Prize of the Medieval Academy. Robertson earned her B.Mus. in 1974 from the University of Houston, where she graduated Valedictorian; an M.Mus. in chamber music and accompanying in 1976 from the University of Houston; an M.Mus. in music theory in 1979 from Rice University; and the M.Phil. and Ph.D. from Yale University, in 1981 and 1984, respectively. Robertson, who has taught at Chicago since 1984, has served as Deputy Provost for Research and Education and Chair of the Department of Music. In a recent project, Rosenbaum and his associates showed how quantum mechanics, which dominates the microscopic world, under certain conditions also can manifest itself on the macroscopic scale. The demonstration is one in a long series of steps toward quantum computers, which would be faster and more powerful than today’s digital computers. Rosenbaum conducted research at Bell Laboratories and IBM Watson Research Center before joining the physics faculty at Chicago in 1983. The former James Franck Professor in Physics, the James Franck Institute and the College, Rosenbaum is a former director of the University’s Materials Research Science and Engineering Center and the James Franck Institute. Since 2002, Rosenbaum also has served as Vice President for Research and for Argonne National Laboratory. His honors include an Alfred P. Sloan Research fellowship, a Presidential Young Investigator Award and the William L. McMillan Award for Outstanding Contributions to Condensed Matter Physics. He also has delivered the Bertman Memorial Lecture at Wesleyan University. Rosenbaum received his A.B. with honors in physics from Harvard University and his M.A. and Ph.D. in physics from Princeton University. Sewell, who studies 18th- and 19th-century French history, is the author of Work and Revolution in France: The Language of Labor From the Old Regime to 1848, which has been translated into French, Italian and Spanish. He also has written Structure and Mobility: The Men and Women of Marseille and A Rhetoric of Bourgeois Revolution: The Abbe Sieyes and What Is the Third Estate? Next year, the University Press will publish his latest work, Logics of History: Social Theory and Social Transformation. Sewell was a University faculty member in History from 1968 to 1975 and rejoined the Chicago faculty in 1990 as Professor in Political Science and History. He spent the intervening years at the Institute for Advanced Study, the University of Arizona and the University of Michigan. He has received numerous awards, including the Herbert Baxter Adams Prize from the American Historical Society in 1981 for Work and Revolution in France. The American Sociological Association has honored him with the Prize for Best Article in Comparative Historical Sociology in 1991; the Prize for Best Article in Cultural Sociology in 1993; and the Prize for the Best Article in Sociological Theory in 1993. Earlier this year, Sewell was elected a fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. He received his B.A. in 1962 from the University of Wisconsin and his Ph.D. in 1971 from the University of California, Berkeley. She is the author of numerous papers on economic growth as well as co-author of Recursive Methods in Economic Dynamics, a book about economists’ research methods. Stokey was among 72 new members elected to the National Academy of Sciences earlier this year in recognition of distinguished and continuing achievements in original research. She also was selected to be part of the Copenhagen Consensus, a meeting in Copenhagen where some of the world’s leading economists gathered in May to rank the biggest challenges of the world. The roundtable was co-sponsored by The Economist and the Danish National Environmental Assessment Institute. Stokey, an editor of the Journal of Political Economy, also has served as co-editor of Econometrica, associate editor of Games and Economic Behavior, and associate editor of the Journal of Economic Theory. She was vice president of the American Economic Association from 1996 to 1997. Stokey has looked at the causes and consequences of economic growth in her work. In a paper titled “R&D and Economic Growth,” she examined the incentives for firms to invest too much or too little in developing new products or technologies. In a paper titled “Are There Limits to Growth?” she looked at the demand in richer societies for legislation to curb pollution, and compared the efficiency of taxes, vouchers and other mechanisms in reducing pollution while maintaining incentives for capital accumulation. She joined the University faculty in 1990 after serving on the faculty at Northwestern University, where she was the Harold Stuart professor of managerial sciences. She received a B.A. in economics from Pennsylvania State University in 1972 and a Ph.D. in economics from Harvard University in 1978. Cochrane’s research focuses on finance, macroeconomics and monetary economics. He is the author of Asset Pricing, for which he was awarded the 2001 TIAA-CREF Institute Paul A. Samuelson Award. Cochrane first received the Samuelson Award in 1999 as a Certificate of Excellence for “By Force of Habit.” His many academic publications include “Bond Risk Premia” with Monika Piazzesi, forthcoming in the American Economic Review; “The Risk and Return of Venture Capital,” forthcoming in the Journal of Financial Economics; and “Stock as Money: Convenience Yield and the Tech-Stock Bubble” in Asset Price Bubbles. Cochrane is currently director of the Asset Pricing Program at the National Bureau of Economic Research, at which he has been a research associate since 1998. From 1998 to 2003, Cochrane was an editor of the Journal of Political Economy. He also has served as associate editor of the Journal of Business, the Journal of Monetary Economics, the Journal of Economic Dynamics and Control, and the Journal of Money Credit and Banking. Prior to joining the GSB faculty in 1994, Cochrane taught in the Department of Economics for 10 years. He also has served as a visiting professor of finance at the University of California, Los Angeles’ Anderson Graduate School of Management from 2000 to 2001. Cochrane earned an S.B. in physics from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1979, and a Ph.D. in economics from the University of California, Berkeley in 1986. Hsee’s research focuses on judgment and choice, the interplay between psychology and economics, subjective well-being and happiness, emotion, consumer behavior, and cross-cultural psychology. Hsee’s work has been published in numerous academic journals, including “Distinction Bias: Misprediction and Mischoice Due to Joint Evaluation” with J. Zhang, published in the Journal of Personality and Social Psychology; “Music, Pandas, and Muggers: On the Affective Psychology of Value” with GSB Visiting Associate Professor of Behavioral Science Yuval Rottenstreich, published in the Journal of Experimental Psychology; and “Why Are People so Prone to Steal Intellectual Property? The Effect of Cost Structure on Purchase Intentions” with Elke Weber, published in the Journal of Public Policy and Marketing. Hsee is Co-director of the Executive Program in Negotiation and Decision-making Strategies for Managers at the GSB. He has visited China Europe International Business School in China and was a founding member of the International Association of Chinese Management Research. Hsee has served on the editorial boards of such journals as Journal of Marketing Research, Journal of Behavioral Decision Making, and Organizational Behavior and Human Decision Processes. He also has served as a reviewer for many other journals, such as the American Economic Review, the Journal of Consumer Research, the Journal of Experimental Psychology, Psychological Bulletin, and the Journal of Marketing Research. Hsee earned a B.A. in psychology from the University of Hawaii in 1989, and a Ph.D. in psychology from Yale University in 1993. He was recently elected a fellow of the American Association for Advancement of Science. He also is an author of Pathologic Basis of Disease and Basic Pathology, one of the best-selling texts in the field. He came to the United States in 1972 to join what was, at the time, a most renowned pathology faculty at Boston City Hospital and Boston University, where he was honored for his teaching and research skills in both the basic and clinical sciences. He continued to be honored as a teacher and scientist after joining the faculty at the University of Texas Southwestern in 1982, where he became a professor of pathology in 1983. The author or co-author of five pathology textbooks and teaching aids, Kumar has published more than 150 original articles in scientific journals, a dozen book chapters and nearly 20 review articles. He has lectured throughout the United States and Europe, served on the editorial boards of several journals, including the Journal of Immunology, and recently completed his term as president of the American Society of Investigative Pathology. Born in India in 1944, Kumar graduated with honors, at the age of 17, from Poona University. He earned his M.B.B.S., (the equivalent of the M.D. degree) in 1967, at the age of 22, from Punjab University Medical College, where he was named “Best Medical Graduate,” winning the Pfizer Award and the Gold Medal for highest achievement as a medical student. He completed both his M.D. (Ph.D. equivalent) in experimental pathology and his residency in anatomic pathology and hematology in 1972, at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, where he was awarded the Khanolkar Prize for outstanding research in pathology. Luhrmann, an anthropologist who uses ethnographic methods to focus on traditionally psychological topics, has published Persuasions of the Witch’s Craft: Ritual Magic in Modern Culture; The Good Parsi: The Postcolonial Anxieties of an Indian Colonial Elite; and Of Two Minds: An Anthropologist Looks at American Psychiatry. A cultural anthropologist, Luhrmann studies the connections between mental health, religion and culture, focusing her ethnographic research on psychiatric and religious experience. Her specific research interests include witchcraft, South Asia, modern American religions, trauma and people with serious mental illness. She has received numerous awards for her work, including the Stirling Prize from the American Anthropological Association for an essay on psychological anthropology titled “The Magic of Secrecy.” Luhrmann also received the Victor Turner Prize for Ethnographic Writing for her book Of Two Minds: An Anthropologist Looks at American Psychiatry. This title refers to a tension at the heart of American psychiatry, that is, the co-existence of two very different ways of thinking about and treating mental illness: bioscience and pharmacotherapy, and psychodynamics and psychotherapy. Her work shows that both approaches have validity in helping people overcome mental illness. She was inducted into the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 2003. In researching the topic, she conducted more than four years of ethnographic study as a participant-observer in psychiatric training programs, hospital wards, residential treatment programs, individual and group therapy sessions, and various professional conferences. Luhrmann received a B.A. from Harvard University in 1981, and a Ph.D. in social anthropology from Cambridge in 1986. She joined the Chicago faculty in 2000, after serving as a professor at the University of California, San Diego. Her book Hot Property: The Stakes and Claims of Literary Originality examines the ideas of originality and authorship in a series of case studies from Descartes to Walter Benjamin. Her most recent book, For Fear of the Fire: Joan of Arc and the Limits of Subjectivity, explores the gendering of subjectivity from within the context of Joan of Arc’s trial. Currently, Meltzer is working on a book that examines the notion of rupture (in history, philosophy, architecture and literature) as read in the events that surround the year 1848 in France. She recently co-edited with colleague David Tracy, the Andrew Thomas Greeley & Grace McNichols Greeley Distinguished Service Professor in the Divinity School, a “Symposium on ‘God’” for the journal Critical Inquiry. Presently, she is co-editing, also with Tracy, a book on religion and postmodernist texts. A co-editor of Critical Inquiry since 1982, Meltzer joined the Chicago faculty in 1975. She also served as a visiting professor at the University of California, Berkeley, and at Cornell University. At Chicago, she served as Chair of the Department of Comparative Literature for seven years, and she completed a term as a fellow of the Franke Institute for the Humanities in 2003. Meltzer earned her B.A from Ohio University in 1969, studied at the University of Freiburg in Breisgau from 1967 to 1969, and earned her M.A. and Ph.D. in Comparative Literature from the University of California, Berkeley, in 1971 and 1975, respectively. As a member of the VERITAS (Very Energetic Radiation Imaging Telescope Array System) collaboration, Swordy is looking for evidence of gamma-ray emissions from the remnants of exploding stars. Such evidence could help identify the mysterious source of high-energy cosmic rays, which are subatomic scraps of matter that bombard Earth from all directions. Swordy began his career as a research assistant in cosmic-ray physics at the University of Bristol in the United Kingdom in 1978. The following year he became a Research Associate at the Enrico Fermi Institute. He attained the rank of Professor in Physics in 2000. From 2000 to 2003 he served as Master of the Physical Sciences Collegiate Division and Associate Dean of the Physical Sciences, and as the George E. Uhlenbeck visiting professor of physics at the University of Michigan. He also is an elected fellow of the American Physical Society. Swordy received his B.S. degree with first-class honors and his Ph.D. from the University of Bristol. |


--- [Nineteen on faculty receive distinguished, named chairs] ---
Nineteen on faculty receive distinguished, named chairs By Jessamine Chan, John Easton, Jeanne Galatzer-Levy, William Harms, Steve Koppes, and Seth Sanders. Medical Center Public Affairs, the GSB, and the News Office staff Three University faculty members––Arjun Appadurai, the Samuel N. Harper Professor in Anthropology; Robert Nelson, Professor in Art History; and Sam Peltzman, the Sears, Roebuck Professor in the Graduate School of Business;––have recently received distinguished service professorships. Sixteen other University professors have been appointed to endowed chairs, including new faculty member, Roger Myerson (see related story, Page 5). Current faculty members who received named chairs are Bill Brown, Professor in English Language & Literature; James Chandler, the George M. Pullman Professor in English Language & Literature; John Cochrane, the Sigmund E. Edelstone Professor in the Graduate School of Business; Steven Davis, Professor of Business Economics in the Graduate School of Business; Michael Dawson, Professor and Chairman of Political Science; Robert Gertner, Professor of Economics; Susan Goldin-Meadow, Professor in Psychology; Richard Hellie, Professor in History; Charles Larmore, Professor in Political Science and Philosophy; Robert McCulloch, Professor of Econometrics and Statistics in the Graduate School of Business; Ann McGill, Professor of Marketing and Behavioral Sciences in the Graduate School of Business; Fabrizio Michelassi, Professor in Surgery; Thomas Rosenbaum, Professor in Physics; Steven Sibener, Professor in Chemistry; and Luigi Zingales, Professor of Finance in the Graduate School of Business. Arjun Appadurai, one of the world’s leading scholars on the anthropology of globalization, has been named the Samuel N. Harper Distinguished Service Professor in Anthropology and South Asian Languages & Civilizations. Appadurai, Director of the University’s Globalization Project, is an expert on the cultural dimensions of globalization. He is the author of numerous books on the subject, including Modernity at Large: Cultural Dimensions of Globalization (1996), and he is the editor of The Social Life of Things: Commodities in Cultural Perspective (1986). He has directed a number of important research projects, including “Public Spheres and the Globalization of Media,” conducted through the Chicago Humanities Institute from 1993 to 1997, and “Ethnic Violence in the Era of Globalization,” through the Open Society Institute from 1997 to 1998. The University Press will publish Appadurai’s forthcoming book Space, Uncertainty and Ethic Violence in the Era of Globalization, and two edited collections of his essays, India After Empire and East of Anthropology, will appear in 2002. Appadurai was the first director of the University’s Franke Institute for the Humanities, holding that post from 1992, when he joined the University faculty, until 1996. As its director, he held the Barbara E. and Richard J. Franke Professorship. Appadurai received a B.A. in history from Brandeis University in 1970 and an M.A. in 1973 and a Ph.D. in 1976, both in Social Thought from the University. He was a faculty member at the University of Pennsylvania prior to his faculty appointment at Chicago. Robert Nelson, who has been named a Distinguished Service Professor in Art History and the History of Culture, has focused his scholarly research on the relation of Byzantine art to culture and society, the reception of Byzantine illuminated manuscripts in the Italian Renaissance and the constitution of Byzantine art and history from 1750 to the present. His current projects include Remembering Holy Wisdom: Hagia Sophia, Medieval Church and Modern Monument. Nelson also is Chairman of the Committee on the History of Culture at the University. His research within this area includes the artistic interaction of several cultures that were active in the central and eastern Mediterranean during the Middle Ages. His most recent work has concerned the semiotics of writing and ornament, politically symbolic visual narratives, and culturally constructed notions of vision. Nelson has published The Iconography of Preface and Miniature in the Byzantine Gospel Book and Theodore Hagiopetrites: A Late Byzantine Scribe and Illuminator; edited Visuality Before and Beyond the Renaissance: Seeing as Others Saw; and co-edited volumes on Frank Lloyd Wright, the art of the Mediterranean world and Critical Terms for Art History. The author of more than 40 scholarly articles and reviews, Nelson has received fellowships from the J. Paul Getty Research Institute for Art History and the Humanities, the National Endowment for the Humanities, the American Council of Learned Societies and the John Simon Guggenheim Memorial Foundation. Nelson came to the University as an Instructor in Art History in 1977. He also has taught at the University of California, Los Angeles. At Chicago he has served as Chairman of the Department of Art and the Committee on Art and Design. He also has been associated with several organizations, including serving as director of the International Center of Medieval Art, vice president of the International Association of Byzantine Studies and president of the Byzantine Studies Conference. He also is a member on the Committee on the Ancient Mediterranean World. He received his B.A. from Rice University and his M.A. and Ph.D. from New York University’s Institute of Fine Arts. Sam Peltzman, a renowned economist, has been named the Ralph and Dorothy Keller Distinguished Service Professor of Economics in the Graduate School of Business. A member of the University faculty since 1973, Peltzman previously served as the Sears, Roebuck Professor of Economics. His research focuses on issues related to the interface between the public sector and the private economy. His published work includes numerous articles for academic journals such as the Journal of Political Economy, the Journal of Law & Economics and the American Economic Review. These articles encompass issues in the general areas of the economics of government regulation and industrial organization, including the regulation of banking, automobile safety and pharmaceutical innovation, the political economy of public education and the public provision of higher education, and the behavior of voters and legislators. He is the author of Political Participation and Government Regulation, The Regulation of Pharmaceutical Innovation and The Regulation of Automobile Safety. Peltzman served as Senior Staff Economist for the President’s Council of Economic Advisers from 1970 to 1971. He also has been a research associate at the National Bureau of Economic Research and a member of the Research Advisory Board for the Committee for Economic Development. Currently, he is Director of the George J. Stigler Center for the Study of the Economy and the State. He edits the Journal of Law and Economics, and serves on the advisory boards of several other academic journals as well as the Council of Academic Advisers of the American Enterprise Institute. Prior to joining the faculty, he taught at the University of California, Los Angeles. He received a B.B.A., magna cum laude, from the City College of New York in 1960, and a Ph.D. in economics from the University in 1965. Bill Brown, who has been named the George M. Pullman Professor in English Language & Literature, has focused on the relationship between literature and everyday life in America, exploring issues of collective memory, race, gender and entertainment in his research. Brown has published The Material Unconscious: American Amusement, Stephen Crane, and the Economies of Play. He also has edited Reading the West: An Anthology of Dime Novels, a groundbreaking collection that makes available some of the first “Westerns” written in the 19th century. Brown also has produced articles that analyze popular sports and entertainment forms, including “Waging Baseball, Playing War: Games of American Imperialism” and “The Meaning of Baseball in 1992 (With Notes on the Post-American).” He also has written on the topics of science fiction, toys and posters as well as Virginia Woolf and Charles Johnson. His articles have appeared in Public Culture, Cultural Critique, Representations, Modern Philology, Modernism and Modernity, American Literary History and Critical Inquiry. His current projects include A Sense of Things: Literary Objects in America, Transcultural Transaction: US Cultural Studies and a special issue of Critical Inquiry titled “Things.” He has received fellowships from the Chicago Humanities Institute, the Stanford Humanities Institute and the University of Utah. He is co-editor of Critical Inquiry, has served on the editorial board of American Literature and has directed or co-directed 26 dissertations. Brown is a member of the Modern Language Association, the American Studies Association, the Stephen Crane Society and the Society for Cinema Studies. He received his B.A. from Duke University and earned an M.A. in Creative Writing and a Ph.D. in Modern Thought and Literature, both from Stanford University. James Chandler, who was named Director of the Franke Institute for the Humanities in January, also has been named the Barbara E. and Richard J. Franke Professor. The Franke professorship is coterminous with that of the directorship of the institute. Chandler recently was awarded the 2000 Gordon J. Laing Award from the University Press for his book England in 1819: The Politics of Literary Culture and the Case of Romantic Historicism. The book examines the ties between romantic and contemporary views of history, setting them in the context of the changes taking place in Britain after Napoleon’s defeat at Waterloo. The focus of Chandler’s scholarly work has been on English Romanticism. He is currently working on The New Cambridge History of English Romantic Literature, and he is co-editing a collection titled Romantic Metropolis: Cultural Productions of the City, 1780-1850. In addition, he is engaged in a broader project titled A Sympathetic Eye: Capra, Commerce, and the History of Sentiment, which “aims to set the work of film director Frank Capra––and of ‘golden age’ Hollywood more generally––in much longer perspectives of cultural and intellectual history.” Chandler has published a book on the poetry and politics of Wordsworth and co-edited a volume titled Questions of Evidence: Proof, Practice, and Persuasion Across the Disciplines. He is an editor of two series, Cambridge Studies in Romanticism and Literature in History and Literature in History (Princeton University Press). Chandler is the author of more than 30 articles and reviews that have appeared in Critical Inquiry, Modern Philology, English Literary History and the Johns Hopkins Guide to Criticism and Theory. He is the recipient of awards from the Fulbright Foundation, the National Endowment for the Humanities, the American Council of Learned Societies, the Danforth Foundation, as well as the ler degré francais from the University of Grenoble. Chandler received his B.A. from the University of Notre Dame and his M.A. and Ph.D., both with honors, from Chicago. John Cochrane, a recognized finance expert, has been named the Theodore O. Yntema Professor of Finance in the Graduate School of Business. Since 1997, he has served as the Sigmund E. Edelstone Professor of Finance and Economics in the GSB. Cochrane’s research focuses on finance, macroeconomics and monetary economics. He is the author of Asset Pricing and numerous articles for academic journals. Those articles include “Long Term Debt and Optimal Policy in the Fiscal Theory of the Price Level,” published in Econometrica, and “Beyond Arbitrage: Good Deal Asset Price Bounds in Incomplete Markets” and “By Force of Habit: A Consumption-Based Explanation of Aggregate Stock Market Behavior,” (with John Campbell), both published in the Journal of Political Economy. Currently, he is an editor of the Journal of Political Economy. He previously has been associate editor of the Journal of Economic Dynamics and Control, the Journal of Monetary Economics, the Journal of Money Credit and Banking and the Journal of Business and foreign editor of the Review of Economic Studies. He also is a Research Associate and Asset Pricing Program Director at the National Bureau of Economic Research, a consultant to the Research Department at the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago and he serves on the American Economic Association Finance Committee. Cochrane is the recipient of multiple National Science Foundation grants. Prior to joining the GSB in 1994, Cochrane taught in the Economics Department for 10 years. He recently was a Visiting Professor of Finance at the Anderson Graduate School of Management at the University of California, Los Angeles. He received an S.B. in physics from Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1979 and a Ph.D. in economics from the University of California, Berkeley, in 1986. Steven Davis, a faculty member of the Graduate School of Business since 1985, has been named the William H. Abbott Professor of International Business and Economics in the GSB. He has collaborated on two books, Job Creation and Destruction and Entrepreneurial and Business Conditions: Rules of the Game for Employment and Growth. Davis’ research interests include job creation and destruc-tion, business cycles, the distribution of consumption and earnings, risk sharing with financial assets, and software pricing and design. Currently, he is working on a third book, Small Business, Entrepreneurship and Economic Performance: Sweden and the United States in Comparative Perspective. His articles have appeared in the Journal of Monetary Economics, American Economic Review and the Journal of Political Economy. Davis is currently a research associate at the National Bureau of Economic Research, a member of the Conference on Research in Income and Wealth and a Principal at the consulting firm Chicago Partners. He serves on the editorial board for Small Business Economics: An International Journal and serves as an expert reviewer for many research foundations, grant-making organizations and professional journals. A recipient of numerous grants and fellowships, Davis is a member of the American Economic Association, the Econometric Society and the Society of Labor Economists. He has been a National Fellow at the Hoover Institution, a Visiting Scholar at the Milken Institute for Job and Capital Formation, and a Visiting Associate Professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and the University of Maryland. Davis received a B.A. in economics from Portland State University in 1980, and an M.A. in 1981 and a Ph.D. in 1986 from Brown University, also in economics. Michael Dawson, a leading national expert on race and politics, has been named the William R. Kenan Jr. Professor in Political Science. Dawson, who is the founding director of the Center for the Study of Race, Politics & Culture, was co-principal investigator of the 1988 National Black Election Study and is principal investigator with Ronald Brown of the 1993-1994 National Black Politics Study. He also is principal investigator for the Black Civil Society Study. His research interests have included the development of quantitative models of African-American political behavior and public opinion, the political effects of urban poverty and African-American political ideology. His book Behind the Mule: Race and Class in African-American Politics was published in 1994. Dawson also is the author of numerous articles on African-American political behavior and race and American politics. He has written the forthcoming book Black Visions: The Roots of Contemporary African American Mass Political Ideologies, which examines several historical trends in African-American political thought, the connections between black political thought and American political thought, and then uses a survey generated by the 1993-1994 National Black Politics Study to determine the presence and influence of these ideological tendencies among grassroots African Americans. Dawson received a B.A. in 1982 from the University of California, Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in 1986 from Harvard University. Robert Gertner, a specialist in business strategy, has been named the Wallace W. Booth Professor of Economics and Strategy in the Graduate School of Business. He has been a member of the University faculty since 1986. Gertner’s current research focuses on the optimal scope for firms; the effects of specialization, communication and incentives on economic decision-making in organizations; and capital allocation processes in organizations. He has served as a Research Fellow at the National Bureau of Economic Research since 1994 and has been a Visiting Associate Professor of Management and Strategy at the Kellogg Graduate School of Management at Northwestern University. He is a co-author of Game Theory and the Law, which he co-wrote with Douglas Baird, the Harry A. Bigelow Distinguished Service Professor in the Law School, and Randal Picker, the Paul and Theo Leffmann Professor of Commercial Law in the Law School. Gertner has contributed to numerous articles that have been published in such journals and scholarly publications as the Quarterly Journal of Economics, the Journal of Law and Economics and the Journal of Finance. Those articles include “Settlement Escrows,” published in the Journal of Legal Studies; “Filling Gaps in Incomplete Law Contract: An Economic Theory of Default Rules,” published in the Yale Law Journal; and “Internal vs. External Capital Markets,” published in the Quarterly Journal of Economics. In addition to authoring scholarly articles, Gertner also has written for non-academic audiences as part of the Financial Times Mastering Strategy Series. He currently co-edits the Journal of Business and is associate editor of the Journal of Industrial Economics. He received an A.B., summa cum laude, in economics from Princeton University in 1981, and a Ph.D. from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1986. Susan Goldin-Meadow, who has done pioneering scholarship in the field of language-learning and cognitive development, has been named the Irving B. Harris Professor in Psychology. She has done extensive research with her students on gesture. She has found, for instance, that children who have never heard a language can nevertheless make up their own gesture language, and that people who are blind and have never seen gesture nevertheless gesture in much the same way sighted people do. Her work also has shown that students perceive information in math lessons that teachers convey unconsciously through their gestures and not in their speech. Goldin-Meadow, who joined the Chicago faculty in 1976 as an Assistant Professor, has published extensively on topics related to gesture. She prepared manuscripts for two books during the past academic year, after she received a John Simon Guggenheim Memorial Foundation fellowship. One manuscript explores language creation (The Resilience of Language: What Gesture Creation in Deaf Children Tells Us About Language-Learning in General) and the other examines the gestures we all produce when we talk (Hearing Gestures: Our Hands Help us Talk and Think). A former associate editor for the journal Developmental Psychology, Goldin-Meadow is currently on the editorial board for Cognitive Development and the new journal Gesture. She also is a member of the board of advisers to the Jean Piaget Society and of the language review panel for the National Institutes of Health. A fellow of the American Psychological Society, Goldin-Meadow also is a member of the American Psychological Association, the Society for Research in Child Development, the American Association for the Advancement of Science, the American Speech and Hearing Association and the Linguistic Society of America. Goldin-Meadow received a B.A. from Smith College in 1971, and an M.A. in 1972 and a Ph.D. in 1975, both in psychology, from the University of Pennsylvania. Richard Hellie, University faculty member since 1966 and a pre-eminent scholar of Medieval and early modern Russian history, has been named the Thomas E. Donnelly Professor in History. He also is Director of the Center for East European and Russian/Eurasian Studies and has been chairman of the College Russian Civilization program and course for three decades. Hellie has written extensively on law, the military and social and economic history. The University Press honored him with the Gordon J. Laing Prize in 1984 for his book Slavery in Russia, 1450-1725. The book was published in 1998 in Russian with a new foreword for the post-Soviet era. He also wrote Enserfment and Military Change in Muscovy, a book published by the University Press in 1972, which was awarded the American Historical Association’s Herbert Baxter Adams Prize. In 1999, Hellie published The Economy and Material Culture of Russia, 1600-1725. Currently, he is working on several projects, including a forthcoming book, The Structure of Modern Russian History. Hellie was editor of The Plow, the Hammer, and the Knout; Essays in Eighteenth-Century Russian Economic History, an effort that completed a project began by Arcadius Kahan, Professor in Economics, who died in 1982. Hellie received an A.B. in 1958, an A.M. in 1960, and a Ph.D. in 1965, all from the University. Charles Larmore, a leading moral and political philosopher, has been named the Chester D. Tripp Professor in the Humanities. Larmore has developed new understandings of the core principles of political liberalism, which will better fit the nature of modern pluralistic societies. He also has written about the foundations of ethics and about the continuing importance of the romantic tradition. He is the author of three books related to liberalism: Patterns of Moral Complexity (1987), The Romantic Legacy (1996) and The Morals of Modernity (1996). Larmore also wrote Modernité et Morale, a book published in France, and has another book in French forthcoming about the self, which is titled Les Pratiques du Moi. He has published scholarly articles in French and German journals and has contributed to such publications as the Journal of Philosophy, The New Republic and Social Philosophy & Policy. Larmore has served on the editorial boards of a number of philosophical journals, including the Journal of Philosophy and Ethics, which is published by the University Press. Before joining the Chicago faculty in 1997, he was professor of philosophy at Columbia University. He received his A.B. in Greek and philosophy from Harvard University in 1972, and his Ph.D. in philosophy from Yale University in 1978. Robert McCulloch, a Professor of Econometrics and Statistics, has been named the Sigmund E. Edelstone Professor of Econometrics and Statistics in the Graduate School of Business. He first became an Assistant Professor of Statistics in the GSB in 1985. McCulloch’s areas of research interest include Bayesian statistics, graphical methods, model selection, Bayesian data mining and target marketing. His research articles have appeared in such journals and scholarly publications as the Journal of Econometrics, the Journal of the American Statistical Association, Marketing Science, Econometric Theory, Journal of Time Series Analysis, the Journal of Applied Econometrics, Technometrics, the Journal of Statistical Planning and Inference, Revue of Financial Studies, Biometrika, and The Statistician. He has contributed to such articles as “Bayesian Treed Models,” published in Machine Learning; “Modelling Covariance Matrices in Terms of Standard Deviations and Correlations, with Application to Shrinkage,” published in Statistica Sinica; and “Hierarchical Priors for Bayesian CART Shrinkage,” published in Statistics and Computing. In addition, he has contributed to several books, including Simulation-Based Inference in Econometrics, Practical Markov Chain Monte Carlo, Modelling and Prediction, Bayesian Analysis in Statistics and Econometrics: Essays in Honor of Arnold Zellner, and Case Studies in Bayesian Statistics. His working papers focus on topics such as “Nonlinearity in High Frequency Financial Data and Hierarchical Models,” “Managing Multiple Models” and “Extracting Representative Tree Models from a Forest.” He has been an elected fellow of the American Statistical Association since 1997. McCulloch received a B.S. with high distinction in mathematics and economics from the University of Toronto in 1981, and an M.S. in 1984 and a Ph.D. in 1985, both in statistics, from the University of Minnesota. Ann McGill, a marketing specialist, has been named the Sears Roebuck Professor of General Management, Marketing and Behavioral Science in the Graduate School of Business. She also serves as Deputy Dean for the full-time M.B.A. programs. McGill’s research focuses on consumer and manager decision-making, with special emphasis on causal explanations, comparative processes and the use of imagery in product choice. She has published numerous articles in academic journals, including “Mutability and Propensity in Causal Selection,” published in the Journal of Personality and Social Psychology, and “Counterfactual Reasoning in Causal Judgment: Implications for Marketing,” published in Psychology and Marketing. She currently serves on the editorial board of the Journal of Consumer Psychology and has been an editorial board member of the Journal of Marketing. She also contributes to the following publications as an ad hoc reviewer: the Journal of Psychology and Social Psychology, the Journal of Experimental Social Psychology, the British Journal of Social Psychology, Social Cognition, and the Journal of Retailing. She is a member of the American Marketing Association, the Association for Consumer Research, the Society of Experimental Social Psychologists and the Society for Judgment and Decision Making. Prior to joining the GSB faculty in 1997, McGill taught at the Kellogg Graduate School of Management at Northwestern University, where she received the 1996 Outstanding Professor Award for the Executive Masters Program, and at New York University. She has been a Visiting Associate Professor of Marketing at the Graduate School of Business at Stanford University, Sasin Graduate Institute of Business Administration at Chulalongkorn University, Thailand, and INSTEAD, France. McGill received a B.B.A. with high distinction in accounting from the University of Michigan in 1979, and an M.B.A. in 1985 and a Ph.D. in 1986 from the University, both in marketing and behavioral science. Fabrizio Michelassi, an expert on the genetics and surgical treatment of colorectal cancer and on the surgical treatment of inflammatory bowel disease, has been named the Thomas D. Jones Professor in Surgery. He has served as vice chairman of the Surgery Department since 2000, chairman of the Surgery Care Center since 1995, and Section Chief of General Surgery since 1994. The author of nearly 100 peer-reviewed journal articles, more than 35 book chapters, seven instructional movies for surgeons, and editor of a book on surgical treatment of inflammatory bowel disease, Michelassi has been a pioneer in the development of new techniques for colorectal surgery. He is president of the Illinois Surgical Society, secretary of the Central Surgical Association, recorder of the Western Surgical Association and a member of the executive committee of the Society of Surgical Oncology. A summa cum laude graduate of the University of Pisa (Italy) School of Medicine, Michelassi completed his surgical residency at New York University and a research fellowship at Massachusetts General Hospital. He taught at New York University from 1977 until 1984, the year he joined the University faculty. He has won numerous awards, including the Distinguished Leadership Award from the Crohn’s and Colitis Foundation of America and the Silver Medal from the University of Bologna. Thomas Rosenbaum, who has been named the James Franck Professor in Physics, is an authority on the quantum mechanical nature of materials––the physics of materials at the subatomic level––that are best observed at temperatures near absolute zero (minus 460 degrees Fahrenheit). He is especially interested in changes of state: how insulators gain the ability to conduct electricity and become metals and how magnets form. The interplay between large-scale correlations and local disorder provides a common theme for Rosenbaum’s investigation of electronic, magnetic and optical materials. Rosenbaum conducted research at Bell Laboratories and at IBM Watson Research Center before he joined the Chicago faculty in 1983. He directed the National Science Foundation Materials Research Laboratory from 1991 to 1994, the Materials Center Research Experience for Undergraduates Program from 1994 to 1997 and the James Franck Institute from 1995 to 2001. His honors include an Alfred Sloan Research Fellowship, a Presidential Young Investigator Award and the William McMillan Award for Outstanding Contributions to Condensed-Matter Physics. He is an elected fellow of the American Physical Society. He also has delivered the Bertman Memorial Lecture at Wesleyan University and he was a Centennial Lecturer of the American Physical Society. Rosenbaum received his bachelor’s degree in physics with honors from Harvard University and both an M.S. and Ph.D. in physics from Princeton University. Steven Sibener has been named the Carl William Eisendrath Professor in Chemistry. Sibener has made important contributions to chemical physics, materials research and nanoscience. He has conducted pioneering molecular beam studies of combustion processes, mechanistic studies of interfacial catalytic reactions and precision measurements on atomic-level dynamics of interfaces. In particular, his innovative use of sophisticated gas-surface scattering instruments has led to advances in these areas of research. Sibener accepted appointment to the Chicago faculty in 1979 while still a graduate student. He then spent a year at Bell Laboratories conducting his postdoctoral research. He returned to Chicago in autumn 1980. Sibener also spent one year at the University of Colorado as a visiting fellow at the Joint Institute for Laboratory Astrophysics. He served as director of the University’s Materials Research Science and Engineering Center from 1997 to 2001, and last July he was appointed Director of the James Franck Institute. He also is founding director of the new multi-university Center for Materials Chemistry in the Space Environment. Sibener’s honors include the Marlow Medal of the Royal Society of Chemistry, an Alfred P. Sloan Foundation research fellowship, a Camille and Henry Dreyfus Young Faculty Award in Chemistry and an IBM Faculty Development Award. He is an elected fellow of the American Physical Society. Sibener received bachelor’s degrees, with honors, in chemistry and physics from the University of Rochester. He earned his M.S. and Ph.D. degrees in chemistry from the University of California, Berkeley. Luigi Zingales, a finance specialist, has been named the first Robert C. McCormack Professor of Entrepreneurship and Finance in the Graduate School of Business. A member of the University faculty since 1992, Zingales currently serves as a Faculty Research Fellow at the National Bureau of Economic Research and as a Research Fellow for the Center for Economic Policy Research. Zingales’ research focuses on the theory of the firm, the relation between organization and financing and the causes and effects of financial developments. He has published numerous articles in academic journals such as the American Economic Review, the Quarterly Journal of Economics, the Journal of Finance and the Review of Financial Studies. His most recent publications include “The Influence of the Financial Revolution on the Nature of Firms,” in the American Economic Review; “The Firm as a Dedicated Hierarchy: A Theory of Origins and the Growth of Firms,” forthcoming in the Quarterly Journal of Economics; and “In Search of New Foundations,” in the Journal of Finance. He also contributed to several books, including The New Palgrave Dictionary of Economics and the Law, Mergers and Productivity, Concentrated Corporate Ownership and Corporate Governance. In 1992, Zingales was selected by the Review of Economic Studies as one of the top seven Ph.D. recipients in Economics that year. He was also awarded the 2000 Brattle Prize: Distinguished Paper Award for outstanding papers on corporate finance that were published in the Journal of Finance. In 1987, he received a B.A., summa cum laude, from Bocconi University, Italy, and in 1992, a Ph.D. from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, both in economics.


--- [Bill Brown | Department of Visual Arts - The University of Chicago] ---
In the past, my research has focused on popular literary genres (e.g. science fiction, the Western), on recreational forms (baseball, kung fu), and on the ways that mass-cultural phenomena (from roller coasters to kodak cameras) impress themselves on the literary imagination. Rather than assuming that historical contexts help to explain a particular literary text, I assume that literature provides access to an otherwise unrecuperable history. That is, I assume that the act of literary analysis (including formal analysis) can become an "historiographical operation" all its own. Currently, I work at the intersection of literary, visual, and material cultures, with an emphasis on what I call "object relations in an expanded field." I'm asking how inanimate objects enable human subjects (individually and collectively) to form and transform themselves: How do individuals try to stabilize the "significance" of their lives through the act of collecting? What role do objects play in the formation of gender, sexual, ethnic, and national subjectivity? How are subcultural formations mediated by objects? What kinds of fetishism have yet to be explained by the logic of either commodity fetishism or erotic fetishism? My approach to such questions makes use of psychoanalysis, materialist phenomenology, and the anthropological discourse on the "social life of things," and I've tried, in a piece called "Thing Theory," to point out how things and thingness might become new objects of critical analysis. The book I'm currently in the midst of includes a wide range of case studies, addressing, for instance: the "poetics of accumulation" and the National Cabinet of Curiosities (before it became the National Museum in 1876), the art criticism of Horatio Greenough, and the proto-anthropological understanding of Pueblo pottery; the fiction and journalism of Djuna Barnes, the photography of Man Ray, and the museal responses to 9/11. I teach courses that are focused on a conceptual question, along with more traditional courses, framed historically. In the past few years I've taught courses on Whitman, on "Urban Fiction and American Space, 1880-1910" (Eng. 459), and on "Modernity and the Sense of Things" (Eng. 292/692 / CMS 274, with Miriam Hansen). More recently I taught a seminar on "Romantic Fetishism" (Eng. 655), which surveyed much of the discourse on fetishism (from, say, Comte to Copjec) as a way to pose new questions about both canonical texts (Walden, Moby-Dick, &c.) and less-than-canonical domestic fiction (Sedgwick's Home, Kirkland's A New Home, Who'll Follow?). I taught a seminar on "Objects and Artifacts" (Eng. 554), which juxtaposed anthropological, philosophical, artistic and literary investigations of "object culture," from Frank Hamilton Cushing's work on the Zuni in the 1880s to the work of Willa Cather and Georgia O'Keefe in the 1920s. And I taught a course on "Kitsch, Camp, and the Politics of Culture" (a course that begins with Kant and ends with Warhol). In 2005-6, I'm teaching the PhD colloquium ("Ontology, Epistemology, Reading") and "The American 1890s." At the undergraduate level, I routinely teach "American Modern: Experimental Fiction" and a course on the visual culture of the 1930s. A Sense of Things: The Object Matter of American Literature (Chicago, 2003). Things, a special issue of Critical Inquiry (Fall, 2001). Reading the West: An Anthology of Dime Novels (Bedford Books, 1997). The Material Unconscious: American Amusement, Stephen Crane, and the Economies of Play (Harvard, 1996). "The Dark Wood of Postmodernity: Space, Faith, Allegory," PMLA (May 2005). "Reification, Reanimation, and the American Uncanny," Critical Inquiry (Winter 2005). "The Matter of Dreiser's Modernity," The Cambridge Companion to Theodore Dreiser (2004). "The Secret Life of Things: Virginia Woolf and the Matter of Modernism," Aesthetic Subjects (Minnesota, 2003). "How To Do Things With Things-A Toy Story," Critical Inquiry (Summer 1998). "Global Bodies / Postnationalities: Charles Johnson's Consumer Culture," Representations (Spring 1997). "Science Fiction, the World's Fair, and the Prosthetics of Empire, 1910-1915," Cultures of U.S. Imperialism (Duke, 1993). "The Meaning of Baseball in 1992 (With Notes on the Post-American)," Public Culture (Fall 1991).
