=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Cornelia Parker - Wikipedia]
In November 2019 Parker opened her first major retrospective exhibition in Australia at the Museum of Contemporary Art, Sydney for the Tenth Sydney International Art Series.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cornelia_Parker

[Cornelia Parker - ICA Boston]
Apr 9, 2000 · The exhibition at The Institute of Contemporary Art was the first American survey of Parker’s art and brought together over sixty works made in the 1990s including many works that were shown for the first time.
URL: https://www.icaboston.org/exhibitions/cornelia-parker/

[Cornelia Parker]
Her first major solo exhibition, Thirty Pieces of Silver, took place at the Ikon Gallery, Birmingham in 1988. Since then she has gone on to exhibit all over ...
URL: https://cristearoberts.com/artists/25-cornelia-parker/

[Artists at the BSR: Charlotte Higgins interviews Cornelia Parker]
Her first solo exhibition was at the Institute of Contemporary Art in Boston in 2000, and in 2022 her work was featured in an important solo exhibition at Tate Britain in London.
URL: https://bsr.ac.uk/artists-at-the-bsr-charlotte-higgins-interviews-cornelia-parker/

[History + Archives]
2000/Exhibitions Cornelia Parker receives her first museum solo exhibition in the U.S.
URL: https://www.icaboston.org/about/history/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Cornelia Parker - Wikipedia] ---
Cornelia Ann Parker  (born 14 July 1956) is an English visual artist, best known for her sculpture and installation art.


--- [Cornelia Parker - ICA Boston] ---
Cornelia Parker’s installations, slide projections, sculptures and photograms consist of “loaded” found objects with a conceptual twist, broaching such topics as destruction and creation, science and religion, gravity and weightlessness. The exhibition at The Institute of Contemporary Art was the first American survey of Parker’s art and brought together over sixty works made in the 1990s including many works that were shown for the first time.


--- [Cornelia Parker] ---
Cornelia Parker Cornelia Parker was born in Cheshire, England, in 1956. She studied at the Gloucestershire College of Art & Design and at Wolverhampton Polytechnic before receiving her MA in Fine Art from the University of Reading in 1982. Parker's art is about destruction, resurrection and reconfiguration. Demonstrating the importance of process, she frequently transforms objects by using seemingly violent techniques such as shooting, exploding, squashing, cutting and burning. Through these actions she both physically alters the object and she herself becomes an active participant in the development of its story. Her first major solo exhibition, Thirty Pieces of Silver, took place at the Ikon Gallery, Birmingham in 1988. Since then she has gone on to exhibit all over the world. Recent solo exhibitions include Tate Britain, London (2022); Cristea Roberts Gallery, London (2020); Museum of Contemporary Art Australia, Sydney (2019); The Palace of Westminster, London (2018); Hayward touring exhibition, UK (2018/19); Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York (2016); Whitworth Gallery, Manchester (2015); Terrace Wires Commission, St Pancras International Station, London (2015); British Library, London, touring to Whitworth Gallery, Manchester and Bodleian Library, Oxford (2015); Ikon Gallery, Birmingham (2014). Parker's work is held in numerous collections worldwide including Tate, London; British Council, London; Centre Pompidou, Paris; Fundacio La Caixa, Barcelona; Museum of Modern Art, New York, and Yale Center for British Art, Connecticut. In 1997 she was shortlisted for the Turner Prize. In 2010 she was elected to the Royal Academy of Arts, London and appointed an Officer of the Order of the British Empire. Parker was appointed a Commander of the Order of the British Empire for services to the Arts in the Queen’s Jubilee Birthday Honours List 2022. She was the UK's official Election Artist for the 2017 general election, making several artworks that are now housed in The Parliamentary Art Collection. In 2023 Parker was commissioned by the UK Government Art Collection to create works in response to Coronation of King Charles III. Cristea Roberts Gallery has been publishing Parker's editions since 2008. Cornelia Parker lives and works in London. Selected works For a complete list of available works by Cornelia Parker please contact sales@cristearoberts.com Making a Mark with Cornelia Parker Cornelia Parker: One of Britain's best loved and most acclaimed contemporary artists on printmaking Films Cornelia Parker: Through a Glass Darkly Exhibition Film Cornelia Parker in conversation with Jonathan Watkins News, Events and Museum Exhibitions Group Exhibition | Inheritance Selected Press See also - Ali Banisadr - Georg Baselitz - Christiane Baumgartner - Rana Begum - Pablo Bronstein - Gordon Cheung - Lubna Chowdhary - Rhys Coren - Michael Craig-Martin - Dexter Dalwood - Ian Davenport - Miriam de Búrca - Jan Dibbets - Jim Dine - Joy Gerrard - Antony Gormley - Marie Harnett - Yinka Ilori - Idris Khan - Langlands & Bell - Hew Locke - Richard Long - David Nash - Paul Noble - Odili Donald Odita - Julian Opie - Mimmo Paladino - Vicken Parsons - Bridget Riley - Eva Rothschild - Francis Ruyter - Yinka Shonibare - Emma Stibbon - Paul Winstanley - Clare Woods - Richard Woods


--- [Artists at the BSR: Charlotte Higgins interviews Cornelia Parker] ---
Our last interview features artist Cornelia Parker, who held a BSR Rome Award in the Fine Arts in 1989 and was shortlisted for the Turner Prize in 1997. Parker is a sculptor whose work engages with the fragility of existence and the transformation of matter. From the suspended fragments of a garden shed (blown up for her by the British Army), to the repurposing of the paper negatives left over from the Richmond Poppy factory, her work transforms everyday objects into unexpected, haunting scenarios. Cornelia Parker studied at the Gloucestershire College of Art and Design (1974–75) and at Wolverhampton Polytechnic (1975–78); she received her MFA from Reading University in 1982. She has also received several honorary doctorates: from the University of Wolverhampton in 2000, the University of Birmingham in 2005, the University of Gloucestershire in 2008 and the University of Manchester in 2017. Her first solo exhibition was at the Institute of Contemporary Art in Boston in 2000, and in 2022 her work was featured in an important solo exhibition at Tate Britain in London. In 2023 she gave a talk at the British School at Rome, as part of the BSR programme Talk Materialities. Cornelia Parker was 33 when she was a fellow at the BSR, between October and December 1989. She had recently made a landmark work, Thirty Pieces of Silver – 30 silver objects including plates, candlesticks and spoons which she had crushed by a steamroller. Soon she would go on to make another famous work, Cold Dark Matter: An Exploded View, for which the army blew up the contents of a garden shed. Her time in Rome coincided with a significant historical moment. She remembers that the artist in the next door studio drove across Europe in the London black cab he owned – and returned with a chunk of the Berlin wall for her. Parker had some ambitious ideas of what she wanted to achieve – she remembers trying to persuade some makers of funeral plaques to work with her. That didn’t quite work out, “but it didn’t matter,” she says. “I spent most of my time walking around Rome, what I call nut-gathering” – thinking and looking. She loved the Pantheon, the Forum and the Via Appia Antica, as well as poking around the weekly Porta Portese flea market. She recalls a very different, and sometimes perilous, Rome from the largely safe city of today, including some hairy nocturnal walks through the Giardini Borghese. “I loved the wildness of it,” she says. “I thought of Rome as earth and fire as opposed to Venice’s air and water. Rome had a kind of subterranean feel to it.” She did develop one significant work: an installation she called Inhaled Fruit, for which she threaded quantities of dried fruit – chillis, cherries, pineapple – on wire through her studio, which she lit with a bare lightbulb. “The material seemed to sum up the intoxicating richness of the city, which sometimes could be cloying, overpowering,” she wrote later. She refined the work in 1999 for a project in Spitalfields Market, London, renaming it Fruit Swarm. The BSR of the time had the air of an Oxford or Cambridge college, with its nightly formal dinners in the refectory (nowadays formal dinners are reserved for Wednesday nights and the everyday atmosphere is more relaxed and friendly). Parker and her fellow residents undercut the solemnity with some “riotous” nights. It was a friendly group, she recalls. “I enjoyed the archaeologists. I’ve worked with archaeologists, have friends who are archaeologists. Archaeology is perhaps more parallel to my practice than pure fine art.” One of her more remarkable memories was visiting a fellow artist for dinner who was staying in a very beautiful, very white apartment borrowed from a film director in Trastevere. “I remember going to the bathroom and thinking, ‘I’m sitting on Bernardo Bertolucci’s loo”, she says.


--- [History + Archives] ---
Founded in 1936 as the Boston Museum of Modern Art—a sister institution to New York’s MoMA—the museum was conceived as a laboratory where innovative approaches to art could be championed. The museum established a reputation for identifying important new artists, and in pursuit of this mission, eventually parted ways with MoMA and changed its name to the Institute of Contemporary Art in 1948. As the ICA’s reputation grew around the nation, it paved the way for other institutes and museums of “contemporary art” as well as artists’ spaces and alternative venues. For 85 years, the ICA has presented contemporary art in all media—visual arts, performance, film, video, and literature—and created educational programs that encourage appreciation for contemporary culture. At the close of the 1990s, several innovative programs strengthened the ICA’s public role, including the teen filmmaking program Fast Forward, and ICA/Vita Brevis, whose temporary installations throughout public spaces in Boston drew critical and popular acclaim. In 2006, the ICA opened its visionary new building, designed by Diller Scofidio + Renfro, on the Boston waterfront. In its new facility, the ICA has expanded the scope and size of its exhibitions and programs—increasing its audiences tenfold and serving as a catalyst for contemporary art in Boston. Throughout its history the ICA has been at the fore in identifying and supporting the most important artists of its time and bringing them to public attention. Among the artists whose work has been introduced to U.S. audiences by the ICA are Georges Braque, Oskar Kokoschka, and Edvard Munch. Andy Warhol, Robert Rauschenberg, Laurie Anderson, and Roy Lichtenstein were each the subject of ICA presentations early in their careers. More recently, the ICA was pivotal in the careers of numerous visual and performing artists including Bill Viola, Kara Walker, Cildo Meireles, Cindy Sherman, Cornelia Parker, Shepard Fairey, Young Jean Lee, Jay Scheib, Trajal Harrell, and Rashaun Mitchell. In 2025, the ICA launched a major project to process its archival materials spanning nearly 90 years, making them more accessible and offering new insights into the institution’s legacy and contemporary art’s evolving narrative. Learn more about the ICA Archives Timeline 1936 The ICA incorporates as the Boston Museum of Modern Art, a “renegade offspring of the Museum of Modern Art” in New York (MoMA). Among the oldest museums in the United States dedicated solely to contemporary art, the ICA is led in its earliest years by young architect Nathaniel Saltonstall—then a spry 26 years old—as well as senior trustees W.G. Russell Allen and Thomas N. Metcalf. 1936/Location Offices are rented at 114 State Street, and gallery space is provided by the Fogg and Busch-Reisinger Museums at Harvard University in Cambridge. 1937/Location The ICA relocates to 14 Newbury Street in Boston. Museum admission is 25 cents. 1938 Leading the way in presenting both visual and performance art, the ICA sponsors the debut performance of the Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo, which includes works produced in collaboration with Pablo Picasso and Henri Matisse. 1938/Location The ICA relocates to the Boston Art Club at 270 Dartmouth Street. 1939 The Walker Art Center is founded. 1939 James S. Plaut becomes the institution’s first director, defining its identity as an “experimental laboratory” for contemporary art. 1940/Exhibitions As part of Picasso: Forty Years of His Art—organized by MoMA’s Alfred Barr—the ICA presents the Boston premiere of Picasso’s 1937 antiwar masterpiece Guernica, conceived in response to the Spanish Civil War, all the more timely as World War II sweeps the globe. 1940/Location The ICA relocates to 210 Beacon Street. 1941 The San Diego Museum of Contemporary Art is founded. 1941/Exhibitions Modern Mexican Painters presents the work of Frida Kahlo, José Clemente Orozco, Diego Rivera, and David Alfaro Siqueiros, among others. 1942/Director Founding trustees Thomas Metcalf and W.G. Russell Allen step in as acting co-directors while James Plaut leaves Boston to serve in the war. Plaut’s wartime activities (1942–46) include directing the Art Looting Investigation Unit, the intelligence unit of the storied “Monuments Men and Women” responsible for preserving the artistic and cultural achievements of western civilization from the destruction of war and theft by the Nazis. 1943/Exhibitions The first survey in New England of African American artists focuses on the Harlem Renaissance and its legacy, with paintings and sculptures by Romare Bearden and Jacob Lawrence, among others. 1943/Location The ICA relocates to 138 Newbury Street. 1948 The Contemporary Art Museum, Houston is founded. 1948/New Identity Setting off heated debate in the art world, the museum changes its name from the Boston Museum of Modern Art to the Institute of Contemporary Art, disassociating itself from “widespread and injurious misunderstandings” the term “modern art” had accrued during the war era and aligning itself instead with the art of the time. 1950/Exhibitions Six Women Painters from New England presents works by Maud Morgan and I. Rice Pereira, among others, and contests the long-standing under-representation of women in the arts. Early in the American reception of Edvard Munch, the ICA presents a major career survey that includes the expressionist’s now-iconic work The Scream (1893–1910). 1950/News The ICA makes national news with a statement co-signed with the Whitney and MoMA that affirms the dedication of all three museums to the exploration of new frontiers in artistic practice. 1951/Exhibitions A survey of British art since the turn of the century features the work of eminent painter Francis Bacon and the young Lucian Freud, soon to become one of the most distinguished painters of the twentieth century. 1952/Exhibitions A comprehensive traveling exhibition of Bauhaus founder Walter Gropius surveys his formative role in the emergence of modernist architecture and design. 1952/Exhibitions In one of the earliest U.S. retrospectives dedicated to Wassily Kandinsky, the ICA explores the artist’s foundational role in the development of abstraction, including 52 major paintings, among them 28 never before exhibited in this country. 1955/Exhibitions ICA director James Plaut co-juries the 24th Corcoran Biennial, which travels from Washington, D.C., to Boston, introducing audiences to recent paintings by Adolph Gottlieb and Willem de Kooning, among others. 1956/Director Thomas Messer is appointed director, serving in that position until 1962. 1956/Exhibitions The ICA hosts The Gulf-Caribbean International, organized by the Houston Museum of Fine Arts, emphasizing the importance of cultural and geographic diversity in contemporary art. 1956/Location The ICA moves to new quarters at 230 The Fenway. 1957/Exhibitions The ICA celebrates twenty years at the forefront of contemporary art in Boston with highlights from previous exhibitions. Selection 1957 inaugurates an annual exhibition program surveying New England artists, organized most years through 1964. 1958/Exhibitions Eminent art historian William Rubin organizes the first U.S. museum survey dedicated to Spanish painter Roberto Matta (sponsored by MoMA in collaboration with the Walker Art Center in Minneapolis and the ICA). 1959/Exhibitions Young Talent in New England takes art outside the museum: installed on the walls of a Stop & Shop store on Memorial Drive, the exhibition displays the work of regional artists and anticipates the growing interest in American consumer culture among pop artists such as Claes Oldenburg and Andy Warhol. 1960/Exhibitions The ICA organizes an unprecedented U.S. museum exhibition dedicated to the career of Viennese expressionist Egon Schiele. 1960/Location Newly designed by architect and ICA founder Nathaniel Saltonstall, the Metropolitan Boston Arts Center, at 1175 Soldiers Field Road, becomes the museum’s home for two years. 1963 The Institute of Contemporary Art, Philadelphia is founded. 1963/Location The ICA relocates to 100 Newbury Street. 1964/Exhibitions The 32nd Venice Biennale signals the sensational arrival of American Pop art on the international scene. A concurrent exhibition at the ICA celebrates the artists representing the U.S. in Venice: John Chamberlain, Jim Dine, Jasper Johns, Morris Louis, Kenneth Nland, Claes Oldenburg, Robert Rauschenberg, and Frank Stella. 1965/Exhibitions London: The New Scene, organized by the Walker Art Center, is one of the earliest exhibitions to introduce U.S. audiences to the work of Bridget Riley. 1965/Exhibitions At an early moment in the history of electronic media and video art, Art Turned On brings together some of its leading pioneers, including Dan Flavin, Robert Whitman, and Fluxus artists Ay-O and Joe Jones. Marcel Duchamp attends the exhibition and takes a special interest in Jones’s Music Plant. Received ideas about mark-making, gesture, and authorship come under scrutiny in Painting Without a Brush, presenting works by Helen Frankenthaler, Morris Louis, Jackson Pollock, Jean Tinguely, and Andy Warhol, among others. 1966/Exhibitions The ICA organizes the second museum exhibition dedicated to Andy Warhol, with nearly 40 iconic works—soon to become touchstones of 20th-century art history—as well as staging a performance of the landmark intermedia work Exploding Plastic Inevitable by Warhol and the Velvet Underground. 1967 The Museum of Contemporary Art, Chicago is founded. 1968/Director Andrew Hyde is appointed director and serves in that position until 1974, with a one-year interlude (1971–72) during which artist Christopher Cook leads the organization, with a focus on conceptual art. 1968/Location The ICA returns to 1175 Soldiers Field Road. 1970/Location Parkman House at 33 Beacon Street becomes the ICA’s new temporary home. 1971 With the exhibition Monumental Sculpture for Public Spaces, the ICA brings art into the public arena. Outdoor sculptural interventions by Alexander Calder, Donald Judd, Robert Morris, Louise Nevelson, Claes Oldenburg, Mark di Suvero, and others spring up around the city. At City Hall Plaza, Robert Indiana erects a 12-foot-high steel version of his iconic work LOVE. 1972/Location The ICA moves to 137 Newbury Street. 1973/Location A transformed police headquarters at 955 Boylston Street becomes the ICA’s new home for the next 33 years. 1974/Director Cambridge sculptor Sydney Rockefeller serves as acting director until the appointment in 1975 of Gabriella Jepson, who serves as director until 1978. 1974/Exhibitions An exhibition observing the rise of postminimalism features work by Ree Morton and Hannah Wilke, among others. A two-person exhibition pairs paintings by Joan Snyder and Pat Steir. 1975/Exhibitions Photographs, maps, and drawings document Christo and Jeanne-Claude’s Ocean Front (1974), their most recent public intervention. The ICA returns to the couple’s oeuvre in 1979, organizing a major survey of their urban projects. 1976/Exhibitions Organized by the ICA and the Walker Art Center, Six Themes offers one of the first major retrospectives of the work of Claes Oldenburg, who attends the exhibition and delivers a public lecture. 1976/News The ICA launches the Open City Youth Program, a precursor to the museum’s nationally recognized Teen Arts Education program. 1977 The New Museum is founded. 1978/Director Stephen Prokopoff joins the ICA as director, serving in that position until 1982. 1978/Exhibitions Modern Works is the first survey to examine Roy Lichtenstein’s shift in 1965 from comics and caroons to canonical works of modernist art as sources for his imagery. 1978/Performance Paul Taylor Dance Company performs at the ICA with set and costumes by Boston-based artist Alex Katz. 1979 The Museum of Contemporary Art, Los Angeles (LA MOCA) is founded. 1980/Exhibitions The ICA mounts Florine Stettheimer: Still Lifes, Portraits and Pageants, 1910–1942, a successor to her retrospective at Museum of Modern Art in 1946. Stettheimer is recognized as one of the most individualistic American painters of the era between the wars. 1982/Director David Ross joins the ICA as director, serving in that position until 1990. 1982/Exhibitions The ICA organizes Art and Dance, examining a century of exchange between visual art and dance from 1890 to 1980, featuring works by dozens of artists, including Merce Cunningham, Marcel Duchamp, and Yvonne Rainer. 1984 The Pérez Art Museum Miami is founded. 1986 In conjunction with the ICA’s 50th anniversary, the museum launches a landmark project including a major print catalogue and three exhibitions around Dissent: The Issue of Modern Art in Boston. This important project analyzes the distinct attitudes and ideas, during the first half of the 20th century, that set Boston modern art apart from the mainstream as defined by New York City. 1989/Exhibitions Pioneering performance and conceptual artist Chris Burden receives his first U.S. museum survey, organized by the Newport Harbor Art Museum and shown at the ICA. 1990 The Hammer Museum is founded. 1990 Robert Mapplethorpe’s first U.S. museum survey culminates at the ICA after traveling nationally from the Institute of Contemporary Art, Philadelphia. At two other venues, the exhibition’s homoerotic content becomes embroiled in a highly visible censorship scandal involving the National Endowment for the Arts, U.S. Congress, and conservative organizations, serving as a cause célèbre for both sides of the Culture Wars. The ICA’s determination to proceed with the exhibition in the midst of this heated debate testifies to its commitment to artists over politics, and to speaking out against censorship. 1990/Director Milena Kalinovska joins the ICA as director, serving in that position until 1998. 1993 The Yerba Buena Center for the Arts is founded. 1993/Exhibitions WIth works by such artists as David Hammons and Glenn Ligon, Malcolm X: Man, Ideal, Icon explores the cultural and political legacy of one of the most galvanizing African-American leaders in U.S. history. 1995/Exhibitions Prominent British artist Rachel Whiteread, recipient of the 1993 Turner Prize, receives her second U.S. museum survey. The Boston School is the first museum exhibition to identify common threads in the work of Philip-Lorca diCorcia, Nan Goldin, Jack Pierson, Shellburne Thurber, and other photographers living and working in Boston in the late 1970s and the ’80s. Felix Gonzalez-Torres, Paul McCarthy, and David Wojnarowicz participate in CURRENTS. 1995/Film The ICA introduces Boston audiences to the productions of filmmaker Steve McQueen. 1996/Exhibitions Curated by Catherine de Zegher, Inside the Visible acknowledges under-recognized contributions by women artists in the 20th century, with works by Louise Bourgeois, Lygia Clark, Eva Hesse, Nancy Spero, and Carrie Mae Weems. New Histories spotlights contemporary artists of African and African American descent whose work addresses the history and daily realities of racism, such as Isaac Julien, Kara Walker, and Fred Wilson. 1997/Exhibitions One of Brazil’s most influential contemporary artists, conceptualist Cildo Meireles, receives the first major U.S. museum exhibition of his career. Enterprise reflects the emergence of Relational Aesthetics (the term first coined in 1996), featuring work by Rikrit Tiravanija, and, in their first U.S. museum show, Vanessa Beecroft and Liam Gillick. 1998/Director As the 11th director of the ICA, Jill Medvedow brings a bold vision for artistic and civic leadership to the museum, shepherding important exhibitions, programs for teens, and a new home on Boston’s waterfront. 1998/Public Art Jill Medvedow launches Vita Brevis at the museum, an ongoing series that commissions local, national, and international artists to create temporary works of art in public settings. Krzysztof Wodiczko and Jim Hodges are among the first artists to receive commissions. 1999 The Massachusetts Museum of Contemporary Art (MASS MoCA) opens its doors in North Adams, Massachusetts. 1999/Exhibitions Jim Hodges explores the devastation wrought by the AIDS crisis in one of the first solo museum exhibitions of his career, organized by the Museum of Contemporary Art in Chicago. African American artist Kerry James Marshall receives his first major U.S. museum exhibition. 1999/News The ICA wins a citywide bid to develop a new building for the museum on Boston’s Fan Pier. 2000/Exhibitions Cornelia Parker receives her first museum solo exhibition in the U.S. 2001/Exhibitions Olafur Eliasson receives his first U.S. museum solo exhibition. A companion ICA/Vita Brevis project by Eliasson introduces a temporary floating park moored to Boston’s Fan Pier, adjacent to the ICA’s future home at 100 Northern Avenue. Rineke Dijkstra receives her first U.S. survey. 2001/News After a competitive selection process, New York architecture firm Diller Scofidio is commissioned to design the new ICA. 2006/Location The ICA opens its new world-class, 62,000-square-foot building designed by Diller Scofidio + Renfro on Boston’s waterfront, and establishes a permanent collection of 20th- and 21st-century art with works by Paul Chan, Marlene Dumas, Mona Hatoum, Christian Jankowski, and Cornelia Parker. 2007/Performance The ICA presents the world premiere of Looky by the Mark Morris Dance Group. 2008/Exhibitions The ICA organizes Anish Kapoor’s first U.S. museum survey in more than 15 years, and presents the first museum survey of Tara Donovan’s work. 2009/Exhibitions In conjunction with Shepard Fairey: Supply and Demand, the first museum survey of one of the most influential street artists of our time, the artist creates public artworks at sites around Boston and a new mural for the ICA. 2010 Jenny Holzer presents a new text projection on the exterior of the ICA as part of her collaboration with Bessie Award–winning choreographer Miguel Gutierrez. 2011 In its 75th-anniversary year, the ICA welcomes its 1 millionth visitor to the new waterfront location and presents Dance/Draw, an ambitious thematic exhibition that investigates the connections between visual art and dance over the past 50 years. 2011/Performance ICA commissions and hosts the world premiere of Body Against Body by the Bill T. Jones/Arnie Zane Dance Company. 2012 First Lady Michelle Obama presents the ICA with the National Arts and Humanities Youth Program Award from the President’s Committee on the Arts and the Humanities, the highest honor awarded to youth programs in the United States. 2012 Brazilian twin-brother street artist duo Os Gemeos are the first artists to create a mural on a large Big Dig ventilation structure on the Rose Kennedy Greenway, in partnership with the Greenway Conservancy. The mural, depicting a boy in brightly colored clothing, accompanies the artists’ first solo exhibition in the U.S. 2013/Exhibitions This Will Have Been: Art, Love & Politics in the 1980s, featuring artwork by Jean-Michel Basquiat, Felix Gonzalez-Torres, the Guerrilla Girls, Jeff Koons, Robert Mapplethorpe, Richard Prince, Gerhard Richter, Doris Salcedo, Cindy Sherman, and Tseng Kwong Chi with Keith Haring, receives wide critical acclaim, attracting record crowds. 2014 The ICA establishes The Barbara Lee Collection of Art by Women with a gift of 43 works by 25 international female artists, expanding the museum’s holding by 30 percent. A mix of paintings, photographs, sculptures, and drawings, the collection includes works by Louise Bourgeois, Tara Donovan, Marlene Dumas, Eva Hesse, Yayoi Kusama, Doris Salcedo, and Cindy Sherman, among others. 2014/Exhibitions The influential Fiber: Sculpture 1960–Present considers cultural and critical forces shaping abstract fiber art with works by 34 artists including Magdalena Abakanowicz, Françoise Grossen, Eva Hesse, Sheila Hicks, Lenore Tawney, Rosemarie Trockel, and Haegue Yang. 2015 In the largest gift ever made to the museum, trustee Barbara Lee donates 20 works by 12 artists to become part of the Barbara Lee Collection of Art by Women including a room-sized installation by Kara Walker exploring the legend of Huckleberry Finn, as well as works by Louise Bourgeois, Carol Bove, Ellen Gallagher, Eva Hesse, and Sherrie Levine. 2015/Exhibitions The ICA presents Leap Before You Look: Black Mountain College 1933–1957, the first comprehensive museum exhibition on the influential school in the United States. The exhibition features works by more than 90 artists, including Anni and Josef Albers, John Cage, Robert Rauschenberg, Elaine and Willem de Kooning, Buckminster Fuller, Ruth Asawa, Robert Motherwell, Gwendolyn and Jacob Knight Lawrence, Charles Olson, and Robert Creeley, as well as archival materials, a soundscape, and a piano and a dance floor for live performances including recreations of rediscovered work by Merce Cunningham. 2015/Exhibitions Chicago-based artist Diane Simpson presented elegantly constructed, architectural sculptures in her first major museum exhibition (at the age of 80). 2016/Exhibitions The ICA presents the first mid-career survey of the work of Boston-born artist Liz Deschenes, whose singular and influential achievements in photography and sculpture consider light, color, and the relationship between the mechanics of seeing, image-making processes, and modes of display. 2017/Exhibitions The ICA organizes the first U.S. survey of the work of artist Mark Dion. Mark Dion: Misadventures of a 21st-Century Naturalist examined 30 years of his pioneering inquiries into how we collect, interpret, and display nature. A highlight of the exhibition, the installation The Library for the Birds of New York/The Library for the Birds of Massachusetts, brought live canaries and finches to the galleries. 2018 The ICA opens the ICA Watershed in the Boston Harbor Shipyard and Marina in East Boston, transforming a 15,000-square-foot, formerly condemned space into a vast and welcoming space to see and experience large-scale art. Designed by Anmahian Winton Architects, the new space opened for its first season in June 2018, prompting the City of Boston to declare June 22 ICA Watershed Day. 2018 The ICA hosts Building Brave Spaces: Mobilizing Teen Arts Education, an unprecedented national gathering to reflect and build upon the knowledge and field-wide progress made in teen arts education since the establishment in 2008 of the ICA’s groundbreaking Teen Convenings. 2018/Exhibitions Art in the Age of the Internet, 1989 to Today examines the boundless influence the internet has had on all facets of our lives, from work to dating to privacy to how we understand our bodies and ourselves. Critically acclaimed, the exhibition includes a museum-spanning performance by Ryan McNamara, MEEM 4 Boston: A Story Ballet About the Internet, a citywide Art + Tech collaboration with more than a dozen cultural institutions, and the ICA’s first-ever virtual reality commission, by artist Jon Rafman. 2018/Exhibitions The ICA presents the first comprehensive American exhibition of artwork by celebrated choreographer William Forsythe. Visitors are invited to physically interact with the works. 2019 The ICA announces the acquisition of Yayoi Kusama’s LOVE IS CALLING, the largest of her popular Infinity Mirror Rooms to date. Featuring vividly colored, tentacle-like inflatable sculptures covered with the artist’s signature polka dots in an endlessly reflecting mirrored room, LOVE IS CALLING is one of Kusama’s most psychedelic, immersive installations. The ICA exhibited an early Infinity Mirror Room, now titled Endless Love Show, in the exhibition Multiplicity in 1966. 2019/Exhibitions In the Watershed, John Akomfrah’s Purple, an immersive six-channel video installation co-commissioned by the ICA, makes its U.S. premiere. 2022 The ICA is selected to commission the U.S. Pavilion at the Venice Biennale with a historic presentation of Simone Leigh, the first Black woman to represent the United States. The works go on view in Boston in 2023 as part of a national tour survey of Leigh’s work. 2025/Director Nora Burnett Abrams joins as the 12th director of the ICA.
