=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[2004 American League Championship Series - Wikipedia]
The 2004 Yankees began the season in Tokyo with a split against the Devil Rays. Playing a much-anticipated game against the Red Sox, the team lost the game 6-2 and 6 out of the first 7 games to their rivals. After falling as many as 41⁄2 games behind the Red Sox on April 25, the team would make up the deficit in less than 2 weeks, including an 8-game win streak. By the end of June, they ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2004_American_League_Championship_Series

[2004 American League Championship Series (ALCS) Game 5, Yankees at Red ...]
Boston Red Sox beat New York Yankees (5-4). Oct 18, 2004, Attendance: 35120, Time of Game: 5:49. Visit Baseball-Reference.com for the complete box score, play-by-play, and win probability.
URL: https://www.baseball-reference.com/boxes/BOS/BOS200410180.shtml

[2004 World Champions: ALCS Game 5 - RedSoxDiehard.com]
Pedro Martinez started Game 5 for the Sox, with the chance to redeem himself after the way the deciding game of last year's ALCS turned out. He started off well, striking out two in the first inning.
URL: http://www.redsoxdiehard.com/worldseries/games/alcs5recap.html

[Retro Recap, 2004 ALCS Game 5: Another Papi Walkoff, and the Best Game ...]
Oct 20, 2014 · There may not be a more tense game in the history of the Red Sox than the fifth game of the 2004 American League Championship Series. There was Jeter trumping Pedro, and Wakefield pitching to ...
URL: https://www.boston.com/sports/boston-red-sox/2014/10/20/retro_recap_2004_alcs_game_5/

[Red Sox 5-4 Yankees (Oct 18, 2004) Game Recap - ESPN]
Oct 18, 2014 · Expert recap and game analysis of the Boston Red Sox vs. New York Yankees MLB game from October 18, 2004 on ESPN.
URL: https://www.espn.com/mlb/recap/_/gameId/241018102


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [2004 American League Championship Series - Wikipedia] ---
The 2004 American League Championship Series was a semifinal series in Major League Baseball's 2004 postseason deciding the American League champion earning the privilege to play in the 2004 World Series. A rematch of the previous year's ALCS, it was played between the Boston Red Sox, who had won the AL wild card and defeated the Anaheim Angels in the American League Division Series, and the New York Yankees, who had won the AL East with the best record in the AL and defeated the Minnesota Twins. The Red Sox became the first, and to date only, team in MLB history to come back from a 3–0 series deficit and ultimately win a best-of-seven series. The 2004 ALCS and the subsequent World Series has often been described as the "greatest comeback in sports history". 
In Game 1, Yankees pitcher Mike Mussina pitched a perfect game through six innings, while the Red Sox recovered from an eight-run deficit to close within one run before the Yankees eventually won. A home run by John Olerud helped the Yankees win Game 2. The Yankees gathered 22 hits in Game 3 on their way to a blowout win. The Yankees led Game 4 by one run in the ninth inning, but a steal of second base by Red Sox base runner Dave Roberts and a single by Bill Mueller off Yankees closer Mariano Rivera tied the game. David Ortiz hit a home run in extra innings for the Red Sox win. In Game 5, the Red Sox overcame an eighth inning deficit, and Ortiz hit a 14th inning walk-off single for the Red Sox for their second consecutive extra-innings victory. Curt Schilling pitched seven innings in Game 6 for the Red Sox, during which time his right foot sock became soaked in blood due to an outstanding ankle injury. Game 7 featured the Red Sox paying back New York for their Game 3 blowout with a dominant performance on the road, anchored by Derek Lowe and bolstered by two Johnny Damon home runs including a grand slam. David Ortiz was named the Most Valuable Player of the series.
The Red Sox went on to sweep the St. Louis Cardinals in the World Series, winning their first World Series championship in 86 years and ending the so-called Curse of the Bambino.


--- [2004 American League Championship Series (ALCS) Game 5, Yankees at Red ...] ---
2004 American League Championship Series (ALCS) Game 5, Yankees at Red Sox, October 18 2004 AL Championship Series Series Summary | 1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7 | 8 | 9 | 10 | 11 | 12 | 13 | 14 | R | H | E | || |---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---| | New York Yankees | 0 | 1 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 3 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 4 | 12 | 1 | | | Boston Red Sox | 2 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 2 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 1 | 5 | 13 | 1 | | | WP: Tim Wakefield (1-0) • LP: Esteban Loaiza (0-1) | |||||||||||||||||| | Winning Run scored with 2 outs | New York Yankees Boston Red Sox Other Info Starting Lineups Win Probability Chart - Explanation of WPA - Mouse over chart for play descriptions


--- [2004 World Champions: ALCS Game 5 - RedSoxDiehard.com] ---
| American League Championship Series Game 5 October 18, 2004 • Fenway Park, Boston Red Sox 5, Yankees 4 (14 innings) Box Score 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 R H E _____________________________________ ______ NYY 0 1 0 0 0 3 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 4 12 1 BOS 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 1 5 13 1 | Despite the late hour at which Game 4 ended, I wasn't tired at work the next day. I was energized by the win, and happy that the season wasn't over. People steered clear of me because they knew I had been to the awful Game 3 over the weekend, but instead I was upbeat, telling them, "All we have to do is win the next three, and then the fact that I went to the stinker of the series will be nothing more than a funny footnote." (They of course just answered with a sympathetic shake of the head, convinced that the Sox' one victory was merely postponing the inevitable.) I left work early, joking that with the 5:00 start at least the game wouldn't go till midnight tonight, and got home just as it was starting. I was too stressed to think about supper; I normally don't eat until 7 or 7:30 anyway, so I figured I'd just grab something when the game was over around 8:00... Pedro Martinez started Game 5 for the Sox, with the chance to redeem himself after the way the deciding game of last year's ALCS turned out. He started off well, striking out two in the first inning. Mike Mussina started for the Yankees, and unlike Game 1, the Sox took an early lead off him. After Johnny Damon grounded out to lead off the inning, three straight singles by Orlando Cabrera, Manny Ramirez, and David Ortiz scored one run, and later in the inning a bases-loaded walk by Jason Varitek plated another. The Yankees got one run right back, when Bernie Williams homered to lead off the second, but both pitchers cuised from there. Both teams got two baserunners on in the third but couldn't score. The Yankees had one baserunner in the fourth, and both teams got a man on in the fifth, but the score remained 2-1, Red Sox. In the top of the sixth, two singles and a hit batsman loaded the bases for the Yankees with two outs. On Pedro's 100th pitch of the night, Derek Jeter knocked a double into right field, clearing the bases and giving the Yankees a 4-2 lead. Here we go again! So much for the optimism I had felt all day! Living to see another day would take another come-from-behind rally, and there were only four innings left to do it. The Red Sox went in order in their half of the sixth. Mike Timlin came in for the seventh and allowed only a harmless two-out infield hit. Mark Bellhorn doubled to open the bottom of the seventh, chasing Mussina from the game. Tanyon Sturtze got one out but walked Cabrera, making way for Tom Gordon. He got Ramirez to ground into a double play to end the inning. Timlin continued into the eighth, but a double, a sacrifice, and a walk put runners at the corners with two out. Keith Foulke was called in to face the dangerous Hideki Matsui, and got him to fly out to end the inning. Manny's double play to end the seventh meant Ortiz would lead off the eighth. He was the hero of Game 4, and did his part to be one of the heroes of Game 5, quickly depositing a Tom Gordon offering into the Green Monster seats to make it 4-3 and pull the Sox within a run. Next up was Kevin Millar, who had started last night's game-tying rally with a walk. He walked again tonight, and again Dave Roberts came in to pinch-run. Roberts danced back and forth off the bag again. He didn't steal this time, but Gordon was so preoccupied with keeping him at first that he surrendered a single to Trot Nixon, and Roberts wound up on third. Gabe Kapler pinch-ran for Nixon, and Mariano Rivera came in to try to end the threat (again) and close out the game (again). But Varitek wasn't about to let that happen. He lofted a ball to center field, while Roberts tagged and raced home with the tying run. Again! Foulke had thrown 2 2/3 innings last night, so it wasn't certain how long he could go tonight. He got two quick outs, but then walked Ruben Sierra. Tony Clark was next. He had played for the Red Sox a couple of years ago, but it had been the worst season of his career offensively. He was just the sort of player who historically has done in the Sox. This time he dumped a hit down the right field line onto the warning track, a sure extra-base hit that would allow Sierra to score the go-ahead run all the way from first... But it missed hitting the top of the wall and staying in play by mere inches, landing instead in the stands. It was a ground-rule double, and Sierra had to hold up at third! Foulke quickly got Miguel Cairo to foul out to first to end the threat. As the game headed into the bottom of the ninth, Tim Wakefield, Derek Lowe, and Curt Schilling walked across the field from the dugout to the bullpen, to an emotional ovation. It was unlikely that any of them could see action tonight. Lowe had started yesterday's game and gone 5 1/3 innings. Curt was scheduled to pitch Game 6 the next day, and that was only if he was able to wear a shoe that was being specially constructed just for him to stabilize his injured ankle. Wakefield seemed likely to start Game 7, but only if they were able to win tonight's game first. But the idea was that these three starters - as well as everyone else on the team - were willing to give everything they had and do whatever was necessary to win. Johnny Damon reached on an infield single to open the bottom of the ninth, but he was caught stealing and the inning quickly ended. Bronson Arroyo pitched a 1-2-3 tenth, finishing with a strikeout of Gary Sheffield, who was serenaded with "Who's your dealer?" chants all weekend - a perfect blend of the "Who's your Daddy?" chants from New York and Sheffield's admitted steroid use. When Ortiz led off the bottom of the tenth, everyone hoped he would come through again in extra innings like he had last night, but he struck out. Doug Mientkiewicz hit a ground rule double off Felix Heredia, but Paul Quantrill came in and got out of the inning. Arroyo had only pitched one quick inning, but somebody needed to be available for tomorrow's game in case Curt wasn't able to go very long, so with left-handed Matsui due up, Mike Myers started the eleventh. He struck out Matsui, then gave way to Alan Embree, who allowed a single to Bernie Williams but got out of the inning unscathed. Bill Mueller and Mark Bellhorn singled in the bottom of the eleventh, but Damon popped up a bunt attempt for the first out, and Esteban Loaiza got Cabrera to ground into a double play. Wakefield came in for the twelfth, again sacrificing his chance to start a potential Game 7 for the good of his teammates. Cairo singled, but that was all the Yankees were able to do. Ortiz walked with one out in the bottom of the inning, but he was thrown out trying to steal second in a surprise move. Although replays showed that he had really been safe, it was a costly out, and the inning quickly ended. The thirteenth was an adventure for Wakefield and Varitek, who hadn't caught the knuckleballer much during the regular season. With two outs, Matsui reached base when strike three got past Varitek. He moved to second on another passed ball, and after Jorge Posada was intentionally walked, both runners moved up on the third passed ball of the inning. Finally, Sierra struck out and Varitek held on to end the threat. The Sox did nothing in the bottom half, and Wake and Tek had a much smoother fourteenth, retiring the Yankees in order. As the bottom of the fourteenth began, it was almost 11:00. The NLCS game between the St. Louis Cardinals and Houston Astros which had started at 8:00 was in the seventh inning. Our game was approaching the six hour mark, and I thought it would be funny if the night game finished before ours. Bellhorn struck out to open the inning, and Damon was next. He was hitting only .083 so far in the series, and had already been caught stealing and popped up a bunt attempt in tonight's game. But this time he walked. Cabrera struck out for the second out, bringing up Ramirez. Manny had yet to knock in a run in the series, but with the hitters at the top of the order struggling, he hadn't had many RBI opportunities. This time he walked, moving Damon to second. In stepped Ortiz, as the crowd chanted "Papi, Papi!" He swung and missed for strike one, took a ball, fouled off a pitch, fouled off another, and then launched a towering shot down the right field line that had home run distance... but hooked foul. After ball two, he fouled off three more pitches. Finally, on the tenth pitch of the at-bat, he hit the perfect bloop into shallow center field, just out of the reach of the fielders who converged on it. (In a moment of delicious irony, it looked just like Posada's bloop hit that had knocked in the tying run in the eighth inning against Pedro in last year's ALCS Game 7.) Johnny raced around from second to score the winning run. Big Papi had come through again - for the second time in the same day! The game was five hours and 49 minutes long, the longest postseason game time in history, and it was an instant classic. Best yet, it let the Sox live for another day. The post-game show went until midnight, and naturally I had to watch SportsCenter afterward to catch the highlights one more time. (Hey, we can sleep in November!) It wasn't till I got up the next morning that I realized I had never eaten dinner that night. With all the tension and drama it had never crossed my mind. I don't usually eat breakfast, but I was hungry in the morning, so I grabbed a bagel - a big, poppy-seed bagel - in honor of Big Papi, of course. <<< Previous Game Next Game >>> |


--- [Retro Recap, 2004 ALCS Game 5: Another Papi Walkoff, and the Best Game ...] ---
Retro Recap, 2004 ALCS Game 5: Another Papi Walkoff, and the Best Game of Varitek’s Life Because we remember this game first and foremost as another amazing comeback — and it was — it’s easy to forget that the Red Sox took an early lead. Four of the first five batters reached against Mike Mussina. David Ortiz drove in Orlando Cabrera with a single, and Jason Varitek walked with the bases loaded for a 2-0 lead. Mussina escaped further damage by whiffing Bill Mueller with the bases loaded for the third out, and the Yankees got one back in the top of the second against Pedro Martinez when Bernie Williams hit a solo home run. The score remained the same until the top of the sixth, when Derek Jeter roped a two-out, bases-loaded double to right field, scoring three and putting the Yankees up 4-2. The joy of the previous night — the first moments of this same morning, actually — felt fleeting. But Ortiz got a run back in the eighth with a solo home run off Tom Gordon, and Varitek’s sacrifice fly off Mariano Rivera tied it. The teams traded brilliant pitching and blown opportunities until the bottom of the 13th, when Ortiz drove in Johnny Damon and joy engulfed Fenway: WHAT YOU REMEMBERED, WHAT YOU DIDN’T REMEMBER, WHAT YOU DIDN’T WANT TO REMEMBER … WELL, HELL WITH THAT, BECAUSE YOU WANT REMEMBER ALL OF IT We got into all of the Who’s-your-daddy stuff after Game 2, but it is jarring to be reminded of how much Pedro struggled against the Yankees later in his Red Sox career. In five starts in 2004, he was 1-3 with a 5.29 ERA … Started this one well, though — he whiffed Jeter on three pitches, including a 90 mph fastball for a swinging strike three. He also struck out Gary Sheffield in the first … Fox’s camera’s catch a few fans in the early innings wearing “Why Not Us?” t-shirts. First time we’ve seen them on someone other than Curt Schilling and his teammates … Damon entered the game 1 for 18 in the series. He ended it 2 for 24. Man, he was lined up to be one of the more prominent goats. For some reason, no one seems to remember that now, eh? Yeah, for some reason … Manny Ramirez gets some lingering grief for not having an RBI in this entire series, but by no means did he have a bad series. Because of Damon’s struggles, he just didn’t have many baserunners on when he came to the plate. Still, he was a subtle but crucial contributor in Game 4, and in Game 5 he had a first-inning single in the middle of the two-run rally against Mussina, and in the 14th, he walked before Ortiz’s walk-off … Switch-hitter Varitek batted righthanded against the righty Mussina. In a related note, he entered the game as an .083 hitter lifetime against the Yankees starter … For a guy who had 114 career saves — including 46 with the ’98 Red Sox — Tom Gordon looked rattled in the eighth inning even before he gave up Ortiz’s solo homer to cut it to 4-3. Torre did not want to go to Rivera for two full innings in this game, but in hindsight, he should have recognized after Gordon walked Kevin Millar following Ortiz’s blast that he needed to go with the pitcher who was capable taking the mound without needing to hyperventilate into a paper bag. Rivera came in a batter later, after Trot Nixon hit a rocket to center with pinch-runner Dave Roberts on the move, which put runners at the corners. The first batter Rivera faced, Varitek, hit a sacrifice fly to get the tying run home … I’ve watched it five times in the last few minutes, and I still have no idea how Tony Clark’s ground-rule double with a runner on in the top of the ninth off Keith Foulke did not stay in play. To that point, it might have been the most fortuitous bounce the Red Sox have ever received … Foulke was brilliant. So was losing pitcher Estaban Loiaza for the Yankees. But does anyone remember that Bronson Arroyo came on for the 10th and got Jeter, Alex Rodriguez and Gary Sheffield in order, whiffing the last two batters? … At the 3 hour 15 minute mark of this clip, Tim Wakefield, Derek Lowe, and Schilling stroll to the bullpen, just in case they’re called to duty. It’s one of the unsung chill-inducing scenes of the series … Ortiz has to be the only player in history to deliver consecutive walk-off hits on the same day. I tell you, you relive the ’04 stuff, and look at the career numbers, and remember what he did in the postseason just last year, and you realize it’s going to be very difficult to keep him out of Cooperstown. DAMMIT, JETER Jorge Posada, who was such an arch-enemy of Pedro that he allegedly went to Yankees management and asked them not to sign him as a free agent before the 2005 season, leads off with a one-hopper that bounces in front of the plate and bounds over Pedro’s head for a cheapo infield single. It was impossible not to think at this moment of his game-tying flare to center in the cataclysmic eighth inning of Game 7 the previous October, and it brought back that old familiar sense of dread. As it turned out, this baseball horror proved the inverse of what happened in that fateful inning in ’03. Then, it was Jeter starting it with a one-out, Nixon-rain-dance-aided double, and Posada finishing it. This time, Posada started it, and Jeter stuck in what sure felt like a dagger in the sixth inning. After Ruben Sierra doubled and, one batter later, feeble Miguel Cairo got hit with a pitch (a sure sign Pedro was losing it), Jeter poked the Sox starter’s 100th pitch down the right field line. Posada scored. Sierra scored. Cairo scored, beating Nixon’s zeppelin of a throw. Jeter stood on third base, clapping, chomping his gum, and so casually blowing bubbles. Any shot at an unprecedented comeback felt lost. Gone. It was familiar, and it was awful. It seemed agonizingly inevitable. Jeter would win again. Pedro would end his Red Sox career without pitching in a World Series. The Yankees would win in five for sure. Who knew then that the ballgame had three hours and 7 1/2 innings left to go. THIS MIGHT HAVE BEEN THE GREATEST GAME OF JASON VARITEK’S CAREER In part because of the Red Sox’ success during his tenure, and in part because he was damn good, Varitek built as many lasting memories as any catcher in franchise history, Carlton Fisk included. Varitek had one three-homer game in his career, and 10 two-homer games. He caught four no-hitters, and he introduced Alex Rodriguez to the delicious mitt-burger. But I’m serious when I say that he may not have had a better — or certainly more important — performance than the one he submitted in Game 5 of the 2004 ALCS. In the first inning — again, batting righty against the righty Mussina — he worked a walk to plate the second Red Sox run, the first time in the series that the Red Sox scored first. I don’t know if he ever had a better at-bat than his turn against The Great Mariano in the eighth, especially considering the circumstances, pressure, and need for a specific difficult situational outcome. With one out and runners at the corners, Rivera entered the game to face Varitek with a one-run lead. Against Rivera and that buzzsaw cutter, you expected the worst almost as much as you feared it: a double play. Varitek grounded into 11 double plays during the 2004 regular season. He had one sacrifice fly. The odds were not in his favor of getting a second here. But there he was, flipping a Rivera cutter deep enough to center field to score Roberts without a throw. (Thank you, noodle-armed Bernie Williams.) Now, perhaps the unfamiliar and uninformed might look at the box score from this game, notice that Varitek had three passed balls in a single inning, and wonder how we could praise his performance so definitively. But you know why, don’t you? He was catching knuckleballer Wakefield — a very rare assignment for him even though they were teammates for 15 seasons — and Wake had the knuckleball dancing like a disco queen on this night. I’m not sure there has been a tenser half-inning in Red Sox history than the top of the 13th in this game. That’s when Varitek permitted — or more accurately, was the hapless victim — of three passed balls. So when the third passed ball — it simply ricocheted off his glove — allowed Yankees baserunners Hideki Matsui and Posada to move up to third and second base respectively with two outs, you couldn’t help but fear the inevitable fourth, which would have given the Yankees the lead. After Wakefield started out Ruben Sierra with two strikes, Varitek stabbed at his next pitch, a ball that fluttered into the lefty batter’s box — it appeared for a brief moment as if the catcher had to check the glove to make sure it was there. After a Sierra foul ball, Varitek again boxed the next pitch to the ground. And the next, ball three, also popped out of the mitt, but didn’t stray from his side. At this point, Varitek had to be considering an innovative approach — ditching the glove altogether and letting the ball hit him in the chest protector, then picking up the ball, which would hopefully come to a stop somewhere in front of him. You think I’m being facetious, yeah? Watch from the 4-hour, 24-minute mark forward, then get back to me: On the seventh pitch of the at-bat, Sierra swung and missed by a foot. Varitek, who missed a couple of baseballs by a foot himself that inning, caught it as cleanly as he would have a Curt Schilling fastball. And all of New England exhaled at once. NEW ENGLAND STATE OF MIND, POSTGAME Is this … is this what hope feels like? Hell, yes. This comeback no longer felt like a dream based on reality, but reality based on a dream. We’ll see you in New York for Game 6 …


--- [Red Sox 5-4 Yankees (Oct 18, 2004) Game Recap - ESPN] ---
New York Yankees @ Boston Red Sox NYY lead 3-2 Game Information Fenway Park 5:10 PM, October 18, 2004 Boston, Massachusetts Attendance: 35,120 Game Time:5:49 - Umpires: - Home Plate Umpire - Jeff Kellogg - First Base Umpire - Joe West - Second Base Umpire - Randy Marsh - Third Base Umpire - Jeff Nelson
