=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Hessian Cup - Wikipedia]
In 2008–09, the best 15 teams of the regional cups in Hesse qualified for the first round of the Hesse Cup. All clubs from Hesse playing in the Regionalliga and below take part in these competitions. Additionally, Kickers Offenbach and SV Wehen Wiesbaden are the two clubs from Hesse in the 3. Liga, so they qualify directly for the Hesse Cup.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hessian_Cup

[Eintracht Frankfurt]
In 1946, Eintracht won the first Hessenpokal, and finished third in the Oberliga Süd a year later.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eintracht_Frankfurt

[[OC] Is Eintracht Frankfurt a big German club? A little history-lesson ...]
They won the Hessenpokal in 1946. ... In 1959, Frankfurt became German champions for the first and to date only time in the club's history.
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/soccer/comments/kpjkfy/oc_is_eintracht_frankfurt_a_big_german_club_a/

[OFC gewinnt den Hessenpokal und steht in der ersten DFB ...]
May 21, 2022 · OFC gewinnt den Hessenpokal und steht in der ersten DFB-Pokalhauptrunde Am heutigen Samstag gewannen die Offenbacher Kickers den Hessenpokal gegen den TSV Steinbach Haiger.
URL: https://ofc.de/news/ofc-gewinnt-den-hessenpokal-und-steht-in-der-ersten-dfb-pokalhauptrunde/

[Eintracht Frankfurt]
They won their first Hessenpokal in 1946 and their first league title in 1953. They won their second Oberliga in 1959, qualifying them in their second German ...
URL: https://groundhopperguides.com/club/eintracht-frankfurt/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Hessian Cup - Wikipedia] ---
The Hesse Cup (German: Hessenpokal) is one of the 21 regional cup competitions of German football. The winner of the competition gains entry to the first round of the German Cup.




--- [Eintracht Frankfurt] ---
Eintracht Frankfurt e.V. (German pronunciation: [ˈaɪntʁaxt ˈfʁaŋkfʊʁt] ) is a German professional sports club based in Frankfurt, Hesse. It is best known for its football club, which was founded on 8 March 1899. The club currently plays in the Bundesliga, the top tier of the German football league system. Eintracht have won the German championship once, the DFB-Pokal five times, the UEFA Europa League twice and finished as runner-up in the European Cup once. The team was one of the founding members of the Bundesliga at its inception and has spent a total of 56 seasons in the top division, thus making them the seventh longest participating club in the highest tier of the league.
The club has 155,000 members, and thus is the fourth largest club playing in German football.
Since 1925 their stadium has been the Waldstadion, which is currently named Deutsche Bank Park for sponsorship reasons.
Eintracht Frankfurt have either won or drawn more than three-quarters of their games as well as having finished the majority of their seasons placed in the top half of the table, but also having the highest number of losses in the league (657). With an average attendance of 47,942 since 2013 the team also has one of the highest attendance ratings in the world and the eighth highest out of the 36 Bundesliga and 2. Bundesliga teams. The player with the highest number of appearances (602) in the Bundesliga, Charly Körbel, spent his entire senior career as a defender for Eintracht Frankfurt. The club's primary rival is local club Kickers Offenbach, although, due to spending most of their history in different divisions, the two have only played two league matches within the last 40 years.
With almost 14,000 active athletes in over 50 sports in 2024, Eintracht Frankfurt is the largest multi-sports club in the world with a professional football team.




--- [[OC] Is Eintracht Frankfurt a big German club? A little history-lesson ...] ---
You've been blocked by network security. To continue, log in to your Reddit account or use your developer token If you think you've been blocked by mistake, file a ticket below and we'll look into it. Log in File a ticket


--- [OFC gewinnt den Hessenpokal und steht in der ersten DFB ...] ---
OFC gewinnt den Hessenpokal und steht in der ersten DFB-Pokalhauptrunde Am heutigen Samstag gewannen die Offenbacher Kickers den Hessenpokal gegen den TSV Steinbach Haiger. Im Finale siegte der OFC im Gießener Waldstadion vor 3.780 Zuschauern mit 1:0. Der OFC begann von Beginn an überlegen und erarbeitete sich viele Torchancen. Gleich in der dritten Minute schoss Serkan Firat mit einem Fallrückzieher nur knapp übers Tor. Nach einem Foul im Sprintduell an Denis Huseinbasic gab es Freistoß aus rund 25 Metern für den OFC. Firat führte den Freistoß aus und seinen Schuss konnte der gegnerische Schlussmann Markus Scholz gerade so zur Seite abwehren (33.). Zwei Minuten später zog Dejan Bozic von der Strafraumkante ab, aber sein Schuss ging knapp über das Tor. In der 38. Spielminute traf Sasa Strujic nach einer Flanke von Ronny Marcos und unter Druck von Firat ins eigene Tor zum 1:0 für den OFC. Nach dem Seitenwechsel agierten die Kickers etwas defensiver und die Steinbacher erarbeiteten sich Chancen. Vier Minuten nach dem Wiederanpfiff köpfte Dennis Chessa aus kurzer Distanz gefährlich aufs Offenbacher Tor, aber David Richter tauchte ab und hielt den Ball sicher. In der 71. Minute kam David Nieland im Strafraum gefährlich an den Ball und versuchte es mit einem Lupfer – der ging allerding links am Tor vorbei. Am Ende reichte es für die Mittelhessen nicht mehr, um auszugleichen und so gewannen die Kickers dieses Pokalfinale verdient mit 1:0. Damit wurde der Titel „Hessenpokalsieger“ zum zwölften Mal nach Offenbach geholt und die Teilnahme an der ersten Runde des DFB-Pokals in der nächsten Saison gesichert. Mannschaftsaufstellung Kickers Offenbach: • Richter, Zieleniecki, Firat, Hosiner (64. Hermes), Tuma (88. Ramaj), Huseinbasic, Okungbowa, Breitenbach, Milde, Marcos, Bozic (83. Andacic) Tore: • 1:0 Strujic (38., ET) Zuschauer: • 3.780


--- [Eintracht Frankfurt] ---
Eintracht Frankfurt Club Profile Eintracht Frankfurt One of the oldest and biggest clubs in Germany, Eintracht have actually won just one league title, a handful of cups, and the Europa League. But they offer a great atmosphere in a lovely stadium in one of Europe’s biggest and most bustling cities. LOCATION: Frankfurt, Hesse, Germany CONTACT: en.eintracht.de, +49 (0)800 – 743-1899 NICKNAMES: Die Adler (The Eagles) (Above image by DJNevage, CC BY-SA 4.0, via Wikimedia Commons) Eintracht Frankfurt History Eintracht Frankfurt can trace its history all the way back to 1899, when the two predecessor clubs were formed. These two clubs joined in 1911, and this new team, Frankfurter Fußball Verein, was an instant success, winning 3 league titles in a row. In 1920, Frankfurter FV joined with gymnastics club Frankfurter Turngemeinde von 1861 to form TuS… Eintracht Frankfurt can trace its history all the way back to 1899, when the two predecessor clubs were formed. These two clubs joined in 1911, and this new team, Frankfurter Fußball Verein, was an instant success, winning 3 league titles in a row. In 1920, Frankfurter FV joined with gymnastics club Frankfurter Turngemeinde von 1861 to form TuS Eintracht Frankfurt von 1861. Eintracht means harmony or concord in German so it is essentially the English equivalent of United. The club had some small regional success in the 1920s and 30s, and after WWII it joined the newly formed first division, the Oberliga Süd. They won their first Hessenpokal in 1946 and their first league title in 1953. They won their second Oberliga in 1959, qualifying them in their second German championship, which they went on to win on penalties. This victory qualified them for the European Cup, where they made a name for themselves in by defeating Rangers 12-4 on aggregate before falling to Real Madrid in the final. When the Bundesliga was formed in 1963, Frankfurt had established themselves as a quality side and were admitted as a founding club. In their first season, they finished 3rd in the league, which has been their best finish to date. They remained in the Bundesliga for another 32 years, during which time they finished in the top half of the league. But their real success was in cup competitions. From 1973 to 1981, they won 3 DFB-Pokals and the UEFA Cup (now known as the Europa League). However, following this success the club had some very near misses with relegation battles, with a brief break to win the DFB-Pokal in 1988. They seemed to be back on the right track in the early 90s, before being relegated for the first time in 1996. They stayed down for just two seasons, making it back up in 1998 but barely avoiding relegation the very next year. The early 2000s saw Frankfurt become somewhat of a yo-yo club, bouncing between the 1st and 2nd division. They came back up in 2005 and were in the Bundesliga until 2011 when they were relegated again. They came straight back up and have remained in the Bundesliga ever since. Frankfurt won another DFB-Pokal in 2018 against heavy favorites Bayern Munich, to avenge their loss in the final the previous year. They also reached the 2019 Europa League Semifinal, before losing to Chelsea on penalties. They had another historic European run in 2022, when they won the Europa League Final after beating Barcelona, West Ham, and eventually Rangers in the final in Seville. 2023-24 SEASON: 6th in Bundesliga (Qualified for Europa League), DFB-Pokal Round of 16 2024-25 SEASON: Bundesliga, UEFA Europa League Eintracht Frankfurt Rivalries The club shares a number of rivalries including ones with Kickers Offenbach, Darmstadt 98, 1. FSV Mainz 05, and 1. FC Kaiserslautern. Currently Mainz is the only club who are also in the Bundesliga, which has allowed this rivalry to continue for the last several The club shares a number of rivalries including ones with Kickers Offenbach, Darmstadt 98, 1. FSV Mainz 05, and 1. FC Kaiserslautern. Currently Mainz is the only club who are also in the Bundesliga, which has allowed this rivalry to continue for the last several seasons. Eintracht Frankfurt Women's Team Frankfurt’s women’s team was originally founded as SG Praunheim in 1973. The club did not have many major successes early on, but did qualify for the Bundesliga when it was founded in 1990. The club hit their stride in the early 2000s when they won 7 league titles from 1999 to 2008. They also won 9 DFB-Pokal titles from 1999 to 2014. Along with… Frankfurt’s women’s team was originally founded as SG Praunheim in 1973. The club did not have many major successes early on, but did qualify for the Bundesliga when it was founded in 1990. The club hit their stride in the early 2000s when they won 7 league titles from 1999 to 2008. They also won 9 DFB-Pokal titles from 1999 to 2014. Along with their domestic success, they have also won 4 UEFA Champions League titles. Eintracht Frankfurt Songs Stay tuned! Stay tuned! Eintracht Frankfurt Stadium Frankfurt moved into the Riederwaldstadion in 1920 and have remained there ever since. The ground has undergone multiple renovations for the 2006 World Cup, and for Bundesliga action. The capacity is 58,000 making it one of the largest stadiums in Germany and although it is officially known as Deutsche Bank Park, many supporters still refer to it… Frankfurt moved into the Riederwaldstadion in 1920 and have remained there ever since. The ground has undergone multiple renovations for the 2006 World Cup, and for Bundesliga action. The capacity is 58,000 making it one of the largest stadiums in Germany and although it is officially known as Deutsche Bank Park, many supporters still refer to it as the Riederwaldstadion. Going to a Game at Eintracht Frankfurt GETTING THERE: It’s about three miles south of the city center, so it’s probably best to take tram 20 or 21 from the main train station (Hauptbahnhof). PUBS and GRUB: There’s nothing out by the stadium. The Kleinmarkthalle is particularly recommended as a place to eat. AROUND TOWN: Known mainly as a business and financial… GETTING THERE: It’s about three miles south of the city center, so it’s probably best to take tram 20 or 21 from the main train station (Hauptbahnhof). PUBS and GRUB: There’s nothing out by the stadium. The Kleinmarkthalle is particularly recommended as a place to eat. AROUND TOWN: Known mainly as a business and financial center, Frankfurt doesn’t get a lot of tourist traffic. For a sense of its size and architecture, go up the Main Tower; for a taste of history, head for the old square, the Römerberg, or the Frankfurt Historical Museum for a model of the city in the 1920s — well before it was destroyed during World War II. Eintracht Frankfurt Tickets You must be a Eintracht Frankfurt member to purchase tickets. Memberships for adults are 76.00€ and you must also pay a 20.00€ one-time registration fee. Groundhopper Guides is also authorized to offer tickets at Eintracht Frankfurt home games. Fill out the form below for more information! Eintracht Frankfurt Photo Gallery Coming soon! Eintracht Frankfurt Videos Coming soon! More About Eintracht Frankfurt Stay tuned, and subscribe to our free weekly newsletter.
