=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Neptune and Triton by Gian Lorenzo Bernini - V&A]
Carved between 1622 and 1623, Neptune and Triton was commissioned from sculptor Gian Lorenzo Bernini by Alessandro Peretti, an Italian Roman Catholic Cardinal Bishop, for the garden of the Villa Montalto in Rome. It was originally the centrepiece of a complex system of fountains and cascades located at the upper end of a large oval fishpond. In the 17th and 18th centuries this impressive ...
URL: https://www.vam.ac.uk/articles/neptune-and-triton-by-gian-lorenzo-bernini

[Neptune and Triton - Wikipedia]
Neptune and Triton is an early sculpture by the Italian artist Gian Lorenzo Bernini. It is housed in the Victoria and Albert Museum of London and was executed c. 1622-1623. Carved from marble, it stands 182.2 cm (71.7 in) in height. [1][2]
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Neptune_and_Triton

[Neptune and Triton by BERNINI, Gian Lorenzo - Web Gallery of Art]
Neptune and Triton 1620 Marble, height 182,2 cm Victoria and Albert Museum, London The sculpture was commissioned by Cardinal Peretti Montalto for decorating the pond in the garden of his Villa Montalto on Mount Esquilinus in Rome. Later it was purchased by an Englishman from whom it went to the painter Sir Joshua Reynolds. The subject comes from Virgil's Aeneis. Neptune is calming the sea to ...
URL: https://www.wga.hu/html_m/b/bernini/gianlore/sculptur/1620/neptun1.html

[Neptune and Triton - arthistoryreference.com]
Neptune and Triton (c1623). Marble. 182. Neptune and Triton is an early sculpture by the Italian artist Gian Lorenzo Bernini. It is housed in the Victoria and Albert Museum of London and was executed c. 1622-1623. Carved from marble, it stands 182.2 cm in height. The marble sculpture group was originally commissioned by Cardinal Alessandro Damascenti-Peretti Montalto in 1620, and executed ...
URL: http://arthistoryreference.com/t145/13538.htm

[Neptune and Triton - Statue Decor]
Neptune and Triton is one of the first sculptures by the Italian artist Gian Lorenzo Bernini. Created between 1622 and 1623, it is on display at the Victoria and Albert Museum in London. Carved in marble, the work measures 182.2 cm in height. History of Neptune and Triton The marble sculpture was originally commissioned by Cardinal Alessandro Damascenti Peretti in 1620, and was executed ...
URL: https://statue-decor.com/blogs/statues/neptune-and-triton


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Neptune and Triton by Gian Lorenzo Bernini - V&A] ---
Bernini's sculpture, which received widespread critical acclaim, depicts the mythological ruler of the seas, Neptune, and his merman son, Triton, both at human life size. The group's dynamic composition may have been inspired by Ovid's account of the Flood in the epic poem Metamorphoses, in which Jupiter vowed in anger to destroy life on Earth, and called Neptune to create a flood; Neptune struck the Earth with his trident and released a deluge. When the destruction was complete, Neptune laid down his trident and called Triton to blow on his conch shell as a signal for the waters to subside. Neptune and Triton – the only one of the artist's large-scale works to be held outside Italy – is characteristic of the Baroque, a style of art that emerged in Rome in the 17th century, and which had by 1700 spread throughout Italy and most of western Europe. Bernini is often credited as one of the founders of this extravagant new aesthetic. In sculptural terms Baroque is characterised by a focus on dynamic figurative groups that are designed to be viewed in the round and in open space. It seems clear that Bernini designed Neptune and Triton with long-range, open viewpoints in mind. For his father-and-son figures he created a bold overall design that could be appreciated at a distance, while also exploiting the bright Italian sunshine of the sculpture garden's location – creating dramatic contrasts of dark and light, with deep and vigorously carved detail. Neptune and Triton was carved in just under a year, at a time when Bernini was about 25 years old. In terms of production, the group falls between two equally impressive two-figure sculptures, The Rape of Persephone and Apollo and Daphne (both housed in the Galleria Borghese in Rome), and helps mark the artist's arrival at full maturity as a sculptor. After the death of Alessandro Peretti in 1623, Bernini's career continued to develop under the patronage of another influential friend, Cardinal Maffeo Barberini, who became Pope Urban VIII in the same year. A prominent patron of the arts, the new Pope encouraged Bernini to study painting and architecture, and appointed him in charge of additions to St. Peter's Basilica in Rome. Bernini created a series of powerful pieces for the church, including a monumental canopy cast in bronze, and a window-based piece housing a relic of St. Peter's throne. These important commissions helped cement the reputation of Bernini as the foremost sculptor of his day. Neptune and Triton remained at the Villa Montalto until 1786 when it was sold to the British art dealer Thomas Jenkins. The group was later purchased by the painter Sir Joshua Reynolds, and subsequently had two more homes – in Chelsea in London, then in Lincolnshire – before being acquired by the V&A in 1950 with the assistance of the National Art Fund.


--- [Neptune and Triton - Wikipedia] ---
Neptune and Triton is an early sculpture by the Italian artist Gian Lorenzo Bernini. It is housed in the Victoria and Albert Museum of London and was executed c. 1622–1623. Carved from marble, it stands 182.2 cm (71.7 in) in height.


--- [Neptune and Triton by BERNINI, Gian Lorenzo - Web Gallery of Art] ---
| The sculpture was commissioned by Cardinal Peretti Montalto for decorating the pond in the garden of his Villa Montalto on Mount Esquilinus in Rome. Later it was purchased by an Englishman from whom it went to the painter Sir Joshua Reynolds. The subject comes from Virgil's Aeneis. Neptune is calming the sea to ensure the safe passage for Aeneas. Triton, Neptune's son gives a signal with his shell-horn. The triangular composition foresees the composition of David. |


--- [Neptune and Triton - arthistoryreference.com] ---
Neptune and Triton (c1623). Marble. 182. Neptune and Triton is an early sculpture by the Italian artist Gian Lorenzo Bernini. It is housed in the Victoria and Albert Museum of London and was executed c. 1622-1623. Carved from marble, it stands 182.2 cm in height. The marble sculpture group was originally commissioned by Cardinal Alessandro Damascenti-Peretti Montalto in 1620, and executed March 1622 to February 1623, serving as a fountain to decorate the pond in the garden of his Villa Peretti Montalto on the Viminal Hill in Rome. The group was placed in the pre-existing oval pool, designed by Domenico Fontana in 1579-81. It was purchased by the Englishman Thomas Jenkins in 1786, from whom it was purchased later that year by the painter Joshua Reynolds. The work had been called Neptune and Glaucus following Filippo Baldinucci's biography of the artist, but appears as Nettvno, e Tritone in Domenico de' Rossi's engraving, and also later corrected to Neptune and Triton following Reynolds' notes. After Reynolds's death in 1792 it was sold to Charles Anderson-Pelham, 1st Baron Yarborough, who kept it in the garden of his home in Chelsea, London, Walpole House. His descendants moved it in 1906 to their country house, Brocklesby Park, Lincolnshire. It was bought from the family by the Victoria and Albert Museum in 1950, although it had appeared at an exhibition at the Royal Academy in London in 1938. The scene is thought to be making loose allusions to Neptune and Triton aiding Trojan ships as described, by Virgil, or Ovid or both, together with additional material. In Ovid's Metamorphoses, Neptune bids Triton to blow his shell to calm the waves, In Virgil's Aeneid, Neptune calms the waves and afterwards, the nereid Cymothoe and Triton dislodge Aeneas's ships, helped in the effort by Neptune using the trident. But neither passages precisely match and the artist must have patched together a version using other sources. The composition of Bernini's Neptune and Triton consists of Neptune standing astride over Triton; Triton lies in sort of a crouching position; the two figures mounted on a large half-shell, which serves as socle. Neptune aims his trident sea-wards, while Triton is blowing his conch. The conch was designed to spurt out gushing water, in order that the sculpture could serve as a fountain. The posture of Neptune's stance, the filling-in of the reverse-V-shaped negative space by another figure, were radical departures from for Bernini, as it was his first work in which the silhouette is broken, and his achievement of full Baroque freedom, in the words of Rudolf Wittkower. However, Wittkower also qualified that Bernini was yet to attain the dynamism in his subsequent works. The Neptune and Triton is Bernini's Neptune is represented as a mature bearded, muscular figure of male authority, twisting his torso as he is about to thrust his trident in downward motion towards water. Neptune sports a cloak, but is otherwise naked. His touseled hair and beard, suggests the storminess in this scene. Wittkower who subscribed to the view this was a reenactment of Virgil, was satisfied that this gesture was Neptune, with an angry look towards the water, calming the waves with his trident. John Pope-Hennessy pointed out the defect that Bernini did not include the nereid if he was reenacting Virgil's passage, and suggested a quote from Ovid as basis; it was then counter-argued that this Ovid passage too was defective in failing to mention the trident explicitly. Collier pointed out it was peculiar that Neptune should wear a wrathful expression calming the sea, and suggested a different passage from Ovid where Neptune was in wrath, but this too was flawed as it did not mention Trident. Collier also remarked that if Virgil was the source, Neptune might not have been waving the trident at the sea, but rather using the instrument to dislodge the ships from the rocks, as stated in the poem. But since Bernini's work failed to hint at any presence of ships, this proposition seemed untenable to him. As a side-note, it has also been noticed that ends of Neptune's drapery are made to look like a dolphin's head. It has been suggested this pays homage to the classical writing by Ovid, at a different passage that mentions the Neptune and dolphins, as well as to the general Ovidian theme of transformations in the Metamorphosis and other works. Barrow on the other hand perceived light-heartedness in the artistic touch here, which was evocative of the spirit of Hellenistic Rococo. Triton, Neptune's son, is positioned below Neptune's legs, thrusting himself forward to blow the conch shell. He is noticeably younger, maybe a teenage boy, though also with defined musculature.


--- [Neptune and Triton - Statue Decor] ---
No content
