=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Soft Construction with Boiled Beans, 1936 by Salvador Dali]
Dali described this convulsively arresting picture as "a vast human body breaking out into monstrous excrescences of arms and legs tearing at one another in a delirium of autostrangulation."
URL: https://www.dalipaintings.com/soft-construction-with-boiled-beans.jsp

[Salvador Dalí - Wikipedia]
Dalí later described it as, "a vast human body breaking out into monstrous excrescences of arms and legs tearing at one another in a delirium of auto-strangulation". [81]
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Salvador_Dal%C3%AD

[Salvador Dalí - Soft Construction with Boiled Beans [1936]]
Salvador Dalí - Soft Construction with Boiled Beans [1936] Gruesome, bizarre, and excruciatingly meticulous in technique, Salvador Dalí’s paintings rank among the most compelling portrayals of the unconscious mind.
URL: https://www.flickr.com/photos/gandalfsgallery/44779322615

[Salvador Dalí Flashcards | Quizlet]
Dalí often drew a close analogy between food and sex. In Lobster Telephone, the crustacean's tail, where its sexual parts are located, is placed directly over the mouthpiece.
URL: https://quizlet.com/651237839/salvador-dali-flash-cards/

[artnet.com Magazine Reviews - Dalí Rules]
The array of Surrealist masterpieces on view includes the excruciating Soft Construction with Boiled Beans (Premonition of Civil War) (1936), described by Dali as "a vast human body breaking out into monstrous excrescences of arms and legs tearing at one another in a delirium of autostrangulation."
URL: https://www.artnet.com/magazine/reviews/kley/kley2-18-05.asp


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Soft Construction with Boiled Beans, 1936 by Salvador Dali] ---
Soft Construction with Boiled Beans, 1936 by Salvador Dali Dali made Soft Construction with Boiled Beans to represent the horrors of the Spanish Civil War. Dali painted this 6 months before the Spanish Civil War had even begun and then claimed that he had known the war was going to happen in order to appear to have prophet-like abilities due to "the prophetic power of his subconscious mind." Dali may have changed the name of the painting after the war in a manner of proving this prophetic quality, though it is not entirely certain. The painting is now located in the Philadelphia Museum of Art. Dali painted it in 1936, but there were studies found of it that dated back to 1934. It is a picture of a geometric monster type creature and connected to a similar monster. The two creatures appear to be two parts of the same creature so that it appears to be wrestling itself. All over the background and on parts of the monster are boiled beans that look like they are melting. The monster stands on trees and a brown wooden box. The background is a blue sky with clouds, that are darker in some parts and lighter in others. Dali and his wife, Gala, were trapped in the middle of a general strike and an armed uprising by Catalan separatists in 1934, in Catalonia, and this may have influenced his Spanish Civil War motif. Dali and Gala had to run away to Paris, where they actually got married. Dali and Gala had hired an escort to take them safely to Paris, but the escort died on his return because of the stresses of the Spanish Civil War. When Dali had finally returned home, his house in Port Lligat was destroyed by the war. He was also greatly affected because his friend was executed in the war and his sister Ana Maria was imprisoned and tortured. Gruesome, bizarre, and excruciatingly meticulous in technique, Salvador Dali's paintings rank among the most compelling portrayals of the unconscious mind. Dali described this convulsively arresting picture as "a vast human body breaking out into monstrous excrescences of arms and legs tearing at one another in a delirium of autostrangulation." The desecration of the human body was a great preoccupation of the Surrealists in general, and of Dali in particular. Here, the figure's ecstatic grimace, taut neck muscles, and petrifying fingers and toes create a vision of disgusting fascination.


--- [Salvador Dalí - Wikipedia] ---
Salvador Domingo Felipe Jacinto Dalí i Domènech, Marquess of Dalí de Púbol (11 May 1904 – 23 January 1989), known as Salvador Dalí, was a Spanish surrealist artist renowned for his technical skill, precise draftsmanship, and the striking and bizarre images in his work. 
Born in Figueres in Catalonia, Dalí received his formal education in fine arts in Madrid. Influenced by Impressionism and the Renaissance masters from a young age, he became increasingly attracted to Cubism and avant-garde movements. He moved closer to Surrealism in the late 1920s and joined the Surrealist group in 1929, soon becoming one of its leading exponents. His best-known work, The Persistence of Memory, was completed in August 1931. Dalí lived in France throughout the Spanish Civil War (1936 to 1939) before leaving for the United States in 1940 where he achieved commercial success. He returned to Spain in 1948 where he announced his return to the Catholic faith and developed his "nuclear mysticism" style, based on his interest in classicism, mysticism, and recent scientific developments.
Dalí's artistic repertoire included painting, sculpture, film, graphic arts, animation, fashion, and photography, at times in collaboration with other artists. He also wrote fiction, poetry, autobiography, essays, and criticism. Major themes in his work include dreams, the subconscious, sexuality, religion, science and his closest personal relationships. To the dismay of those who held his work in high regard, and to the irritation of his critics, his eccentric and ostentatious public behavior often drew more attention than his artwork. His public support for the Francoist regime, his commercial activities and the quality and authenticity of some of his late works have also been controversial. His life and work were an important influence on other Surrealists, pop art, popular culture, and contemporary artists such as Jeff Koons and Damien Hirst.
There are two major museums devoted to Salvador Dalí's work: the Dalí Theatre-Museum in Figueres, Spain, and the Salvador Dalí Museum in St. Petersburg, Florida, U.S.


--- [Salvador Dalí - Soft Construction with Boiled Beans [1936]] ---
Salvador Dalí - Soft Construction with Boiled Beans [1936] Gruesome, bizarre, and excruciatingly meticulous in technique, Salvador Dalí’s paintings rank among the most compelling portrayals of the unconscious mind. In this work, the artist turned his attention to the impending Spanish Civil War, which began in July 1936 and would turn his native country into a bloody battleground. Dalí described this convulsively arresting picture as “a vast human body breaking out into monstrous excrescences of arms and legs tearing at one another in a delirium of autostrangulation.” The desecration of the human body was a great preoccupation of the Surrealists in general, and of Dalí in particular. Here, the figure’s ecstatic grimace, taut neck muscles, and petrifying fingers and toes create a vision of disgusting fascination. [Philadelphia Museum of Art - Oil on canvas, 99.9 x 100 cm] Salvador Dalí - Soft Construction with Boiled Beans [1936] Gruesome, bizarre, and excruciatingly meticulous in technique, Salvador Dalí’s paintings rank among the most compelling portrayals of the unconscious mind. In this work, the artist turned his attention to the impending Spanish Civil War, which began in July 1936 and would turn his native country into a bloody battleground. Dalí described this convulsively arresting picture as “a vast human body breaking out into monstrous excrescences of arms and legs tearing at one another in a delirium of autostrangulation.” The desecration of the human body was a great preoccupation of the Surrealists in general, and of Dalí in particular. Here, the figure’s ecstatic grimace, taut neck muscles, and petrifying fingers and toes create a vision of disgusting fascination. [Philadelphia Museum of Art - Oil on canvas, 99.9 x 100 cm]


--- [Salvador Dalí Flashcards | Quizlet] ---
No content


--- [artnet.com Magazine Reviews - Dalí Rules] ---
Starting in 1996, Alexa Internet has been donating their crawl data to the Internet Archive. Flowing in every day, these data are added to the Wayback Machine after an embargo period. Starting in 1996, Alexa Internet has been donating their crawl data to the Internet Archive. Flowing in every day, these data are added to the Wayback Machine after an embargo period. TIMESTAMPS The Wayback Machine - http://web.archive.org/web/20200205162558/http://www.artnet.com:80/Magazine/reviews/kley/kley2-18-05.asp Heaven has arrived for Salvador Dalí fans. A huge retrospective of the artist's work has opened at the Philadelphia Museum of Art, Feb. 16-May 13, 2005, in honor of the Dalí centenary. The city is blanketed with Dalí posters. Dalí flags line Benjamin Franklin Parkway, the majestic avenue that leads right up to the Philadelphia Museum's monumental staircase. The museum gift shop is packed with Dalí pillows, bags, hats and t-shirts, either in the shape of a pair of red lips or marked with a red-lip logo. Dalí would have loved it. The exhibition begins with an astonishing 1938 self-portrait, titled Impressions of Africa. Dalí gesticulates from behind an easel on one side of a desert landscape, one bulging eagle-eye visible, the other hidden behind the canvas he paints. As a ghostly image of Gala's head floats above his, Dalí stretches out a warning hand, as if ordering the viewer to be still or beware. Early highlights include Unsatisfied Desires, a painting of two beckoning pink shapes so scandalous that its anatomical details were covered with pieces of cork when it was first exhibited in Barcelona in 1928. Dalí was well on his way to developing the lapidary Old Master style he nicknamed "hand-painted photography," which he employed to create breathtaking renditions of his fantasies, dreams and hallucinations, windows into bizarre rocky nightmares bathed in the eerie harsh light of Catalonia. No matter how many times these iconic Surrealist images have been seen in reproduction, their accumulated banality falls away when they are experienced in such quantity in the flesh. The array of Surrealist masterpieces on view includes the excruciating Soft Construction with Boiled Beans (Premonition of Civil War) (1936), described by Dali as "a vast human body breaking out into monstrous excrescences of arms and legs tearing at one another in a delirium of autostrangulation." The show includes as well such arcane perversities as Delicate Sweets for Children (1931). In this drawing, carefully rendered in pencil and ink, a balding mustached gentleman is fellated by a very short girl. The work is dedicated to Paul Eluard, the former husband of Gala, who had left him for Dalí in 1930. By the late 1930s, the outspokenly apolitical Dalí had had enough of Europe's living nightmares, and he turned his attention to Hollywood. In the exhibition, his 1945 set design for Hitchcock's Spellbound hangs alongside a screen showing the famous dream sequence from the actual film. Elsewhere in the museum, Destino, Dali's incomplete Disney animation project, can be seen as it was finished in 2001 according to Dali's plans. In Dali's painting, his obsession with the tangled minutiae of inner paranoia gave way to a more universal interest in atomic science. Society portraits replaced the fearsome light of Catalonia, with its flattering blue skies and wrinkle-erasing sunlight. Dismembered bodies and scatological references disappeared. Enormous paintings of religious subjects took over in the 1950s, including a large foreshortened image of Christ Ascending, dominated by His giant feet, as Gala the Virgin looks on from above. The exhibition's final gallery features his most futuristic experiment, a hologram that purports to depict Alice Cooper's brain, a work that was conceived in 1973, when Dalí was 69.
