=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Jamini Roy - Wikipedia]
Jamini Roy (11 April 1887 - 24 April 1972) was an Indian painter. He was honoured by the Government of India the award of Padma Bhushan in 1954. [1] He remains one of the most famous pupils of Abanindranath Tagore, another praised Indian artist and instructor. [2] Roy's highly simplified, flattened-out style, and reminiscent of European modern art was influenced by the "bazaar" paintings ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jamini_Roy

[Jamini Roy - Bharatpedia]
Jamini Roy (Bengali: যামিনী রায়) (11 April 1887 - 24 April 1972) was an Indian painter. He was honoured with the State award of Padma Bhushan in 1954. He was one of the most famous pupils of Abanindranath Tagore, whose artistic originality and contribution to the emergence of art in India remains unquestionable.
URL: https://en.bharatpedia.org/wiki/Jamini_Roy

[Jamini Roy | Biography, Art, Paintings, Style, & Facts - artcreativity]
Jamini Roy (Bengali: যামিনী রায়) (11 April 1887 - 24 April 1972) was an Indian painter. He was honoured by the Government of India the award of Padma Bhushan in 1954. He remains one of the most famous pupils of Abanindranath Tagore, another praised Indian artist and instructor. Roy's highly simplified, flattened-out style, and reminiscent of European modern art was ...
URL: https://artcreativity.in/artists/jamini-roy/

[Jamini Roy - Artist Biography, Paintings, Artworks, Auction Records]
The Government of India awarded the Padma Bhushan on Jamini Roy in 1955. The following year, he was chosen by Lalit Kala Akademi as a fellow and in 1961, he was given a special ceremony honoring his achievements as an artist.
URL: http://www.jamini-roy.com/

[Jamini Roy Biography - Paintings & Artworks, Life History & Achievements]
Father: Ramataran Roy Awards: Padma Bhushan (1954), Viceroy's gold medal (1934), Fellow of the Lalit Kala Akademi (1955) Walk into an average middle-class art-loving household of West Bengal, and chances are that you might come across a well-preserved portrait of Jamini Roy rather than a fancy looking artwork of one of India's many modern ...
URL: https://www.culturalindia.net/indian-art/painters/jamini-roy.html


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Jamini Roy - Wikipedia] ---
Jamini Roy (11 April 1887 – 24 April 1972) was an Indian painter. He was honoured by the Government of India the award of Padma Bhushan in 1954. He remains one of the most famous pupils of Abanindranath Tagore, another praised Indian artist and instructor. Roy's highly simplified, flattened-out style, and reminiscent of European modern art was influenced by the “bazaar” paintings sold at Indian temples as talismans.


--- [Jamini Roy - Bharatpedia] ---
Jamini Roy This article needs additional citations for verification. (August 2021) | Jamini Roy | | |---|---| | File:Jaminiroy.jpg | | | Born | | | Died | 24 April 1972 | (aged 85) | Nationality | Indian | | Known for | Painting | Notable work | painter | | Awards | Padma Bhushan (1955) | Jamini Roy (Bengali: যামিনী রায়) (11 April 1887 – 24 April 1972) was an Indian painter. He was honoured with the State award of Padma Bhushan in 1954. He was one of the most famous pupils of Abanindranath Tagore, whose artistic originality and contribution to the emergence of art in India remains unquestionable. Early life and background[edit] Jamini Roy was born on 11 April 1887 into a moderately prosperous Kayastha family of land-owners in Beliatore village of the Bankura district, West Bengal.[1] He was raised in an average middle-class, art loving household which ultimately influenced his future decisions.[2] When he was sixteen he was sent to study at the Government College of Art, Kolkata.[1] Abanindranath Tagore, the founder of Bengal school was vice-principal at the institution. He was taught to paint in the prevailing academic tradition drawing Classical nudes and painting in oils and in 1908 he received his Diploma in Fine Art. However, he soon realized that he needed to draw inspiration, not from Western traditions, but from his own culture, and so he looked to the living folk and tribal art for inspiration. He was most influenced by the Kalighat Pat (Kalighat painting), which was a style of art with bold sweeping brush-strokes. He moved away from his earlier impressionist landscapes and portraits and between 1921 and 1924 began his first period of experimentation with the Santhal dance as his starting point. Jamini Roy had 4 sons and 1 daughter. Style[edit] Roy began his career as a commissioned portrait painter. Somewhat abruptly in the early 1920s, he gave up commissioned portrait painting in an effort to discover his own.[3] Roy changed style from his academic Western training and featured a new style based on Bengali folk traditions.[4] Roy is also described as an art machine because he produced 20,000 paintings in his lifetime which is about 10 paintings daily but made sure his artistic aims remained the same. He always targeted to the ordinary middle class as the upholder of art however he was thronged by the rich. Keeping his respect to the middle class reflected on his critical views; he believed that ordinary people were more important than governments because they were the voice of his art.[5] His underlying quest was threefold: to capture the essence of simplicity embodied in the life of the folk people; to make art accessible to a wider section of people; and to give Indian art its own identity. Jamini Roy's paintings were put on exhibition for the first time in the British India Street of Calcutta (Kolkata) in 1938. During the 1940s, his popularity touched new highs, with the Bengali middle class and the European community becoming his main clientele. In 1946, his work was exhibited in London and in 1953, in New York. He was awarded the Padma Bhushan in 1954. His work has been exhibited extensively in international exhibitions and can be found in many private and public collections such as the Victoria and Albert Museum, London. He spent most of his life living and working in Calcutta. Initially he experimented with Kalighat paintings but found that it has ceased to be strictly a "patua" and went to learn from village patuas. Consequently, his techniques as well as subject matter was influenced by traditional art of Bengal. He preferred himself to be called a patua. Jamini Roy died in 1972. He was survived by four sons and a daughter. Currently his successors (daughters-in-law and grand children and their children) stay at the home he had built in Ballygunge Place, Kolkata. His works can be found in various museums and galleries across the globe. Awards[edit] In 1934, he received a Viceroy's gold medal in an all India exhibition for one of his work. In 1954 he was awarded the Padma Bhushan by the Government of India, the third highest award a civilian can be given.[6] In 1955, he was made the first Fellow of the Lalit Kala Akademi, the highest honour in the fine arts conferred by the Lalit Kala Akademi, India's National Academy of Art, Government of India.[7] In 1976, the Archaeological Survey of India, Ministry of Culture, Govt. of India declared his works among the "Nine Masters" whose work, to be henceforth considered "to be art treasures, having regard to their artistic and aesthetic value".[8] On 11 April 2017 Google India dedicated a Google Doodle to celebrate Roy on his 130th birthday.[4] Critical views[edit] In 1929 while inaugurating Roy's exhibition sponsored by Mukul Dey at Calcutta, the then Statesman Editor Sir Alfred Watson said: …Those who study the various pictures will be able to trace the development of the mind of an artist constantly seeking his own mode of expression. His earlier work done under purely Western influence and consisting largely of small copies of larger works must be regarded as the exercises of one learning to use the tools of his craft competently and never quite at ease with his models. From this phase we see him gradually breaking away to a style of his own. You must judge for yourselves how far Mr. Roy has been able to achieve the ends at which he is obviously aiming. His work will repay study. I see in it as I see in much of the painting in India today a real endeavour to recover a national art that shall be free from the sophisticated tradition of other countries, which have had a continuous art history. The work of those who are endeavouring to revive Indian art is commonly not appreciated in its true significance. It is sometimes assumed that revival means no more than a return to the methods and traditions of the past. That would be to create a school of copyists without visions and ideals of their own. … Art in any form cannot progress without encouragement. The artist must live and he must live by the sale of his work. In India as elsewhere the days when the churches and the princes were the patrons of art have passed. Encouragement today must come from a wider circle. I would say to those who have money to spare buy Indian art with courage. You may obtain some things of little worth; you may, on the other hand, acquire cheaply something that is destined to have great value. What does it matter whether you make mistakes or not. By encouraging those who are striving to give in line and colour a fresh expression to Indian thought you are helping forward a movement that we all hope is destined to add a fresh lustre to the country. Key works[edit] - "Ramayana", 1946, Spread across 17 canvases (106 × 76 cm, each) Roy's Ramayana is considered to be his magnum opus. Patronized by Sarada Charan Das, Roy created this masterpiece series in Kalighat pata style with natural colors, using earth, chalk powder and vegetable colors instead of dyes. Later Roy also created individual replicas capturing various moments from the entire series. Some of these paintings have been preserved in the National Art Gallery of India and are also in display in the Victoria Memorial Hall. His story of Ramayana begins with sage Valmiki and completes the circle back to his hermitage after Sita's aagnipariksha. All his 17 canvases are frequently characterized by decorative flowers, landscape, birds and animals typical of the Bengal School of Art. His lines are simple, bold and roundish initially derived from clay images but they lead to complex moments rendering subtle yet powerful emotions. Jamini Roy's complete “Ramayana” is on display today at Sarada Charan Das' residence "Rossogolla Bhavan" in Kolkata along with 8 other large-scale originals. The Das residence today harbors the largest private collection of Jamini Roy paintings with 25 of the master's originals.[9] - "Bride and two Companions", 1952, tempera on card, 75 x 39 cm. Coates described the painting: "Note the magnificent indigo of Bengal, and how the palms of the bride's hands are smeared with red sandalpaste. Jamini Roy's choice of colours looks at first sight purely decorative. In fact, nearly every thing in his pictures has a reason and a meaning."[10] It is very flat and heavily outlined. Roy portrays a traditional woman without the artificial beauty and the mythological background portraying the folk-art inspiration that has always been present since his beginnings.[11] - "Dual Cats with one Crayfish", 1968, tempera on card, 55.5 x 44 cm. Coates wrote: "Yet another new style, colours reduced in number and very restrained, an almost overwhelming sense of formality."[10] References[edit] - ↑ 1.0 1.1 "Jamini Roy (1887–1972) Biography". Indian Art Circle. Archived from the original on 24 September 2015. Retrieved 9 January 2014. - ↑ "Jamini Roy Biography - Paintings & Artworks, Life History & Achievements". Archived from the original on 11 October 2007. - ↑ Jamini Roy - Journey To The Roots. NGMA. 2013. - ↑ 4.0 4.1 "Jamini Roy: A painter's quest for an Indian identity". www.aljazeera.com. Retrieved 11 April 2017. - ↑ May 31, Indranil Banerjie; May 31, 1987 ISSUE DATE; January 8, 1987UPDATED; Ist, 2014 16:35. "Jamini Roy: The 'national artist' who produced timeless works of art". India Today. Retrieved 20 November 2019. {{cite web}} : CS1 maint: numeric names: authors list (link) - ↑ "Padma Awards" (PDF). Ministry of Home Affairs, Government of India. 2015. Archived from the original (PDF) on 15 October 2015. Retrieved 21 July 2015. - ↑ "List of Fellows". Lalit Kala Akademi. Archived from the original on 27 March 2014. Retrieved 9 January 2014. - ↑ Nine Masters Archived 4 December 2010 at the Wayback Machine Government Museum and Art Gallery, Chandigarh. "Nine Masters: Rabindranath Tagore, Amrita Sher-Gil, Jamini Roy and Nandalal Bose, Ravi Varma, Gaganendranath Tagore, Abanindranath Tagore, Sailoz Mookherjea and Nicholas Roerich." - ↑ http://www.kcdas.co.in/sarada.php - ↑ 10.0 10.1 Bonhams auction Archived 7 November 2005 at the Wayback Machine. - ↑ "Jamini Roy | artnet". www.artnet.com. Retrieved 20 November 2019. Bibliography[edit] - Bishnu Dey; John Irwin (1944). Jamini Roy. Indian Society of Oriental Art. - Six Indian painters: Rabindranath Tagore, Jamini Roy, Amrita Sher-Gil, M.F. Husain, K.G. Subramanyan, Bhupen Khakhar. Tate Gallery Publications Dept. 1982. ISBN 978-0-905005-58-4. - Jamini Roy in the Context of Indian Folk Sensibility and His Impact on Modern Art: Seminar Papers. Lalit Kala Akademi. 1992. External links[edit] - Biography at Calcuttaweb.com - "JAMINI ROY Artwork details with Auctions prices" - The First but Forgotten Exhibition by Satyasri Ukil - Jamini Roy at Prinseps - 20th-century Indian painters - Fellows of the Lalit Kala Akademi - 1887 births - 1972 deaths - People from Bankura district - Bengali male artists - Recipients of the Padma Bhushan in arts - Government College of Art & Craft alumni - University of Calcutta alumni - Modern painters - Indian portrait painters - Indian male painters - Painters from West Bengal


--- [Jamini Roy | Biography, Art, Paintings, Style, & Facts - artcreativity] ---
Career Roy began his career as a commissioned portrait painter. Somewhat abruptly in the early 1920s, he gave up commissioned portrait painting in an effort to discover his own.Roy is also described as an art machine because he produced 20,000 paintings in his lifetime which is about 10 paintings daily but made sure his artistic aims remained the same. He also used indigenous materials like lamp black, organic tempera, earth and mineral pigments to paint. Jamini Roy's paintings were put on exhibition for the first time in the British India Street of Calcutta (Kolkata) in 1938. During the 1940s, his popularity touched new highs, with the Bengali middle class and the European community becoming his main clientele. In 1946, his work was exhibited in London and in 1953, in New York. He was awarded the Padma Bhushan in 1954. His work has been exhibited extensively in international exhibitions and can be found in many private and public collections such as the Victoria and Albert Museum, London. He spent most of his life living and working in Calcutta. Initially he experimented with Kalighat paintings but found that it has ceased to be strictly a "patua" and went to learn from village patuas. Consequently, his techniques as well as subject matter was influenced by traditional art of Bengal. Works "Ramayana", 1946, Spread across 17 canvases (106 × 76 cm, each) Roy's Ramayana is considered to be his magnum opus.His story of Ramayana begins with sage Valmiki and completes the circle back to his hermitage after Sita's aagnipariksha. Awards In 1934, he received a Viceroy's gold medal in an all India exhibition for one of his work. In 1955 he was awarded the Padma Bhushan by the Government of India, the third highest award a civilian can be given.[14] In 1956, he was made the second Fellow of the Lalit Kala Akademi, the highest honour in the fine arts conferred by the Lalit Kala Akademi, India's National Academy of Art, Government of India. Death and Legacy Jamini Roy died on 24 April 1972. In 1976, the Archaeological Survey of India, Ministry of Culture, Govt. of India declared his works among the "Nine Masters" whose work, to be henceforth considered "to be art treasures, having regard to their artistic and aesthetic value".


--- [Jamini Roy - Artist Biography, Paintings, Artworks, Auction Records] ---
Biography Jamini Roy is one of the most significant modern artist of 20th century Indian Art. His search for the essence of form led him to experiment with a variety of visual styles, language and diverse forms. He continues to be one of the most respected artists in India to date. Roy was born on April 11, 1887 at Beliatore village of Bankura district in West Bengal. His parents were small estate landowners who chose to belong to a traditionally integrated community where no exclusivity was dictated by class or caste. As a young child, Roy was fascinated with patuas and their craft, he spent most days watching them work. With his interest and inclination on arts and crafts of his hometown, his father eventually sent him to the Government School of Art in Kolkatta (Calcutta). Three years at art school and soon thereafter were years of great financial hardship for Jamini Roy. He did many odd jobs like painting theatre scenes, backdrops and the like for professional theatre companies that flourished in north Kolkata. He finished his formal art education in 1916 and while he was still at the school he married Amiyasundari Devi to whom he had five sons and a daughter with. The state of financial stringency which Jamini Roy faced during his students years eased considerably when he finished his stint there. He began to be well recognized as an academic painter as well as an excellent portrait painter. Commissions kept pouring in and at his peak, it became a done thing to have a portrait painted by him. Although already a skilled painter in the naturalistic style, he flirted with the Bengal School style in an attempt to find another style of expression. It is around this time that he did a few paintings in the misty wash style with delicate figuration. He emerged with this new style of painting with the Santal community as the subject to wide acclaim. His work enjoyed positive response and found many buyers. He decided later on that this style was not for him. In Jamini Roy’s quest, he rejected the oil medium and decided not to accept portrait commissions. This decision brought on financial constraints to his family but he was undeterred. He eventually found his own metier and challenged the existing style of expression as his figuration underwent a radical change. He began to seek a purity of form and his palette was awash with brilliant, saturated colours that brazenly defied the norms of naturalism. He rejected academic realism and increasingly sought to express an indigenous voice. Folk arts specifically Bengal art and crafts traditions influenced him a great deal. He sought inspiration from Kalighat paintings and East Asian calligraphy as he made use of space division not unlike the vertical Bengal scroll paintings as well as the narrative modes used in the temple friezes.1 It is during the end of the first decade of the twentieth century, a period of political and cultural unrest in Bengal, that commenced a decade of ceaseless experiments (1920-1930) for Roy. He banished all traces of naturalism from his work and from 1924 onwards, he limited his chromatic range and painted almost monochromatic works. He began using rhythmic calligraphic lines to express volume and used subjects ranging from his favorite mother and child figures, balls, and seated women among others. However, this austere phase did not last long. Jamini Roy did not feel that the Kalighat style was an authentic expression of the genuine folk spirit and in the latter half of the decade, he once again began experimenting. Consequently, he found himself returning to his roots, where he discovered a rich storehouse of motifs, symbols and narratives which formed an integral part of his consciousness. He changed his entire vocabulary in terms of form, line, and colour. He opted for simplicity in form as evidenced of the distinctive way in which he structured his figure and simplified his forms reducing them to their bare essentials. He played with lines, space and lit the picture with an explosion of colours. He had finally found a way to communicate with his people - the villagers of Beliatore. Surprisingly, this style also resonated and stirred the imagination of the intellectual elite of Kolkata. At a time when there was much discussion and thinking of the modern Indian identity, Roy brought the living traditions of Bengal centerstage as a valid mode of cultural expression.2 By 1929, Jamini Roy held his first solo exhibition at the Government Art School. Followed by some of his noteworthy exhibitions, one held in 1937 at Kshitish Chandra Roy’s studio at British Indian street and the other one, his big solo show held in the Indian Society of Oriental Art at Samabay Mansions in the heart of Kolkata in 1938. These shows established Roy’s fame and further strengthened his interactions with the intellectuals of Kolkata. Besides being bold, experimental painter of his time, Jamini Roy enjoyed exploring different mediums and materials as well. He did not mind experimenting with decorative arts and began painting on palm leaf matting as well as designing crystalware for Steuben Glass where he etched idyllic pastoral scene on the glass surface.3 With his reputation established, the demand for Roy’s paintings kept growing through the decades; followed by accolades and recognition. The Government of India awarded the Padma Bhushan on Jamini Roy in 1955. The following year, he was chosen by Lalit Kala Akademi as a fellow and in 1961, he was given a special ceremony honoring his achievements as an artist. From the 1960s onward however, his health declined. As a result, his experimentation slowed but it was also during this time that he evolved his mosaic-like paintings, inspired with the elongated faces and figurations hints of pre-Renaissance Byzantine icons, making texture a much needed part of Roy’s visual language. The eminent artist, Jamini Roy died 1972. Four years later, in 1976, the Government of India declared his work, along with that of seven other artists, as National treasure. Text Reference: 1 2 3 Excerpts from the book Jamini Roy (1887-1972): Journey to the Roots, Ella Data, National Gallery of Modern Art, India, 2013


--- [Jamini Roy Biography - Paintings & Artworks, Life History & Achievements] ---
Fast Facts Date of Birth: April 11, 1887 Place of Birth: April 24, 1972 Date of Death: Beliatore, West Bengal, India Place of Death: Kolkata, India Profession: Painting Father: Ramataran Roy Awards: Padma Bhushan (1954), Viceroy's gold medal (1934), Fellow of the Lalit Kala Akademi (1955) Walk into an average middle-class art-loving household of West Bengal, and chances are that you might come across a well-preserved portrait of Jamini Roy rather than a fancy looking artwork of one of India’s many modern artists. The paintings had to be well-preserved, for Jamini Roy would not have sold his work, had he doubted his buyer’s passion for art. While most of the Indian painters of the 20th Century were excited about modern art, which fetched them good returns, Jamini Roy stood out for his love towards Indian roots. His passion for simple Indian folk art was such that he did not care about selling his works for fancy prices and only sold them for as little as 350 rupees. And he would buy back his works, should he find out that his paintings are maintained poorly by the buyer. Influenced by the simplicity of Kalighat paintings (Indian folk art), Jamini Roy gave up on modern art and stuck to his roots, winning millions of hearts in the process. He also gave up on using European paints and even canvases to replace them with suitable alternatives. In 1954, the Government of India honored him with Padma Bhushan for his contribution towards art. Childhood and Early Life Jamini Roy was born in the year 1887 at Beliatore village in the Bankura district of West Bengal. Roy was born into an affluent family of land-owners. His father, Ramataran Roy, resigned from his government services to pursue his interest in art. In the year 1903, when he was only 16 years old, Jamini Roy left his village and made it all the way to Calcutta (now Kolkata) to enroll himself at the Government College of Art. There, he received education under Abanindranath Tagore, famous for his valuable contribution in the field of modern art. Tagore was the vice principal of the college and trained Roy as per the prevailing academic tradition. Roy finished his education in 1908 and was given a Diploma in Fine Arts. Roy was true to the art that he learned and started painting in accordance with the Western classical style. But he straightaway realized that his heart belonged to some other form of art. Career Jamini Roy started off his career as a portrait painter but wasn’t entirely happy about being a portrait painter who worked for commission. It was in the year 1925 that he heard his true calling outside the famous Kalighat temple in Calcutta. After observing a few Kalighat paintings, displayed outside the temple, Jamini instinctively knew what his preference and interest was, when it came to art. He knew that the Bengali folk art could be used as a stone to bring down not two but three birds –a way to simplify and portray the lives of common people; to make his art accessible to all; to bring back the glory of Indian art. From that moment onwards, his paintings started reflecting the Kalighat style of art. By the early 1930s, Jamini Roy became fully conversant with the lines of the Kalighat idiom and produced more number of art works. In 1938, his art works became the first Indian paintings to be displayed at a British-ruled street in Calcutta. Jamini’s thought process began to bear fruit in the 1940s when his works were bought by average middle-class Indians. What surprised him though was the interest shown by the European community towards purchasing his paintings. With the passage of time, his paintings were only reflecting the indigenous art of Kalighat painting, along with the terracotta's of the Bishnupur temple. In the following years, his works were exhibited at prestigious shows in places like London and New York City. By now, Jamini Roy had accomplished what he had intended to do when he first switched over from the Western classical styleto the folk art of Bengal. Jamini Roy’s Style Jamini Roy’s paintings that belong to the early 1920’s reflect the influences of the Bengal School of art. Initially, he came up with some excellent paintings that marked his entry into the Post-Impressionist genre of landscapes and portraits. Later in his career, several of his many paintings were based on the everyday life of rural Bengal. Then, there were numerous ones revolving around religious themes like Ramayana, Radha-Krishna, Jesus Christ, etc. Jamini Roy also painted scenes from the lives of the aboriginals called Santhals. Throughout his works, his brush strokes were largely bold and sweeping. Around mid-1930s, Jamini Roy moved away from the conventional practice of painting on canvases and started painting on materials like cloth, mats and even wood coated with lime. He also started experimenting with natural colors and pigments derived from mud, chalk powder and flowers instead of European paints. Prominent Works - Ramayana – Art lovers and critics would unanimously agree that his 1946 masterpiece ‘Ramayana’ is his magnum opus. Created using Kalighatpata style, this particular work of his is a series of paintings portrayed across 17 canvases. Roy used vegetable colors and pigments derived from natural elements to narrate his version of the great Indian epic. Sarada Charan Das, the successor of K.C. Das, bought the entire series, which now adorns the walls of his residence ‘Rossogolla Bhavan.’ The residence boasts of the artist’s largest private collection with 25 of his original paintings. Jamini Roy also came up with individual episodes of Ramayana, some of which are now displayed in places like the National Art Gallery of India and the Victoria Memorial Hall. - Dual Cats with one Crayfish - Jamini Roy, during his lifetime, came up with a number of paintings portraying cats, which are now collectively called as the cat series. This particular art was created in the year 1968. The painting looks somewhat restrained when it comes to the usage of colors but has a distinctive style to it. - Bride and two Companions – Painted in the year 1952, this particular piece stands out for its majestic indigo of Bengal. Critics described this painting as having a meaning and reason attached to every aspect of it. Image source: Pinterest - Crucifixion with Attendant Angels – This painting depicts the crucifixion of Jesus Christ. Opaque watercolor is used on a material that is made out of woven palm fiber. - Krishna and Balarama – Lord Krishna is depicted along with his brother Balarama in this painting. Roy had used distinct earthy colors against a majestic red color backdrop. - Santal Boy with Drum – Jamini Roy came up with a number of paintings depicting the Santal tribe as the people belonging to this particular tribe fascinated him. This particular painting was created in the year 1935. - Krishna and Radha Series – Roy created a series of paintings depicting the colorful life of Radha and Krishna. He even painted the life of Krishna along with his other Gopis (girlfriends). Image source: http://arjuna-vallabha.tumblr.com/post/125189823677 - Makara – ‘Makara’ is a strange looking sea animal mentioned in the mythological tales of ancient India. Roy created this painting in the year 1945. While most of his paintings revolve around people, one might wonder what prompted him to paint this mythological creature. - St. Ann and the Blessed Virgin – All his paintings that represented the Christian iconography had Hindu idioms, making his works that much more interesting. This particular painting had three versions and was created in the year 1945. - Seated Woman in Sari – This is arguably one of the most recognizable works of Jamini Roy. It was created in the year 1947. Recognition Jamini Roy’s art works have been displayed in museums all over the world. Among the most important museums that showcase his paintings, Victoria and Albert Museum in London are widely recognized by art lovers. One can find a host of his paintings there, thanks to public and private collections. In 1955, he became the first Indian painter to be honored with Fellow of the Lalit Kala Akademi by Lalit Kala Akademi, Indian Government's National Academy of Art. Fellow of the Lalit Kala Akademi is the highest honor conferred by the Academy in the field of fine arts. In the year 1976, his works were included among the ‘Nine Masters’ by the Archaeological Survey of India. The ‘Nine Masters’ are considered as art treasures because of their artistic and aesthetic value. To celebrate Roy's 130th birth anniversary, Google came up with a special Google Doodle on 11 April, 2017. Awards Throughout his glittering career, Jamini Roy won many prestigious awards. Some of the prominent ones are given below: - Viceroy's Gold Medal – In the year 1934, he received this prestigious gold medal for one of his paintings at an all India exhibition. - Padma Bhushan – The Government of India honored him with the country’s third highest civilian award in the year 1954. Personal Life Not much is known about Jamini Roy’s personal life, apart from the fact that he fathered four sons and a daughter. He spent most of his life in Calcutta and dedicated almost all his time to his work. Perhaps, that is the reason why we don’t know much about his personal life today. Jamini Roy was a simple person and led a non-materialistic lifestyle. He wasn’t too concerned about making money and was more focused on taking the glory of Indian art to the world stage. This perhaps will remain as one of his greatest legacies. Jamini Roy’s died on April 24, 1972, a few days after he celebrated his 85th birthday.
