=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Music Therapy: Treatment, Procedure, Cost and Side Effects]
Jan 20, 2025 · A music therapy session can be broadly divided into active and receptive techniques. Active techniques generally involve making music by chanting, singing, playing musical instruments or even composing or improvising music. The techniques used in receptive treatment include listening to and responding to music – through dance or by analyzing the lyrics of a song. Both active and passive ...
URL: https://www.lybrate.com/topic/music-therapy

[Khus Khus Benefits And Its Side Effects | Lybrate]
Jan 20, 2025 · Khus Khus with its several mineral and vitamins accelerates the diminishing of scars and other marks from the skin. It promotes growth of new tissues that replaces the discolored and dead tissues in the affected area. Cosmetics prepared from Khus Khus are useful for treating post-delivery stretch marks, spots left by chicken pox and repairs cracked heals.
URL: https://www.lybrate.com/topic/khus-khus-benefits-and-side-effects

[Lebanon]
LebanonUpdatesRed Mail24Tel AvivJaffaSearchMainIsrael NewsMideast World NewsTech DigitalReal EstateFinanceLifestyleLifestyleHealth ScienceJewish WorldTravelMoreChannels. US Ambassador to Turkey Thomas Barrack warns Hezbollah still wields 40000 fighters and 20000...
URL: https://www.ynetnews.com/topics/Lebanon

[Open Letter from Hezbollah – ورد الآن]
Open Letter from Hezbollah to President of Lebanon, Prime Minister of Lebanon and Lebanese people. Hezbollah expresses its keenness for national understanding. Lebanon and Hezbollah have strictly abided by the contents of the ceasefire declaration from the momen...
URL: https://waradalan.com/59946/

[Lebanon Under Siege with Ghadi Francis: Inside Israel's Plan to Disarm Hezbollah]
Ghadi Francis tells Adley Adley that neutralizing Hezbollah has long been a dream of Washington but one that is far easier said than done. The idea of the disarmament of Hezbollah has been going around by the US and its pawns in Lebanese politics for over a deca...
URL: https://www.mintpressnews.com/us-israel-target-hezbollah-lebanon/290498/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Music Therapy: Treatment, Procedure, Cost and Side Effects] ---
Music Therapy: Treatment, Procedure, Cost and Side Effects Last Updated: Jan 20, 2025 What is the treatment? Music therapy, which is also known as active music therapy or passive music therapy, can be used to treat motor control problems and emotional impairment that is associated with a range of diseases and disabilities. Music has a strong and immediate influence over emotions and has been used in therapy since time immemorial. It helps to naturally increase the neuro-chemicals in our body that aid in elevating our mood. Music therapy has helped people with complex problems like schizophrenia and Parkinson’s disease and also helps to decrease symptoms like depression and anxiety. It also aids in improving cognitive function. It is based on the use of music by a therapist and a patient and this is done in a one-on-one setting or in a group. There are two types of music therapy: active music therapy and passive music therapy. There is active interaction between the therapist and patient in active music therapy. In case of passive music therapy, the patient normally remains at rest and listens to what the therapist tells him/her. There are five different conditions for which music therapy has proved to be effective. The different conditions include autism, dementia and depression. Music played to the womb during late pregnancy help the newborn to be less agitated and more relaxed. Music therapy can also help to improve sleep quality. How is the treatment done? A music therapy session can be broadly divided into active and receptive techniques. Active techniques generally involve making music by chanting, singing, playing musical instruments or even composing or improvising music. The techniques used in receptive treatment include listening to and responding to music – through dance or by analyzing the lyrics of a song. Both active and passive techniques are combined to treat a person and they are usually used as the point of initiation of the whole treatment. Music therapy helps to increase a person’s self-awareness and expression, stimulation of speech, self-acceptance, motor integration, improve communication and relationships with others and also help to imbibe a sense of belonging. Different individuals have different tastes in music and respond differently to different forms of music. Therefore therapists try to make sure that the melody as well as the lyrics of a selected song match with the psychological state and mood of the patient. Another essential component of music therapy involves composing original songs or even modifying already existing ones. Music therapy helps a person to communicate using short phrases or singing words if he/she has trouble with communication due to a physical ailment. This therapy also helps a person having problems with movement to initiate, coordinate and finally time their movements. Music also helps children who suffer from autism. Group therapy not only helps a person to relax but also provides an outlet for pent-up feelings and also helps to improve the feeling of social connectedness among the members. Who is eligible for the treatment? (When is the treatment done?) A person suffering from serious ailments like Parkinson’s disease or Alzheimer’s will derive some benefits from music therapy. Furthermore, people suffering from depression, mood-related concerns, substance dependency, autism, personality issues, insomnia and dementia are eligible for treatment. People can find relief from physical and psychological ailments by practicing music therapy. It is extremely beneficial for those who find it difficult to express themselves verbally. People normally manifest more interest in this therapy than in any traditional therapy. Who is not eligible for the treatment? There is no hard and fast rule which determines who is eligible and who is not eligible for music treatment. People suffering from serious and psychiatric issues should consult a doctor and undertake alternate therapy. This is because music therapy may not be able to treat their condition effectively. So people suffering from serious ailments are not eligible for this treatment. Are there any side effects? There are no such side-effects of music therapy for the brain. However, if treatment is done with music that does not suit the psychology or mood of the patient, a person’s mental disorder may worsen. Listening to loud music for a long period of time may cause hearing impairment. What are the post-treatment guidelines? There are no such post-treatment guidelines for music therapy. This is a therapy that mostly helps to deal with psychiatric and psychological disorders. People can continue with music therapy if they feel that they are benefitting from it. However, they may also need to go for alternate treatment to treat a chronic condition as music therapy does not completely eradictae the problem. How long does it take to recover? Music therapy uses music in an active or in a passive manner to deal with psychological conditions and even physical ailments. The time to recover depends on the type and severity of the ailment. A person with impaired motor skills may gradually respond to music therapy. A child suffering from autism will also take some time to respond to music therapy. Some people may experience some benefits faster than others. So it is difficult to pinpoint the exact recovery period. What is the price of the treatment in India? Music therapy involves going to a therapist for a one-on-one session or taking part in a group therapy session. However, several music CDs are also available that help one to undertake this therapy at home only. CDs are available within a price range of Rs 100 – Rs 500. However, music therapy sessions to treat a particular condition can cost a person around Rs 200000. Are the results of the treatment permanent? Music therapy helps to control the symptoms of a particular ailment but does not actually treat it. A person may benefit from music therapy as long as he/she is undergoing the therapy. He/she might need to adopt alternative measures if he/she suffers from a chronic ailment or from some serious disease. However, children with autism and other people who have problems in expressing themselves may experience some permanent results by continuously undertaking music therapy. What are the alternatives to the treatment? Music therapy is itself an alternative mode of treatment. This is a unique treatment and there are no such alternatives to it. References - What is Music Therapy- American Music Therapy Association [Internet]. musictherapy.org 2019 [Cited 14 August 2019]. Available from: - Music Therapy- GoodTherapy [Internet]. goodtherapy.org 2015 [Cited 14 August 2019]. Available from: - Thaut MH, Janzen TB. Neurologic Music Therapy. InHandbook of Interdisciplinary Treatments for Autism Spectrum Disorder 2019 (pp. 375-395). Springer, Cham. [Cited 14 August 2019]. Available from: - Top Alternative Medicine Specialist in Delhi - Top Alternative Medicine Specialist in Mumbai - Top Alternative Medicine Specialist in Gurgaon - Top Alternative Medicine Specialist in Pune - Top Alternative Medicine Specialist in Kolkata - Top Alternative Medicine Specialist in Bangalore - Top Alternative Medicine Specialist in Chennai - Top Alternative Medicine Specialist in Hyderabad Table of content 15+ Years of Surgical Experience All Insurances Accepted EMI Facility Available at 0% Rate Find Alternative Medicine Specialist near me Ask a free question Get FREE multiple opinions from Doctors


--- [Khus Khus Benefits And Its Side Effects | Lybrate] ---
No content


--- [Lebanon] ---
Updates Red Mail 19° Tel Aviv-Jaffa Search Main Israel News Mideast & World News Tech & Digital Real Estate Finance Lifestyle Health & Science Jewish World Travel More Channels Opinions Magazine Sports Food Weather Podcasts Sites & Sources Ynet Calcalist yad2 ynetespanol Вести mynet Contact Contact us Privacy Policy Terms of Use Accessibility Statement main Israel News Mideast & World News Tech & Digital Real Estate Finance Lifestyle Health & Science Jewish World Travel 19° Weather YnetGlobal Channels Opinions & Analysis Magazine Food Sports Weather Podcasts Sites & Sources ynet calcalist yad2 Español Вести mynet more channels Israel News Mideast & World News Tech & Digital Finance Lifestyle Health & Science Travel Contact Contact us Privacy Policy Terms of Use Accessibility Statement Tags Lebanon Hezbollah’s strategical misstep gives Israel rare opening on Lebanon front Commentary: While Iran remains the primary front, the IDF is striking Hezbollah’s finances, killing senior operatives and seizing territory south of the Litani River; Beirut faces mounting pressure as Israel warns Syria not to interfere Ron Ben-Yishai | 03.03.26 Israel sees Iran strikes as chance to weaken Hezbollah on Lebanon front Northern Command says gains against Tehran could shift balance in Lebanon; officials warn Hezbollah miscalculated after Khamenei’s killing and say current blows could, in time, lead to the group’s dismantling Elisha Ben Kimon | 03.03.26 IDF pushes into southern Lebanon seeking to blunt Hezbollah threat Military says troops holding positions inside southern Lebanon to reinforce forward defense against Iran-backed group, as extensive strikes on Hezbollah infrastructure continue 'to thwart threats and prevent infiltration attempts' into Israeli territory ynet Global | 03.03.26 Sirens in greater Tel Aviv, Sharon and Shfela; Tehran, Beirut hit in waves of strikes; IDF vows campaign will continue until Lebanon threat removed IDF continues strikes in Iran, Air Force has dropped 2,500 munitions so far; bombings continue against Hezbollah targets after it joined the fighting; chief of staff warns of 'many days of combat' Ron Crissy | 03.02.26 IDF says Hezbollah intel chief in Beirut killed; launches wave of strikes in Lebanon and Tehran Air Force and Navy target command centers in Beirut’s Dahieh and across Lebanon; additional broad strike underway against Iranian regime targets in the heart of Tehran; the military also revealed scope of Operation Roaring Lion: 600 Iranian sites hit, 110,000 reservists mobilized ynet Global | 03.02.26 Lebanon PM bars Hezbollah from military action on its soil after rocket fire at Israel After Hezbollah launched rockets and drones at Israel, Prime Minister Nawaf Salam says only the government can decide on war or peace, limits the group to political activity and demands its weapons be handed over Lior Ben Ari | 03.02.26 Hezbollah risks stinging Lebanon like the scorpion and the frog Opinion: The terrorist organization could not avoid responding to the Israeli attack on Iran and the assassination of its greatest and most significant patron, Iran's Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei Avi Issacharoff | 03.02.26 Hezbollah signals, but stops short of war Commentary: Limited rocket and drone fire toward open areas suggests terrorist group is balancing loyalty to Iran with domestic pressure at home, as Israel weighs whether to escalate along the northern border Ron Ben-Yishai | 03.02.26 Video appears to show first combat use of Israel’s Iron Beam laser defense system Footage circulating on social media shows apparent drone interception as Hezbollah fires rockets from Lebanon, opening northern front in parallel with war against Iran Yair Kraus | 03.02.26 Why Hezbollah is holding back — for now Analysis: Lebanon’s leadership is closely watching US and Israeli strikes and Iran’s response, determined to avoid being seen as cooperating with Israel while trying to keep Hezbollah from dragging the country into war Smadar Shiloni | 03.01.26 After Israel-US strike on Iran, Lebanon PM warns Hezbollah against dragging country into 'adventures' Nawaf Salam urges restraint amid regional escalation, says Lebanon’s security and unity must come first as Israel warns of severe response if Hezbollah joins conflict Reuters | 02.28.26 As Israel, US strike Iran, IDF hits Hezbollah sites in south Lebanon Military says positions and subterranean infrastructure were used to advance terror plots, warns Hezbollah is rebuilding in breach of Israel-Lebanon understandings amid fears of wider regional escalation Lior Ben Ari | 02.28.26 IDF braces for possible Hezbollah showdown as US weighs strike on Iran Military says it has immediate operational plans along Lebanon border as officials assess risk of a multi-front conflict involving Hezbollah, Houthis in Yemen, Iraqi militias and Hamas in Gaza Elisha Ben Kimon | 02.27.26 US has only days of strike capacity against Iran; Israel warns Lebanon civilian infrastructure will be hit An Israeli intelligence official was quoted in Britain as saying the US can sustain four to five days of intensive strikes on Iran, or a week at lower intensity; Lebanese officials warn Israel may hit civilian infrastructure and satellite images show a buildup of US aircraft near Iran News Agencies | 02.24.26 US military aircraft land in Israel amid Iran tensions; Netanyahu: 'We are prepared for any scenario' As Washington prepares for a possible strike on Iran, US aircraft were seen parked at Ben Gurion Airport while Israel remained silent; about 50 American personnel and relatives were evacuated from Lebanon; Netanyahu warned: 'No one knows what tomorrow will bring' Lior Ben Ari, Itamar Eichner | 02.23.26 More Articles Hot Tags Today This Week This Month Judicial reform Ahmad al-Sharaa Airstrike Amsterdam Antisemitism Ariel Bibas Benjamin Netanyahu Bitcoin Climate crisis Columbia University Hot Tags Today This Week This Month Judicial reform Ahmad al-Sharaa Airstrike Amsterdam Antisemitism Ariel Bibas Benjamin Netanyahu Bitcoin Climate crisis Columbia University Related Tags IDF War Iran Hezbollah Israeli Air Force Eyal Zamir Operation Roaring Lion Drone Dahieh Naim Qassem ""


--- [Open Letter from Hezbollah – ورد الآن] ---
In the Name of God, the Most Gracious, the Most Merciful An Open Letter from Hezbollah: To His Excellency the President of the Lebanese Republic, General Joseph Aoun To His Excellency the Speaker of the Lebanese Parliament, Mr Nabih Berri To His Excellency the Prime Minister of Lebanon, Mr Nawaf Salam To our proud and steadfast people of Lebanon, Greetings and respect, Out of Hezbollah’s keenness for national understanding, the protection of sovereignty, and the preservation of security and stability in Lebanon; and in contribution to strengthening and supporting a unified Lebanese position against the Zionist aggression and its ongoing violations of the ceasefire declared following the mediation efforts of US envoy Amos Hochstein after indirect negotiations between the Lebanese State and the Zionist entity—and in order to block attempts to drag the Lebanese State into new rounds of negotiations serving only the interests and objectives of the Zionist enemy and the forces of domination hostile to truth and justice—we hereby express to you, esteemed leaders, and through you to all our beloved people of Lebanon, our vision regarding the national stance required, which we are committed to and consider the effective path to safeguarding Lebanon’s interests during this critical period our region and the world are passing through. The ceasefire declaration of November 27, 2024, which was agreed upon to halt the Zionist aggression against Lebanon, constituted- according to the parties to the agreement, individually and collectively- an implementation mechanism for UN Security Council Resolution 1701, issued in 2006. That resolution defined the area of operations exclusively as South of the Litani River in Lebanon, stipulating that this area be cleared of weapons and armed elements, and that the “Israeli” enemy withdraw beyond the well-known Blue Line. While the declaration stated in its preamble that its provisions were steps toward implementing Resolution 1701, Article 1 of the declaration provided as follows: “‘Israel’ and Lebanon shall implement a cessation of hostilities as of 4:00 am on Wednesday, November 27, 2024, in accordance with the detailed commitments set forth below.” Article 2 stated: “As of 4:00 am on Wednesday, November 27, 2024, and thereafter, the Lebanese government shall prevent Hezbollah and all other armed groups in Lebanese territory from carrying out any operations against ‘Israel’, and ‘Israel’ shall not conduct any offensive military operations against Lebanese territory—including civilian, military, or other targets belonging to the State—by land, air, or sea.” The provisions continued through Article 13. While facts on the ground confirm that Lebanon and Hezbollah have strictly abided by the contents of the ceasefire declaration from the moment of its issuance until today, the Zionist enemy has nonetheless continued its violations and breaches of the declaration [in land, sea, and air]. It continues to do so to this moment, disregarding all calls to cease these hostile practices. Instead, the enemy has exploited these calls to blackmail Lebanon, imposing conditions and demands to evade halting its aggression, persisting in its project to subjugate Lebanon, humiliate its state, people, and army, and drag it into a political agreement through which it would extract Lebanese recognition of the enemy’s interests in our country and region—along with recognition of the legitimacy of its forcible occupation of others’ land in Palestine. Although the government’s hasty decision regarding the exclusivity of arms was presented by some as a gesture of Lebanese goodwill toward the enemy, the latter exploited this governmental mistake to impose the issue of disarming the resistance throughout Lebanon as a precondition for ending its hostilities. This was neither stipulated in the ceasefire declaration nor can ever be accepted or imposed. The matter of arms’ exclusiveness can’t be discussed in response to foreign pressure or “Israeli” blackmail, but rather only within a national framework of consensus, as part of a comprehensive strategy for security, defense, and the protection of national sovereignty. Let it be clear to all Lebanese that the “Israeli” enemy does not target Hezbollah alone, but all of Lebanon. It further seeks to strip Lebanon of every capacity to reject the Zionist entity’s extortionist demands and to impose submission to its policies and interests in Lebanon and the region. This demands a unified, dignified national stance that compels respect for our country and people and safeguards Lebanon’s sovereignty and honor. As for becoming entangled in the traps of new negotiations, this would only bring further gains to the “Israeli” enemy, which always takes and never honors its obligations, giving nothing in return. With this ferocious enemy, supported by American tyranny, no maneuver or pretense can succeed. Thus, Lebanon’s duty at present is to insist on the cessation of aggression in accordance with the ceasefire text and to pressure the Zionist enemy to abide by it and not to submit to extortion or to enter political negotiations with the Zionist entity under any circumstances. Such a course serves no national interest and poses existential risks that threaten Lebanon’s very sovereignty and survival. In conclusion, as a founding component of Lebanon- our final homeland for all its sons- we reaffirm our legitimate right to resist occupation and aggression, and to stand beside our army and our people in defending the sovereignty of our country. Legitimate defense does not fall under the rubric of “a decision of war or peace,” but is rather an exercise of our right to resist an enemy that wages war upon us, continues its aggression, and seeks to subjugate our State.


--- [Lebanon Under Siege with Ghadi Francis: Inside Israel's Plan to Disarm Hezbollah] ---
Fresh from its success in overthrowing the government of Syria and the assassination of the prime minister of Yemen, the U.S.-Israeli alliance has its sights set on a new target: Hezbollah. Last week, the United States government sent $230 million in military aid to the Lebanese Army. This enormous weapons package was green lit with one objective: to dismantle Hezbollah as a force capable of resisting Israeli attacks. In September, the Lebanese government rubber-stamped the Trump administration’s plan to disarm the civilian-military organization, which holds 15 seats in the Lebanese parliament. Returning to the MintCast to discuss the tense political situation in her native Lebanon is Ghadi Francis. Ghadi Francis is an author, journalist, and war correspondent who has covered the political situation across West Asia in great detail. Hezbollah, of course, has shown no interest in unilaterally laying down its weapons, knowing what happened to other groups that disarmed. In 1982, after the Israeli invasion of Lebanon, the Palestinian Liberation Organization agreed, as part of the peace treaty, to give up its arms. What immediately followed were the Sabra and Shatila massacres, where Israeli forces slaughtered thousands of Palestinian civilians in Lebanon. And after Colonel Gaddafi agreed to destroy his weapons of mass destruction, Libya was bombed, invaded, and overthrown. Today, the country lies in ruins, as different radical, Western-backed factions vie for power. Hezbollah has also proven itself to be the only force in Lebanon with both the desire and the ability to resist Israeli aggression. While the Lebanese military meekly accepted Israeli attacks, Hezbollah fought back. Thus, it is far from clear whether the Lebanese Army will be willing and able to carry out the mission the Trump administration has paid it to do. What is certain, though, is that any moves against Hezbollah could trigger a bloodbath inside the country. Francis told Adley today that neutralizing Hezbollah has long been a dream of Washington, but one that is far easier said than done: Here in Lebanon, the idea of the disarmament of Hezbollah has been going around by the U.S. and its pawns in Lebanese politics for over a decade. It has actually been there since the start of Hezbollah in the 1980s, because anybody who is armed against Israel is always cornered by U.S. policies.” Last September, Israel carried out a successful assassination strike against Hezbollah leader, Hassan Nasrallah. Yet the organization was not broken, and remains a force to be reckoned with inside Lebanon. Francis noted that, since the assassination, it has bided its time and “laid low”. Ghadi Francis is one of the most principled and incisive voices covering Lebanon in English. Keep up to date with recent events in the country by watching the full interview, only at MintPress News. Mnar Adley is an award-winning journalist and editor and is the founder and director of MintPress News. She is also president and director of the non-profit media organization Behind the Headlines. Adley also co-hosts the MintCast podcast and is a producer and host of the video series Behind The Headlines. Contact Mnar at [email protected] or follow her on Twitter at @mnarmuh.
