=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[House of the Dragon Director Explains Episode 8's Shocking ...]
Oct 10, 2022 · Before the King's court, Vaemond Velaryon (Wil Johnson) brazenly slandered Rhaenyra's children while trying to claim the satellite throne of Driftmark for himself. In one of the series' most gratuitously violent scenes yet, Vaemond's head is sliced off by Daemon as punishment.
URL: https://screenrant.com/house-dragon-vaemond-velaryon-beheaded-death-scene-explained/

[Vaemond Velaryon - Wiki of Westeros - Fandom]
Vaemond: "I speak the truth, Rhaenys, and you know it." — Rhaenys and Vaemond. My brother cares only for the history books, but what of the Velaryon line?
URL: https://gameofthrones.fandom.com/wiki/Vaemond_Velaryon

[‘House Of The Dragon’: Daemon Kills Vaemond In Epic Episode 8 ...]
Rhaenyra and Daemon go to see Viserys in his chambers. At first, Daemon stays outside Viserys’ room, almost as if he’s afraid of what he’ll see. Viserys is extremely ill and looks completely unrecognizable. Rhaenyra helps her father up as Daemon comes to stand by her side. It’s difficult for Daemon to see his brother like this. They explain what’s ...
URL: https://hollywoodlife.com/2022/10/09/house-of-the-dragon-daemon-kills-vaemond-viserys-dies-episode-8-recap/

[Should Daemon's murder of Vaemond Velaryon be considered a violation ...]
Daemon wasn't ordered or given permission to kill Vaemond. As others have pointed out the king clearly wanted his tongue, not to kill him. Why ...
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/HouseOfTheDragon/comments/10kg50c/should_daemons_murder_of_vaemond_velaryon_be/

[House of the Dragon - S01E08 - The Lord of the Tides ...]
Oct 12, 2022 · When an enraged Vaemond denounces Rhaenyra as a whore and her children bastards, Daemon beheads him. During a feast, the family appears to mend their differences.
URL: https://scrapsfromtheloft.com/tv-series/house-of-the-dragon-s01e08-lord-of-tides-transcript/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [House of the Dragon Director Explains Episode 8's Shocking ...] ---
WARNING! This article contains SPOILERS for Fire & Blood and House of the Dragon season 1, episode 8!House of the Dragon director Geeta Patel has revealed what went into House of the Dragon season 1, episode 8's shocking beheading scene. The prequel series, set roughly 200 years before the events of Game of Thrones, has all the stunning violence its predecessor is known for. Airing on HBO Max, House of the Dragon has two episodes remaining in its first season and the on-screen gore has picked up as the series approaches its climax. The tension in King's Landing is mounting as House of the Dragon season 1, episode 8 featured the end of a slow death by leprosy for King Viserys Targaryen (Paddy Considine). His daughter and heir Rhaenyra (Emma D'Arcy) is due to ascend to the throne, but her one-time friend and present rival Queen Alicent (Olivia Cooke) has a close circle of conspirators aiming to prevent her rise. Much of the Westorosi court, including the powerful Velaryons, take issue with Rhaenyra because the illegitimacy of her children is an open secret that even King Viserys himself was in denial of. Rhaenyra, now married to her violence-prone uncle Daemon (Matt Smith), has no intention of ceding the throne and will punish those who attempt to discount what she and her children are owed. King Viserys held his last meeting from perched on the Iron Throne in season 1, episode 8. King Viserys arrived hobbled and weakened by his disease, and needed the assistance of his brother Daemon to take his seat. Before the King's court, Vaemond Velaryon (Wil Johnson) brazenly slandered Rhaenyra's children while trying to claim the satellite throne of Driftmark for himself. In one of the series' most gratuitously violent scenes yet, Vaemond's head is sliced off by Daemon as punishment. House of the Dragon season 1, episode 8 director Geeta Patel appeared on The Official Game of Thrones Podcast: House of the Dragon to unpack what went into Vaemond's beheading both stylistically and narratively. Read Patel's comments below: "Since I read the script I had always seen the head just coming off while he was talking. In my head, it was always that element of surprise. When I think of Daemon, he's quick. When I think of the moment, everything was so charged, and you just never knew what someone was going to say, how it was all gonna happen. So, that was always what I story-boarded first, just the simplicity of it. That Vaemond is arguing with Viserys, and all the sudden, Vaemond's head comes off. There is no special shot for that moment, per se, after yes, but in that moment it's literally just his close up shot. He could've kept talking, he could've kept arguing, and I think there is something great about that. Because it was an important moment, we shot also it in a way that we followed Daemon from where he was standing, and you would see him go across, and then he would come and chop off Vaemond's head. A lot of times, we'll shoot something, if its very important dramatically, we'd want the options in edit. So I usually shoot more than one version, because I think it's good for the showrunners to have that. It still makes me smile, I love it. Viserys is yelling at him, and the guys head just comes off, it's great. How many jobs can you do that on? This is why I love Game of Thrones. You can do stuff like that, and its Game of Thrones, its House of the Dragon." What Vaemond's Death Means for House of the Dragon Season 1's Remaining Episodes Vaemond, as a character, was of modest significance. Brother to Lord Corlys (Steve Toussaint), Vaemond was of a family that was sure to be wedged out of power by Rhaenyra's children, who are not of his blood but carry his name. Vaemond's graphic death represents the seriousness with which accusations against Rhaenyra's children will be treated without King Viserys around to keep the peace. For years, slander towards Rhaenyra's children had resulted in raised voices, scrapes, threats, and backroom operating. An ailing King Viserys had suggested removing Vaemond's tongue for his slight and Daemon took his whole head. As Patel explained, his death serves as an imporant inflection point in the series. The House of the Dragon season 1, episode 9 trailer reveals that is is indeed a new day in King's Landing. House of the Dragon season 1, episode 8 also revealed that Vaemond's nieces, the daughters of Daemon and his now-deceased wife Laena (Nana Blondell), were betrothed to Rhaenyra's sons Jace (Harry Collett) and Luke (Elliot Grihault). With Vaemond dead, and Lord Corlys in critical condition, there will be no vocal, male Velaryon voice to resist the marriages that will further the strength of Rhaenyra's cohort. The Velaryon family's loss of power is still felt 200 years later, as House Velaryon is of minor influence in the Game of Thrones series. Source: The Official Game of Thrones Podcast: House of the Dragon


--- [Vaemond Velaryon - Wiki of Westeros - Fandom] ---
- "What do you know of Velaryon blood, princess? I could cut my veins and show it to you and you still wouldn't recognize it. This is about the future and survival of my house, not yours. My queen, my lord Hand, this is a matter of blood, not ambition. I place the continuation of the survival of my house and my line above all." - ―Vaemond Velaryon Ser Vaemond Velaryon was a knight of House Velaryon. He was the younger brother of Corlys Velaryon and a commander in the Velaryon navy.[6] Biography[] Background[] Vaemond is the younger brother of Lord Corlys Velaryon, the Lord of the Tides and Master of Driftmark. He serves his brother and his house as a commander in the Velaryon fleet. Vaemond is proud of the ancient lineage of House Velaryon and its Valyrian heritage.[7] House of the Dragon: Season 1[] Vaemond fights in the War for the Stepstones. Three years into the drawn-out conflict, Vaemond petitions King Viserys I Targaryen for reinforcements, unbeknownst to the other commanders. Although he expresses misgivings concerning the plan to use Daemon Targaryen as bait during the siege of Bloodstone to the extent that his nephew Laenor Velaryon dubs him the "master of complaints," Vaemond partakes in the ultimately successful plan.[2] About a year after the victory in the Stepstones, Vaemond is present alongside the rest of his family at the wedding between Laenor Velaryon and Rhaenyra Targaryen. He is seated at the great table alongside his family members.[8] Vaemond leads Laena Velaryon's funeral procession on Driftmark in High Valyrian. During his eulogy, Vaemond includes several pointed remarks about Velaryon blood remaining pure while glancing at the supposed children of Rhaenyra and Laenor, Jacaerys and Lucerys Velaryon, who look nothing like Laenor or other Velaryons. Vaemond's choice to bring up the children's questionable paternity during the eulogy elicits laughter from Laena's widower Daemon.[4] After Corlys is injured fighting in the Stepstones, Vaemond intensifies his efforts to keep Lucerys Velaryon from inheriting Driftmark. After Vaemond is reminded by Rhaenys that Corlys named Lucerys his heir, Vaemond travels to King's Landing to make his case before the king that he should instead be named heir. Upon arrival to the Red Keep, Vaemond speaks with Otto and Alicent Hightower, who—due to their animosity towards Rhaenyra—support his claim.[1] During an audience in the throne room, with Otto Hightower sitting on the Iron Throne as Hand of the King owing to King Viserys being bedridden, Vaemond makes the case that he is a true Velaryon and the closest kin of Corlys whereas Rhaenyra's sons are not. Before Rhaenyra has time to make her own case, Viserys enters the throne room to the surprise of everyone present and takes charge of the proceedings. Realizing that he has no chance of convincing the king to disinherit his own grandchildren, Vaemond becomes irate and aggressive, shouting that Rhaenyra's children are bastards and calling Rhaenyra herself a "whore."[1] Vaemond's slander of the royal family is deemed to be treason[7] and Viserys threatens to remove Vaemond's tongue himself. Before he is able to, Daemon decapitates him from behind using Dark Sister. A group of Silent Sisters later prepare Vaemond's body for transportation back to Driftmark, while Rhaenys watches.[1] Personality[] Vaemond was proud of his Velaryon heritage.[7] He saw himself as the rightful heir to Driftmark on account of the rumors surrounding the legitimacy of his great-nephews.[1] His brother considered him heedlessly ambitious.[3] Quotes[] Spoken by Vaemond[] - Rhaenys: "Be careful, good-brother. One could take your words for treason." - Vaemond: "I speak the truth, Rhaenys, and you know it." - — Rhaenys and Vaemond[src] - "My brother cares only for the history books, but what of the Velaryon line? Is it to be snuffed out, supplanted by the pups of House Strong? Driftmark is mine by all rights." - ―Vaemond, to Rhaenys - "You break law and centuries of tradition to install your daughter as heir. Yet you dare tell me who deserves to inherit the name Velaryon? No. I will not allow it." - ―Vaemond, to Viserys I - Vaemond: "You may run your house as you see fit, but you will not decide the future of mine. My house survived the Doom, and a thousand tribulations besides, and gods be damned, I will not see it ended on the account of this b..." - Daemon: "Say it." - Vaemond: "Her children... are bastards! And she... is... a whore." - — Vaemond's last words[src] Spoken about Vaemond[] - "What role have you played in this council, uncle, other than Master of Complaints?" - ―Laenor, to Vaemond - "Lucerys is my trueborn grandson, and you are no more than the second son of Driftmark." - ―Viserys I, to Vaemond - "He can keep his tongue." - ―Daemon, after killing Vaemond - Rhaenys: "Your brother is also dead. In his haste to bury you and claim your seat, he stood before the king and denounced Laenor's sons as illegitimate. Daemon took his head for it." - Corlys: "Heedless ambition has always been a Velaryon weakness." - — Rhaenys and Corlys discuss Vaemond[src] Family[] | Daemon Velaryon Deceased | Lady Velaryon Deceased | Aenys I Targaryen Deceased | Alyssa Velaryon Deceased | |||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||| | Corwyn Velaryon Deceased | Wife Deceased | House Targaryen | ||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||| | Marilda of Hull | Corlys Velaryon | Rhaenys Targaryen Deceased | Vaemond Velaryon Deceased | |||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||| | Alyn of Hull | Addam of Hull | Laenor Velaryon1 | Rhaenyra Targaryen | Daemon Targaryen | Laena Velaryon Deceased | |||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||| | Jacaerys Velaryon | Lucerys Velaryon Deceased | Joffrey Velaryon | Baela Targaryen | Rhaena Targaryen | ||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||| 1 While Jacaerys, Lucerys, and Joffrey are officially Laenor's, he and Rhaenyra never had any biological issue. Their three sons were in fact fathered by Harwin Strong. Behind the scenes[] On October 5, 2021, HBO announced that Wil Johnson had been cast in the role of Vaemond Velaryon for House of the Dragon. His character description reads as follows: - "Younger brother to Coryls Velaryon and commander in the Velaryon navy."[9] In the books[] In Fire & Blood, Vaemond is not Corlys's brother but his nephew, the son of his unnamed younger brother. While names do repeat in dynasties, the TV version may have been condensed into simply being his younger brother instead of his nephew. There are numerous Velaryon cousins from younger branches of the family, just as in the A Song of Ice and Fire novels there were numerous minor Lannister cousins, resulting in condensations in the TV series. When Corlys suddenly fell ill with a severe fever, Vaemond immediately pressed his claim as heir to Driftmark. He openly claimed that Rhaenyra's children by Laenor are bastards, prompting Rhaenyra to send Daemon to execute him for treason. Daemon beheaded him, and his carcass was fed to Syrax. Five of his cousins, all merged into Vaemond's character in the TV series, followed in his footsteps, causing Viserys to have their tongues removed. For this, history remembers them as the "silent five." Appearances[] - – "Second of His Name" - – "We Light the Way" - – "Driftmark" - – "The Lord of the Tides" - – "The Black Queen" (mentioned) References[] - ↑ 1.0 1.1 1.2 1.3 1.4 1.5 House of the Dragon: Season 1, Episode 8: "The Lord of the Tides" (2022). - ↑ 2.0 2.1 2.2 House of the Dragon: Season 1, Episode 3: "Second of His Name" (2022). - ↑ 3.0 3.1 House of the Dragon: Season 1, Episode 10: "The Black Queen" (2022). - ↑ 4.0 4.1 4.2 House of the Dragon: Season 1, Episode 7: "Driftmark" (2022). - ↑ House of the Dragon: Season 2, Episode 2: "Rhaenyra the Cruel" (2024). - ↑ HBO Releases First Official Teaser For HOUSE OF THE DRAGON - ↑ 7.0 7.1 7.2 Vaemond Velaryon. HBO. Retrieved March 15, 2023. - ↑ House of the Dragon: Season 1, Episode 5: "We Light the Way" (2022). - ↑ Unknown author (Unknown date). House of the Dragon S1 | Character Descriptions. Warner Bros. Discovery. Retrieved April 25, 2023. Notes[] - ↑ The premise of "The Lord of the Tides" opens with "six years later." The previous episode takes place in 126 AC. External links[] - Vaemond Velaryon on A Wiki of Ice and Fire (potential spoilers for House of the Dragon) - Malentine Velaryon on A Wiki of Ice and Fire (potential spoilers for House of the Dragon) - Rhogar Velaryon on A Wiki of Ice and Fire (potential spoilers for House of the Dragon) - Silent five on A Wiki of Ice and Fire (potential spoilers for House of the Dragon) - Vaemond Velaryon on The Official Guide Head | Corlys Velaryon | Heir | Joffrey Velaryon | || Seat | High Tide, Driftmark · Castle Driftmark (historical) | Region | Crownlands | || Titles | Lord of the Tides · Master of Driftmark | |||| Ancestors | Rodrik Velaryon · Daemon Velaryon · Alyssa Velaryon · Corwyn Velaryon | |||| Members | Laenor Velaryon · Jacaerys Velaryon | |||| Deceased | Rhaenys Targaryen · Vaemond Velaryon · Laena Velaryon · Lucerys Velaryon | |||| Household | Addam of Hull · Alyn of Hull · Maester Kelvyn · Baela Targaryen | |||| Overlords | House Targaryen |


--- [‘House Of The Dragon’: Daemon Kills Vaemond In Epic Episode 8 ...] ---
House of the Dragon episode 8 begins with the reveal that Corlys Velaryon has been gravely injured and now has blood fever. His condition has his brother, Vaemond, wondering who will take the Driftwood throne. Rhaenys, who hasn’t seen her husband in 6 years, says the intention has always been for the seat to go to Luke once Corlys dies. “I am the Sea Snake’s own blood,” Vaemond tells Rhaenys, who points out that his words could be taken as treason. “I speak the truth, Rhaenys, and you know it,” he adds. Vaemond thinks that Corlys cares “only for the history books,” while he is concerned about the Velaryon line. He wants Driftmark. “The winds have shifted. The crown has good reason to take my side,” Vaemond says. Rhaenys knows Viserys would have Vaemond’s tongue for what he’s saying. Vaemond snaps that Viserys isn’t ruling these days. It’s Alicent and Otto. Over in Dragonstone, Daemon finds Syrax’s latest clutch of eggs. Baela writes from Driftmark warning him of what’s happening with Vaemond. Jace has grown up so much and is now trying to learn High Valryian. Daemon finds Rhaenyra and shows her the letter from Baela. Rhaenys is going to King’s Landing, which makes Rhaenyra worried that Rhaenys will back Vaemond. Daemon knows that won’t happen, but Rhaenyra points out that Rhaenys thinks they had Laenor killed so they could marry. She knows that Alicent and Otto are ruling in her father’s name. Daemon accompanies her to King’s Landing. When they arrive, it doesn’t feel like home. Alicent is running the small council meeting. The Driftmark situation comes up. Alicent says they’ll hear Rhaenyra out along with the others. Rhaenyra & Daemon Return To King’s Landing Rhaenyra and Daemon go to see Viserys in his chambers. At first, Daemon stays outside Viserys’ room, almost as if he’s afraid of what he’ll see. Viserys is extremely ill and looks completely unrecognizable. Rhaenyra helps her father up as Daemon comes to stand by her side. It’s difficult for Daemon to see his brother like this. They explain what’s going on with Corlys and the petition over the Driftmark throne. “You are to affirm your position for Luke,” Daemon says to Viserys. Rhaenyra introduces her father to her boys with Daemon, Aegon and Viserys. “That is a name fit for a king,” Viserys whispers about the grandson who has his name. The pain becomes too much for Viserys to bear, and he asks for his tea. Daemon takes a sniff of it and becomes alarmed by what’s in it. Meanwhile, Alicent learns that something has happened in Aegon’s chambers. There’s a terrified young serving girl named Dyana who claims that she was sexually assaulted by Aegon. Alicent says that she believes Dyana, but it doesn’t change what she has to do. Alicent gives Dyana money and moon tea to buy her silence. Alicent storms into Aegon’s room to confront him. “You are no son of mine,” Alicent spits in her son’s face. Aegon is clearly terrified of his mother. “I did not ask for this,” Aegon tells his mother about his lot in life. “I try so hard, but it will never be enough for you or father.” Rhaenyra and Daemon discuss Viserys’ condition and how he’s taken a turn for the worse. Alicent comes into Viserys’ chambers. She immediately notices Rhaenyra’s scar. They open up about their worries over Viserys’ treatment. Daemon implies that there may be ulterior motives at play. Rhaenyra Begs Her Father To Defend Her Luke and Jace tour the grounds they grew up in. Luke is scared about how this Driftmark situation is going to go down. He knows this wouldn’t be an issue if he looked more like Laenor than Harwin. Jace tells him that it doesn’t matter what other people think, only the king. Vaemond soon arrives to make his claim. He meets with Otto and Alicent. Otto says that the “threat of war looms” and advocates for Vaemond over Luke. Rhaenys makes her way to King’s Landing as well and reunites with Rhaena. Rhaenyra and Rhaenys get the chance to talk. Rhaenyra realizes that Rhaenys has come to advocate for herself. She thinks this whole situation is a trap to claim that Luke is illegitimate. Rhaenys still thinks that Rhaenyra had something to do with Laenor’s “death.” Rhaenyra remains quiet about the truth and stresses that she loved Laenor. “I did not order his death,” she says. Rhaenyra wants to make Rhaenys an offer. She wants to betroth Jace and Luke to Baela and Rhaena. Baela will eventually be Queen of the Seven Kingdoms, while Luke and Rhaena rule Driftmark. Rhaenys doesn’t want to hear Rhaenyra’s bargaining. “Tomorrow the Hightowers land their first blow. They force you to your knees, and I must stand alone,” Rhaenys says. Late in the night, Rhaenyra goes to see Viserys. She’s near tears talking to her father about The Song of Ice & Fire prophecy. She admits that by him naming her heir he divided the realm. “I thought I wanted it, but the burden is a heavy one. It’s too heavy,” Rhaenyra cries to her father. Viserys calls Rhaenyra his “only child.” Rhaenyra pleads with her father, “If you wish me to bear it, then defend me and my children.” Viserys is determined to have dinner with his entire family. He’s willing to endure grueling pain to make it happen. The king is a shell of his former self. He’s emaciated and weak. Otto wants him to drink milk of the poppy but Viserys refuses. Vaemond Attacks Rhaenyra & Daemon Retaliates Otto stands before the Iron Throne before sitting down. He’s going to be the one to hear the petitions over Driftmark. Vaemond is up first. “The true, unimpeachable blood of House Velaryon runs through my veins,” Vaemond says in front of Rhaenyra, Daemon, Luke, and everyone else. Rhaenyra quickly chimes in to defend her son, saying that Vaemond is only speaking for himself and his own ambition. Alicent snaps that Vaemond deserves to be heard, and Rhaenyra will get her turn. Vaemond turns to Rhaenyra and says that this is about the survival of his House, not hers. Rhaenyra is up next. As she is about to begin, Viserys makes a surprise appearance. Otto is stunned and immediately steps down from the Iron Throne. Viserys is wearing a gold-plated mask on the right side of his face. He makes the trek through the hall by himself, taking all the energy he has left. He looks over at Rhaenyra before saying to Otto, “I will sit the throne today.” Viserys begins to climb the stairs to the Iron Throne by himself. His crown falls off as he stumbles. Daemon is there to pick it up and helps him the rest of the way up. He places the crown back on Viserys’ head. Viserys doesn’t understand all this confusion over settled succession. The only person who can offer insight into Corlys’ condition is Rhaenys, and she steps forward to speak. Rhaenys says that it’s always been Corlys’ intention for Driftmark to pass from Leanor to his true-born son, Lucerys. “His mind never changed, nor did my support of him,” Rhaenys declares. She brings up that Rhaenyra wants to betroth Jace and Luke to Baela and Rhaena. She “heartily” agrees with this match. Viserys reaffirms that Luke is the next Lord of the Tides, but Vaemond just can’t let it go. He tells Viserys that he “broke centuries of tradition to name Rhaenyra as heir.” He refuses to allow anyone to tell him who will inherit the name Velaryon. Viserys urges Vaemond to back down. “That is no true Velaryon, and certainly no nephew of mine,” Vaemond says to Luke’s face. Viserys doesn’t sway. “Lucerys is my true-born grandson. You are no more than the second son of Driftmark,” Viserys says. Vaemond’s pride gets the best of him. He says that refuses to see his house end but doesn’t finish his sentence. Daemon tells Vaemond to finish what he wants to say. Vaemond calls Rhaenyra’s children “bastards” in front of everyone. “Her children are bastards! And she is a whore,” Vaemond spits at Rhaenyra. Viserys stands up to defend his daughter. “I will have your tongue for that,” Viserys says. Daemon decapitates Vaemond before anything else can be said. “He can keep his tongue,” Daemon declares like a true KING after killing Vaemond. Aemond looks over at Daemon like a nephew proud of his uncle. Suddenly, Viserys is overcome with great pain. He mutters that he still wants to set things right. After the drama over Driftmark, Rhaenys watches the maesters take care of Vaemond’s body. She doesn’t care about looking death straight in the face. Viserys Unites His Family… For A Short While Viserys still makes it to the family dinner. Rhaenyra is to his left, while Alicent is to his right. Viserys toasts to the betrothals of Jace and Luke to Baela and Rhaena. Aegon begins to weirdly taunt Jace about sex. Rhaena sweetly tells Luke that he’ll be a “great” Lord of the Tides. Viserys stands up in front of the family to make a speech. He knows all too well how his family has grown distant from one another. He takes off his gold-plated face plate and reveals the gruesome right side of his face. “My own face is no longer a handsome one if indeed it ever was. Tonight, I wish you to see me as I am. Not just a king but your father, your brother, your husband, and your grandsire. Who may not it seems walk for much longer among you,” he begins. “Let us no longer hold ill feelings in our hearts. The crown cannot stand strong if the House of the Dragon remains divided. Set aside your grievances. If not for the sake of the crown, but for the sake of this old man who loves you all so dearly.” This is Viserys’ last stand. Alicent is looking over at Rhaenyra, but Rhaenyra doesn’t look back. Rhaenyra stands up after her father to raise her glass to Alicent. “I love my father, but I must admit that no one has stood more loyally by his side than his good wife. She has tended to him with unfailing devotion, love, and honor. And for that, she has my gratitude and my apology,” Rhaenyra says. Alicent returns the good gesture and raises her cup to Rhaenyra. “You will make a fine queen,” Alicent tells Rhaenyra. After the toasts from the parents, Aegon continues to taunt Jace again by saying something inappropriate to Baela. Jace slams his hand against the table and stands up. Aemond rises ready for a fight. Jace takes the high road and raises his glass to Aegon and Aemond. He hopes to be friends and allies in the years to come. “To you as well,” Aegon says, knowing full well that Jace is the bigger man. Helaena, who is more than a little tipsy, toasts to Baela and Rhaena about their betrothals. “It isn’t so bad, mostly he just ignores you. Except sometimes when he’s drunk,” Helaena says. Jace gets up from the table and asks Helaena to dance. Viserys Makes A Grave Mistake In His Final Moments Viserys’ pain begins to worsen, so he’s taken from the room. Luke begins laughing, which Aemond takes as a slight at him. He stands up and toasts to his nephews. “Each of them handsome, wise, strong,” he begins before calling them “three strong boys.” A fight breaks out among the kids. Even Alicent is angry that Aemond is stirring up trouble. Daemon steps in before things go any further. He gives a huge sigh, knowing that he’s going to have his hands full with Aemond. Rhaenyra tells Alicent that it’s likely best for her family to go back to Dragonstone. She promises to see the children home and then return on dragonback. “The king and I would both like that,” Alicent says. Meanwhile, Mysaria has a new spy lurking in the Red Keep. You know she’s got eyes everywhere. After the dinner, Alicent gives Viserys more milk of the poppy. He begins murmuring about The Song of Ice & Fire prophecies and the “prince that was promised.” He’s speaking in a jumbled mess, mentioning Aegon’s name but not saying he’s talking about Aegon the Conqueror, so the full picture isn’t painted. “It is you. You are the one. You must do this,” Viserys says to Alicent thinking that she’s Rhaenyra. This changes everything. “I understand, my king,” Alicent says before leaving him. Later in the night, Viserys is whispering to himself “no more” in bed. After much fight, King Viserys dies completely alone. He dies having no idea the chaos his death is going to cause for his family that he desperately tried to unite in his final days.


--- [Should Daemon's murder of Vaemond Velaryon be considered a violation ...] ---
You've been blocked by network security. To continue, log in to your Reddit account or use your developer token If you think you've been blocked by mistake, file a ticket below and we'll look into it. Log in File a ticket


--- [House of the Dragon - S01E08 - The Lord of the Tides ...] ---
Original air date: October 9, 2022 Six years on, Corlys Velaryon, Lord of the Driftmark, is severely wounded fighting in the Stepstones. His brother, Ser Vaemond, petitions King’s Landing to name him as Corlys’ heir, proclaiming Rhaenyra’s son, Lucerys illegitimate. Rhaenyra and Daemon return to the capital to defend Lucerys’ claim. They find King Viserys bedridden, disfigured, and mentally muddled. Queen Alicent and Ser Otto Hightower oversee all royal business. Alicent covers up Prince Aegon raping a handmaiden. Rhaenyra proposes two marriage arrangements to gain Princess Rhaenys’ support. She also implores Viserys to defend her succession, quoting Aegon the Conqueror’s dream about the Prince That Was Promised. Ser Vaemond presents his petition at court. Viserys, barely ambulatory, enters the throne room and declares Lucerys the Driftmark heir. When an enraged Vaemond denounces Rhaenyra as a whore and her children bastards, Daemon beheads him. During a feast, the family appears to mend their differences. After Viserys leaves, Aemond makes a veiled insult against Rhaenyra’s three eldest sons, inciting a fight. Viserys, near death, mutters parts of Aegon the Conqueror’s dream, which Alicent believes refers to their son, Aegon. Alicent’s lady-in-waiting, Tayla, is secretly providing Daemon’s former mistress, Mysaria, with information. * * * (epic theme playing) ♪ ♪ Princess Rhaenys: It’s been near six years since I last saw my lord husband, Maester. I must know… will he live? Maester Kelvyn: He led his sailors into an ambush. A ship made to look as if it were abandoned. In the fighting, his neck was slashed by a corsair’s dagger. He fell overboard into the sea. The wound was severe. Much blood was lost. But the greater concern is the fever that followed. The ship’s maester said he burns from within. (seabirds calling) The ravens came in from? Kelvyn: Even fall, Princess. So they arrive in three days. Let all be made ready to receive him, Maester Kelvyn. The Sea Snake is strong. Vaemond Velaryon: No doubt. And yet, I have seen blood fever overcome men half his age. I will not suffer the talk of crows in my house, Vaemond. I love my brother… but we must be honest with ourselves. We may greet his ship to find him gone. And who will take the Driftwood Throne? My grandmother seems quite comfortable here. She presides only in the absence of her husband. On his death, the seat passes. To Lucerys Velaryon. As is my lord husband’s desire. I am the Sea Snake’s own blood, the closest kin he has left. Be careful, good-brother. One could take your words for treason. I speak the truth, Rhaenys. And you know it. The matter has been decided. Vaemond: By a man whose ambition has brought down on us calamity after calamity. My brother cares only for the history books. But what of the Velaryon line? Is it to be snuffed out, supplanted by the pups of House Strong? Driftmark is mine by all rights. And while I should like your support, I do not… need it. The winds have shifted. The crown has good reason… to take my side. My cousin the King would have your tongue for this. But it’s not a king who sits the Iron Throne these days, good-sister. It’s a queen. (tense music playing) (wind whistling) ♪ ♪ (footsteps approaching) ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ (hissing) ♪ ♪ (speaking High Valyrian) ♪ ♪ (indistinct chatter) Prince Jacaerys: The Conqueror and his sisters sailed with a great army. Maester Gerardys: (speaking High Valyrian) Se Blakuata Rasho dranot vilinio viartis. Jacaerys: (exhales) And landed at the Blackwater Rush. Dr a not. Jacaerys: Dr a not. Dr a not. Dr a not. At the end? The mouth. Mouth! Ah, come on, Jace, you knew that. Dr a not. Dr a not. Dr a not vilinio viartis. Dr a not. Dr a not. Come on, Jace. Perhaps that’s enough for this morning. No, no. I-I want to keep going. Maester. Guesi misenakson Aegon undas. Aegon… ordered that the trees should be… …killed. Princess Rhaenyra: Felled. It is a related word. I don’t expect you to learn High Valyrian in a day, Jace. A king should honor the traditions of his forbears. Well… unless you’re planning to depose your own mother, you have plenty of time to study. (door opens) Leave us. Joffrey… come. He means to call into question Luke’s legitimacy. And by extension Jace, and by extension my own claim to the throne. Vaemond cares only about Driftmark and the Velaryon line. Not about our politics. Has he made common cause with Otto High tower yet? Hm, this is what I fear. Rhaenys has flown to court. Surely, she cannot be planning to back him. No. Whatever disagreements we may have had, she’s not cruel… or stupid enough to do that. Disagreements? She believes we had her son killed so that we might marry. Yes… and yet, she’s taken Baela to ward. Yes. It is Laena’s memory she honors. She has no love for us. Has the vipers’ venom spread so far? Those vipers rule in my father’s name. And my father… (sighs) What choice do I have? (Rhaenyra sighs) To King’s Landing, then. (intense music playing) (birds cawing) ♪ ♪ Steffon Darklyn: All hail Rhaenyra of House Targaryen, Princess of Dragons tone and heir to the Iron Throne and her royal consort, Prince Daemon Targaryen. (bells tolling) Welcome back, Princess. Lord Caswell. I would say it’s nice to be home, but I scarcely recognize it. Prince Daemon: Mm. Lyman Beesbury: We have continued to enjoy improved customs duties since the settling of the Step stones. And the extent to which we exploit those is contingent on the harbor master’s receipts. Of which, um, uh, the, uh, septons have requested half that again for a bronze bust they wish to co… to commission for the, the Festival of the Mother, which I would not recommend. Thank you for that exhaustive accounting, Lord Beesbury. I remind you… Your guests have arrived, Your Grace. I trust they’ve been welcomed as befits their station. As you instructed, Lord Hand. Grand Maester Orwyle: It was my understanding Lord Corlys wished for his grandson Lucerys to succeed him as Lord of the Tides. The boy has been raised most of his life away from Driftmark. He can fly a dragon, yes, but can he command a fleet? Ability does not alter his claim. The Sea Snake has never formally named him as heir, if it comes to that. The crown must choose what is best for the realm. He is Laenor’s son. What grounds could there be… What indeed, Lord Beesbury. What indeed. We shall hear Princess Rhaenyra’s petition, along with those of the other claimants on the morrow. But… I do beg your pardon, my lords. I must greet our guests. Shall we levy a tax on the sale of new wool? Your Grace… a matter has arisen that requires your attention. Whatever it is, Ser Arryk, it’ll need to wait. I’m Erryk, Your Grace. Of course. My apologies, ser. It’s about the Prince. There’s been a delicate situation in his apartments. (unsettling music playing) Father? (wheezing breaths) ♪ ♪ (wheezing) (melancholy music playing) Who goes there? Rhaenyra: Father. It’s me, my King. Rhaenyra. King Viserys: Oh… Oh. I’m here with Daemon. (exhales) Daemon? Daemon? (exhales) Daemon. (Viserys wheezes) Help me up. (groaning) Oh… (labored breathing) (exhales) It has been so long. The Sea Snake has taken a grave wound in battle in the Step stones. When? We won that war years ago. No. The Triarchy is resurgent. The fighting is anew. And there is a p… There is a petition to decide upon the succession of Driftmark and the heir to the Driftwood Throne. (Viserys sighs) Viserys: Petitions? Alicent and Otto… they see to all that business now. No, brother, listen to me. You are to affirm your position for Lucerys to be Corlys Velaryon’s successor. (door opens) Has something happened to Lord Corlys? (baby babbling) Father… there’s someone we wish to introduce you to. (labored breathing) (babbling continues) (sighs) Daemon. Brother. (baby babbles) Who is that? Rhaenyra: Father… this is Aegon. Aegon. (exhales) And this… is Viserys. Ah… Viserys. Oh. (laughs) Now that is a name fit for a king. (laughing) Oh… Oh, oh… Oh, I’m sorry. Oh, I’m sorry. I-I’m sorry. (children crying) I’m so… Oh, I’m sorry. I’m sor… Please. (mouthing) My tea… My tea. What tea? This? Yes. Yes. Yes. (children crying) (groans) (breathing heavily) (Viserys sighs) (servant crying) Talya: I brought her here immediately. She’s seen no one else, Your Grace. Come here, sweetling. (crying) (door closes) Tell me your name. It’s Dyana, Your Grace. If… i-if it please you. Dyana. What a pretty name. I understand you’ve found yourself in some trouble. I was fetching the Prince his wine, and I put it on his table, and when I turned… I didn’t see him. I asked him to stop, Your Grace. I did, truly… you must believe me. (crying breaths) Shh. Thank you for telling me, Dyana. I know it wasn’t your fault. Hm? I believe you. Y-You do? I do. But what I worry about… is what others might believe. You were alone with the Prince, were you not? Yes, I… (stammers) And no one else saw what happened between the two of you. If anyone else were to hear about this… I haven’t told anyone. You told Ser Erryk and Talya and now me. And though I believe you are not to blame, others might not be so trusting. They might think you were trying to besmirch the Prince, or worse… that you’re the sort of girl that might have enticed him in the first place. And you know what happens to girls like that. I, I wouldn’t dream of breathing another word to anyone, Your Grace. I, I swear it on my life. (shuddering breaths) I know you won’t. For your troubles. (door opens, closes) The tea, Your Grace. It’s best to be certain. (Dyana gulps) Queen Alicent: Get up. (shouts) Aegon! (yells) Get up! (sighs) Mother? What is it? “What is it? What is it? What is it?” That’s all you can say for yourself? Has something happened? Dyana. Mm? Alicent: The serving girl. (exhales) Oh, for the gods’ sake. The girl, Aegon. The one you sent fleeing from your company. Prince Aegon: (stretching) Oh, it was just harmless fun. She didn’t need to go and get upset about it. Think of the shame on your wife, on me. How can you keep carrying on like this, especially on a day like today? Why? What is it today? (sniffles) You are no son of mine. I did not ask for this. I’ve done everything you’ve asked me to, and I try so… I try so hard, but it will never be enough for you or father. (door opens) Have you seen Dyana? She’s supposed to dress the children. He looks like a different person. I believe we should also consult Maester Gerardys. Perhaps if he could see the King, he’d suggest a different… Princess Rhaenyra. And Prince Daemon. Daemon: Hm. It has been so long since we were granted the joy of your presence. Indeed, Your Grace. Though not long enough to merit a greeting upon our arrival. I’m sure the Queen had pressing business, my love. What can either of us know of ruling a kingdom? I do not rule, as you well know. My father and I are mere stewards of the King’s will and wisdom. Daemon: And how exactly is that wisdom expressed… hm? In blinks and wheezes? I’d be surprised if he could remember his own name. Or if you could. King Viserys’s condition has worsened since you saw him last. Hah. It subjects him to considerable pain. On the advice of the maesters… Ah, the maesters. Of course. It is they who keep him… addled on milk of the poppy while the High towers warm his throne. Rhaenyra, if you would see him without it, almost blind with suffering. Oh, Alicent, I have no doubt it was… an act of the purest mercy, but tell me, for the King’s suffering, did the maesters also prescribe the removal of Targaryen heraldry and the installation in its stead of various statues and stars? The emblems of the Seven serve only to guide us on an uncertain path. To remind us of a higher authority. And on the morrow, which authority will sit in judgment of my son’s claim on his own inheritance? That would be mine… and the Hand’s. Daemon: Ah. But be assured, the Father is just and commands me to forget the accusations you have hurled in this room today. (swords clashing) Smaller than I remember. It looks exactly the same. Ah, Luke, come on. (knights, squires grunting) (indistinct chatter) See? I told you this would still be here. And you thought you could swing Criston’s morning star. And you almost took your own head off. What’s your problem? Everyone’s staring at us. Hyah! No one would question me being heir to Driftmark… if… if I looked more like Ser Laenor Velaryon than Ser Harwin Strong. It doesn’t matter what they think. (crowd cheering) (distant grunting) (grunting) (crowd gasps) Ooh. (sword whooshes) (yelling) (crowd applauds) Well done, my Prince. You’ll be winning tourneys in no time. I don’t give a shit about tourneys. Nephews… have you come to train? Guard: (shouts) Open the gate! (gate opening) (intense music playing) (footsteps marching) Otto High tower: Hold your nerve, my Queen. What we do, we do for the good of the realm. I must confess a certain uneasiness now this is at hand. He may yet live. But we must be prepared if he does not. The realm has enjoyed a long peace, a credit to the work of both Jaehaerys and Viserys, but the threat of war looms and may arrive on our shores. When it does, will you want a child at the command of the greatest fleet in Westeros? We must, of course… act in the interest of our subjects. The next Lord of the Tides will be deeply in your debt, Your Grace. As will Driftmark… in all its strength. (bell tolling) (thundering) Rhaena Targaryen: Grandmother? Rhaena. Baela said you might be here. She’s done well as your ward. You’ve, um… raised her admirably. You honor me, Princess. Might I speak to the Princess alone, Rhaena? Princess. I wondered for many an hour what your purpose was in coming here. Whether you’d speak for or against the suit brought by Ser Vaemond. But then, I realized… you intend to advocate for yourself. This is no fair proceeding. It is a trap set by the Queen and the Hand, I’d wager, to proclaim my son illegitimate. Yet you did worse than that with Laenor. Did you not? I loved your son. You may not believe it to be true, but I did. I did not order his death. Nor was I complicit in it. I swear this to you. I’ll make you an offer. Back Luke’s claim, and let us betroth Laena’s children to mine. Baela will be Queen of the Seven Kingdoms and her sons will be heirs to the throne. Rhaena will rule in Driftmark, and… the seat will pass to her and Lucerys’s children in time. A generous offer. (thunder rumbling) Or a desperate one. What does it matter? (soft chuckle) You are right in this, at least. It does not matter. ♪ ♪ You can bargain with me all you like. Bring my granddaughter with you to soften my resolve. But tomorrow, the High towers land their first blow. They force you to your knees… and I must stand alone. (tense music playing) (exhales) (thundering, rain falling) (lightning cracks) (Viserys breathing heavily) (softly) Alicent? Alicent… No, it’s Rhaenyra, father. (breathing heavily) Rhaenyra. (muttering) (thunder rumbling) “The Song of Ice and Fire.” Do you believe it to be true? Aegon’s Dream. You told me it was our duty to hold the realm united against a common foe. By naming me heir, you divided the realm. (Viserys breathing heavily) I thought I wanted it. But the burden is a heavy one. (softly) It’s too heavy. My… My only child. If you wish me to bear it, then defend me. And my children. (sighs) (quietly) It’s… (thundering) (Viserys murmurs) (Rhaenyra sniffles) (crying) (bells tolling) (birds chirping) (breathing heavily) I want to have supper, Otto. It is the morning, Your Grace. Tonight. The whole of my family… are gathered at the Red Keep. I want us… to dine together. (groaning) (groaning) (groaning continues) Bring milk of the poppy. (breathing heavily) (quietly) No. Just arrange the supper. (indistinct chatter) Though it is the great hope of this court that Lord Corlys Velaryon survive his wounds, we gather here with the grim task of dealing with the succession of Driftmark. As Hand, I speak with the King’s voice on this and all other matters. The crown will now hear the petitions. Ser Vaemond of House Velaryon. Vaemond: My Queen. My Lord Hand. The history of our noble houses extends beyond the Seven Kingdoms to the days of Old Valyria. For as long as House Targaryen has ruled the skies, House Velaryon has ruled the seas. When the Doom fell on Valyria, our houses became the last of their kind. Our forebearers came to this new land, knowing that were they to fail, it would mean the end to their bloodlines and their name. I have spent my entire life on Driftmark defending my brother’s seat. I am Lord Corlys’s closest kin, his own blood. The true, unimpeachable blood of House Velaryon runs through my veins. As it does in my sons, the offspring of Laenor Velaryon. If you cared so much about your house’s blood, Ser Vaemond, you would not be so bold as to supplant its rightful heir. No, you only speak for yourself and for your own ambition. You will have chance to make your own petition, Princess Rhaenyra. Do Ser Vaemond the courtesy of allowing his to be heard. What do you know of Velaryon blood, Princess? I could cut my veins and show it to you and you still wouldn’t recognize it. This is about the future and survival of my house, not yours. My Queen, my Lord Hand. This is a matter of blood, not ambition. I place the continuation of the survival of my house and my line above all. I humbly put myself before you as my brother’s successor… the Lord of Driftmark and Lord of the Tides. Thank you, Ser Vaemond. Princess Rhaenyra, you may now speak for your son, Lucerys Velaryon. If I am to grace this farce with some answer, I will start by reminding the court that nearly 20 years ago, in this very… King Viserys of House Targaryen, the First of His Name, King of the Andals, and the Rhoynar, and the First Men, Lord of the Seven Kingdoms, and Protector of the Realm. (dark, triumphant music playing) ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ (breathing heavily) I will sit the throne today. Your Grace. (groaning) I will be fine. (breathing heavily) (crown clatters) I said I’m fine. Ah… Come on. (groaning) Steady. (Viserys groans) (groaning) ♪ ♪ (breathing heavily) I must… admit… my confusion. I do not understand why petitions are being heard over a settled succession. The only one present… who might offer keener insight into Lord Corlys’s wishes is the Princess Rhaenys. Indeed, Your Grace. It was ever my husband’s will that Driftmark pass through Ser Laenor to his true born son… Lucerys Velaryon. His mind never changed. Nor did my support of him. As a matter of fact, the Princess Rhaenyra has just informed me of her desire to marry her sons Jace and Luke to Lord Corlys’s granddaughters, Baela and Rhaena. A proposal to which I heartily agree. Viserys: Well… the matter is settled. Again. I hereby reaffirm Prince Lucerys of House Velaryon as heir to Driftmark, the Driftwood Throne, and the next Lord of the Tides. (wheezing) You break law… and centuries of tradition to install your daughter as heir. Yet you dare tell me… who deserves to inherit the name Velaryon. No. I will not allow it. “Allow it”? Do not forget yourself, Vaemond. (shouts) That is no true Velaryon, and certainly no nephew of mine. Go to your chambers. You have said enough. Lucerys is my true-born grandson. And you… are no more than the second son of Driftmark. You… may run your house as you see fit… but you will not decide the future of mine. My house survived the Doom and a thousand tribulations besides. And gods be damned… I will not see it ended on the account of this… (softly) Say it. Her children… (shouts) are bastards! And she… is… a whore. (crowd gasping) (breathing heavily) I… will have your tongue for that. (all gasping) He can keep his tongue. (shouts) Disarm him! No need. (Viserys groaning) Alicent: Call the maesters! Father? (groaning) Please, my love. You must take something for the pain. I will not cloud my mind. I must put things right. (groaning) (solemn music playing) The body will be ready for its return to Driftmark on the morrow, my lady. You may wish to leave the Silent Sisters to their work. It is ill luck to look upon the face of death. The Stranger has visited me more times than I can count, Grand Maester. I assure you… he cares little whether my eyes are open or closed. ♪ ♪ (indistinct chatter) (door opens) How good it is… to see you all tonight… together. Prayer before we begin? Yes. May the Mother smile down on this gathering with love. May the Smith mend the bonds that have been broken for far too long. And to Vaemond Velaryon, may the gods give him rest. This is an occasion for celebration, it seems. My grandsons, Jace and Luke, will marry their cousins, Baela and Rhaena, further strengthening the bond between our houses. A toast to the young Princes… and their betrothed. Hear, hear! Well done, Jace. You’ll finally get to lie with a woman. Let us toast as well Prince Lucerys… the future Lord of the Tides. Hear, hear. You’ll be great. You do know how the act is done, I assume? At least in principle? Where to put your cock and all that. Let it be, cousin. You can play the jester if you wish, but hold your tongue before my betrothed. Mm-hm. (cutlery clatters) (breathing heavily) It both gladdens my heart and fills me with sorrow to see these faces around the table. The faces most dear to me in all the world… yet grown so distant from each other… in the years past. (mask thuds) My own face… is no longer a handsome one… if indeed it ever was. But tonight… I wish you to see me… as I am. Not just a king… but your father. Your brother. Your husband… and your grand sire. Who may not, it seems… walk for much longer among you. (breathing heavily) (mask clanks) Let us no longer hold ill feelings in our hearts. The crown cannot stand strong if the House of the Dragon remains divided. But set aside your grievances. If not for the sake of the crown… then for the sake of this old man who loves you all so dearly. (breathing heavily) (mask clanking) I wish to raise my cup to Her Grace, the Queen. I love my father. But I must admit that no one has stood… more loyally by his side than his good wife. (poignant music playing) She has tended to him with… unfailing devotion, love, and honor. And for that, she has my gratitude… and my apology. Your graciousness moves me deeply, Princess. ♪ ♪ We are both mothers… and we love our children. We have more in common than we sometimes allow. I raise my cup to you… and to your house. You will make a fine queen. ♪ ♪ (Prince Aegon clears throat) I, um… I regret the disappointment you are soon to suffer. But if you ever wish to know what it is to be well satisfied, all you have to do is ask. Jace. (Prince Jacaerys clears throat) To Prince Aegon and… Prince Aemond. We have not seen each other in years, but I have fond memories of our shared youth. And as men, I hope we may yet be friends and allies. To you and your family’s good health, dear uncles. To you as well. (softly) Beware the beast beneath the boards. Well done, my boy. I would like to toast to Baela and Rhaena. They’ll be married soon. It isn’t so bad. Mostly he just ignores you… except sometimes when he’s drunk. (scattered laughter) (whispers) Good. Let us have some music. (lively music playing) (indistinct chatter) Excuse me. (laughing) (laughing) (inaudible) (emotional music playing) ♪ ♪ (breathes heavily) Alicent: Guards. (Viserys groaning) Please, sit down. ♪ ♪ (pig sizzling) (chuckles) (hits table, music stops) Final tribute. To the health of my nephews: Jace… Luke… and Joffrey. Each of them handsome, wise… hm… strong. Aemond. Prince Aemond: Come… let us drain our cups to these three… Strong boys. I dare you to say that again. Why? ‘Twas only a compliment. Do you not think yourself Strong? Rhaenyra: Jace! Alicent: That is enough! (grunts) (chuckles) (grunting) Why would you say such a thing before these people? I was merely expressing how proud I am of my family, Mother. Mm, though it seems my nephews aren’t quite as proud of theirs. Daemon: Wait, wait! Rhaenyra: Go to your quarters. All of you go, now. (sighs) (footsteps retreating) Mm. Rhaenyra. It’s best, I think, if we go back to Dragons tone. You’ve only just arrived. Let me see the children home. I’ll, um… return on dragon back. The King and I would both like that. (indistinct chatter) (mysterious music playing) (dog barking) (chatter continues) It’s been quite a night at the castle, it seems. Yes, my lady. ♪ ♪ (footsteps approach) (Viserys groaning) Come on, come on. That’s it. (breathing heavily) (groans) Oh… Well done. I’m sorry. Shh. I’m sorry. Shh, shh, shh. But you wanted to know… if I believe it to be true. Believe what to be true, my King? Don’t you remember? Aegon… Our son? His Dream. The Song of Ice… and Fi… It is true. What he saw in the North. The Prince That Was Promised. I don’t understand, Viserys. (sighs) The Prince. Prince Aegon? To unite the realm against the cold… and the dark. It is you. You are the one. You must do this. (softly) You must do this. (breathing heavily) Shh, shh. (exhales deeply) (blows out candle) I understand, my King. ♪ ♪ (groaning) (softly) No more. No more. (short breaths) My love. (breathing stops) ♪ ♪
