=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Richard Serra. To Lift. 1967 | MoMA]
Richard Serra To Lift 1967 Not on view In the mid-1960s Serra began experimenting with nontraditional materials including fiberglass, neon, vulcanized rubber, and, later, lead. He combined his examination of these materials and their properties with an interest in the physical process of making sculpture.
URL: https://www.moma.org/collection/works/101902

[NYC - MoMA: Richard Serra's To Lift - Flickr]
To Lift, 1967 Vulcanized rubber, 36" x 6' 8" x 60" (91.4 x 200 x 152.4 cm). Richard Serra (American, born 1939) In the mid-1960's Serra began experimenting with nontraditional materials including fiberglass, neon, vulcanized rubber, and later, lead. He combined his examination of these materials and their properties with an interest in the physical process of making sculpture. The result was a ...
URL: https://www.flickr.com/photos/wallyg/2381934666

[To Lift (1967) by Richard Serra - Artchive]
"To Lift" is a minimalist installation artwork created by the esteemed artist Richard Serra in 1967. Embracing the principles of the Minimalism movement, this piece exemplifies simplicity and structural purity. The artwork is characterized by its large, industrial-like form, made from a sheet of vulcanized rubber. The material appears to have been manually manipulated to create an arching ...
URL: https://www.artchive.com/artwork/to-lift-richard-serra-1967/

[Richard Serra: Early Work - ARTnews.com]
Richard Serra: To Lift, 1967, vulcanized rubber, 36 by 80 by 60 inches. Courtesy David Zwirner. Richard Serra's 1967 Verb List, a manifesto of "actions to relate to oneself, material, place ...
URL: https://www.artnews.com/art-in-america/features/richard-serra-early-work-56731/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Richard Serra. To Lift. 1967 | MoMA] ---
Richard Serra To Lift 1967 - Richard Serra has 93 works online. - There are 1,678 sculptures online. If you would like to reproduce an image of a work of art in MoMA’s collection, or an image of a MoMA publication or archival material (including installation views, checklists, and press releases), please contact Art Resource (publication in North America) or Scala Archives (publication in all other geographic locations). MoMA licenses archival audio and select out of copyright film clips from our film collection. At this time, MoMA produced video cannot be licensed by MoMA/Scala. All requests to license archival audio or out of copyright film clips should be addressed to Scala Archives at [email protected]. Motion picture film stills cannot be licensed by MoMA/Scala. For access to motion picture film stills for research purposes, please contact the Film Study Center at [email protected]. For more information about film loans and our Circulating Film and Video Library, please visit https://www.moma.org/research/circulating-film. If you would like to reproduce text from a MoMA publication, please email [email protected]. If you would like to publish text from MoMA’s archival materials, please fill out this permission form and send to [email protected]. This record is a work in progress. If you have additional information or spotted an error, please send feedback to [email protected].


--- [NYC - MoMA: Richard Serra's To Lift - Flickr] ---
NYC - MoMA: Richard Serra's To Lift To Lift, 1967 Vulcanized rubber, 36" x 6' 8" x 60" (91.4 x 200 x 152.4 cm). Richard Serra (American, born 1939) In the mid-1960's Serra began experimenting with nontraditional materials including fiberglass, neon, vulcanized rubber, and later, lead. He combined his examination of these materials and their properties with an interest in the physical process of making sculpture. The result was a list of action verbs--"to roll, to crease, to curve..."--that Serra compiled, listed on paper, and then enacted with the materials he had collected in his studio. This work, made from discarded rubber recovered from a warehouse in lower Manhattan, is a result of the rubber's unique response to the artist's enacting of the action verb "to lift." Gift of the Artist * The Museum of Modern Art (MoMA) was founded in 1929 and is often recognized as the most influential museum of modern art in the world. Over the course of the next ten years, the Museum moved three times into progressively larger temporary quarters, and in 1939 finally opened the doors of its midtown home, located on 53rd Street between Fifth and Sixth Avenues in midtown. MoMA's holdings include more than 150,000 paintings, sculptures, drawings, prints, photographs, architectural models and drawings, and design objects. Highlights of the collection inlcude Vincent Van Gogh's The Starry Night, Salvador Dali's The Persisence of Memory, Pablo Picasso's Les Demoiseels d'Avignon and Three Musicians, Claude Monet's Water Lilies, Piet Mondrian's Broadway Boogie Woogie, Paul Gauguin's The Seed of the Areoi, Henri Matisse's Dance, Marc Chagall's I and the Village, Paul Cezanne's The Bather, Jackson Pollack's Number 31, 1950, and Andy Warhol's Campbell's Soup Cans. MoMA also owns approximately 22,000 films and four million film stills, and MoMA's Library and Archives, the premier research facilities of their kind in the world, hold over 300,000 books, artist books, and periodicals, and extensive individual files on more than 70,000 artists. NYC - MoMA: Richard Serra's To Lift To Lift, 1967 Vulcanized rubber, 36" x 6' 8" x 60" (91.4 x 200 x 152.4 cm). Richard Serra (American, born 1939) In the mid-1960's Serra began experimenting with nontraditional materials including fiberglass, neon, vulcanized rubber, and later, lead. He combined his examination of these materials and their properties with an interest in the physical process of making sculpture. The result was a list of action verbs--"to roll, to crease, to curve..."--that Serra compiled, listed on paper, and then enacted with the materials he had collected in his studio. This work, made from discarded rubber recovered from a warehouse in lower Manhattan, is a result of the rubber's unique response to the artist's enacting of the action verb "to lift." Gift of the Artist * The Museum of Modern Art (MoMA) was founded in 1929 and is often recognized as the most influential museum of modern art in the world. Over the course of the next ten years, the Museum moved three times into progressively larger temporary quarters, and in 1939 finally opened the doors of its midtown home, located on 53rd Street between Fifth and Sixth Avenues in midtown. MoMA's holdings include more than 150,000 paintings, sculptures, drawings, prints, photographs, architectural models and drawings, and design objects. Highlights of the collection inlcude Vincent Van Gogh's The Starry Night, Salvador Dali's The Persisence of Memory, Pablo Picasso's Les Demoiseels d'Avignon and Three Musicians, Claude Monet's Water Lilies, Piet Mondrian's Broadway Boogie Woogie, Paul Gauguin's The Seed of the Areoi, Henri Matisse's Dance, Marc Chagall's I and the Village, Paul Cezanne's The Bather, Jackson Pollack's Number 31, 1950, and Andy Warhol's Campbell's Soup Cans. MoMA also owns approximately 22,000 films and four million film stills, and MoMA's Library and Archives, the premier research facilities of their kind in the world, hold over 300,000 books, artist books, and periodicals, and extensive individual files on more than 70,000 artists.


--- [To Lift (1967) by Richard Serra - Artchive] ---
“To Lift” is a minimalist installation artwork created by the esteemed artist Richard Serra in 1967. Embracing the principles of the Minimalism movement, this piece exemplifies simplicity and structural purity. The artwork is characterized by its large, industrial-like form, made from a sheet of vulcanized rubber. The material appears to have been manually manipulated to create an arching, tent-like structure, showing subtle bends and folds. The installation sits directly on the floor of an exhibition space, encouraging viewers to perceive and interact with its spatial properties. The dark, uniform color of the rubber combined with its bold, three-dimensional form highlights the minimalist aesthetic, focusing on the art’s physical relationship with the surrounding environment.


--- [Richard Serra: Early Work - ARTnews.com] ---
Richard Serra’s 1967 Verb List, a manifesto of “actions to relate to oneself, material, place, and process,” is a stand-alone artwork. But it needs to be experienced within a show like Zwirner’s, contextualized by the sculptures Serra made early in his career that turned his words into action. It’s hard to think about infinitives like “to roll,” “to heap” and “to bend” in the same way after seeing his 6-foot-long rolled lead tubes, planks of rubber leaning against a gallery wall or delicately balanced rolled steel slabs. Richard Serra: Early Work Newswire RobbReport How This Legal Loophole Lets Collectors Bring Their Dream Cars to the U.S. WWD I Got to Experience Alexis Bittar’s Jewelry Concierge Service at One of NYC’s Chicest Hotels — Here’s Everything to Know Sportico Navy Baseball Player Accuses NCAA of Harming Active-Duty Readiness IndieWire
