=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

['Scandal' RECAP Season 3 Episode 9 'Yolo': Olivia's Mom is the ...]
Dec 6, 2013 · In episode 9 of "Scandal" Season 3, Olivia's flashbacks reveal that her father had been protecting her all this time and that her mom is the real monster - not her father.
URL: https://www.ibtimes.com.au/scandal-recap-season-3-episode-9-yolo-olivias-mom-terrorist-sally-commits-sin-1326037

[Maya Lewis | Scandal Wiki | Fandom]
Maya Lewis (Born Marie Wallace) is the wife of Eli Pope and the mother of Olivia Pope. Marie Wallace was born in East London, to parents both linked to the Marxist liberation front. When she was 16, she fell off the grid, and began popping up all over the world under many different aliases. To her contacts overseas, Maya continued to use the name Marie Wallace. She made money by selling ...
URL: https://scandal.fandom.com/wiki/Maya_Lewis

[Maya Lewis (Scandal) | The Female Villains Wiki - Fandom]
Maya Lewis Evil terrorist Maya Lewis Maya Lewis, aka Marie Wallace (Khandi Alexander), is the recurring main villainess from Season Three of Scandal. She is the mother of the series' main protagonist, Olivia Pope. Backstory For 20 years, Maya was believed to have passed on, back when Olivia was only 12 years of age. The original report had Maya as one of 329 people killed in a civilian ...
URL: https://femalevillains.fandom.com/wiki/Maya_Lewis_(Scandal)

[Scandal Recap: Season 3, Episode 15, "Mama Said Knock You Out ... - TIME]
Mar 28, 2014 · During an unwanted call from her mother, Mama Pope tells her she’d rather be a terrorist that what Olivia is — a maid, the help, “and you don’t even know it.” Even though Olivia clearly...
URL: https://time.com/41246/recap-scandal-watch-season-3-episode-15-mama-said-knock-you-out/

["Scandal" I See You (TV Episode 2016)]
Quinn tells Marcus about Olivia going to the island with Jake after she found out her mother is a terrorist and her father killed Jerry Grant. Although the ...
URL: https://m.imdb.com/title/tt5345470/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- ['Scandal' RECAP Season 3 Episode 9 'Yolo': Olivia's Mom is the ...] ---
‘Scandal’ RECAP Season 3 Episode 9 ‘Yolo’: Olivia’s Mom is the Terrorist, Sally Commits a Sin In episode 9 of "Scandal" Season 3, Olivia's flashbacks reveal that her father had been protecting her all this time and that her mom is the real monster - not her father. The episode opens with Huck putting Quinn through physical pain. Quinn says to him that she did not do anything, while Huck tells her how he enjoys dismembering a body. A call from Olivia stops him from pulling out a tooth of Quinn. Olivia tells him that her mother is alive and she is there at her apartment. Huck asks her to go with her mother to a safe-house, as Rowan will hunt them down. Before leaving to be by the side of Olivia, Huck pulls out a tooth of Quinn leaving her screaming in pain Olivia is in complete shock and is sitting on the floor in a corner. She isn't saying a word, while her gang is trying to make sense of the new development. Harrison is finding it difficult to believe that Olivia's mom is alive, the woman who was dead for 22 years. Abby thinks that Jake and Huck have something to do with it. They all want to know from Mom Pope where she is hiding till now. Mom Pope spills-out all the details about how she came to know about her husband's identity and what he does for a living. The plan was to fly over to London and raise the sirens about him but before she could do that, Rowan had captured her and had locked her inside a prison under a false alias of Omar. Since she escaped Rowan, Olivia's gang pounced on her to get out a tracking chip installed in her body, as no one escapes the command. Rowan's men reach the safe-house but only find blood on the table. Olivia and her gang disconnected their phones and put every barrier to ensure that Rowan and his men cannot find their location and that of Mom Pope. Olivia remembers the moments before her mom had left home, 22 years ago. She remembers that her mother had talked to a journalist in London before leaving. Olivia asks Mom Pope to call that journalist as he can corroborate her story so she can live a life above ground. Instead, Mom Pope intends to run till Rowan is alive. Olivia's gang discusses the countries where Mom Pope can be safe. Olivia ends the discussion by saying that they are sending her to Hong Kong. However there is a glitch, Mom Pope's name has been put on a no-flight list as FBI's most wanted criminal making fleeing out of the country impossible. Olivia says that she will find a way out because this is what she does and what she is good at. Olivia calls up President Fitz where he insists on helping her. Further into the episode, the latter calls the Pentagon. At breakfast time, Mom Pope tells her daughter that she imagined her daughter to be happy. Olivia demands to know if she looks unhappy to her. Mom Pope says that she has become more like her father and has less of her mother which she refuses to believe. A special military flight has been arranged to take Mom Pope out of the country. Abby wants Olivia to hug her mother because she might not see her again. Olivia finally breaks her indifference and calls out to her mother and hugs her. Once the flight has taken-off, Olivia gets the final flashback of getting a call after her mom had left. The call had asked for Marie and not May Pope. Olivia calls Huck to know the name of the terrorist that her father had out on the no-flight list - it is of Marie. In the end, Olivia tells Huck it is her mother who is the monster and not her father who had been protecting her from the truth all these years. Now, Huck is in a fix. Huck had arranged for the killing of Rowan. Huck had used Quinn's fear to make her the assassin while Quinn had seduced Charlie to achieve her objective. Quinn claimed that she only had Huck and now he has hurt her. Now, Quinn is left with no one. Charlie takes Quinn to Rowan's place, as he believes she will reveal the hide-out of her friends and what they are up to but Quinn has something else on her mind. Before stabbing Rowan to death, Quinn demands to have the photographs of her that would incriminate her in the murder of Omar. Cyrus is having a restless time because of the pictures he had received of James and Douglas in a compromising position. He cannot directly talk about it to James. James on the other hand is talking in sexual innuendoes while mentioning Douglas, making Cyrus believe that there is something serious going on between his husband and Vice President's husband. He demands to know whether James is having sex with Douglas. James demands a divorce as Cyrus has destroyed the marriage by pimping his husband, treating him like a whore. The Jesus fearing vice president decides to take the pro-choice line, picking up politics over God. She tells Fitz that she is going to stand-up against him as an independent Presidential candidate. Fitz tells her that she will regret her decision for the rest of her life. Later, Fitz screams at Cyrus for not containing the situation and doing nothing enough to stop Sally. Cyrus has a breakdown while Mellie tells him that he will soon be fine. Cyrus shows the photographs of Douglas and James to Sally to make her back-off. Sally tells him that he is not going to publish them, as he would like to protect James and his marriage. Cyrus calls up James to say that he is sorry. As for Sally, Sally calls Cyrus to tell him that she has committed a sin - she has killed her gay husband.


--- [Maya Lewis | Scandal Wiki | Fandom] ---
| “ | Girl, you need to move on, you’re just like him. | ” | Maya Lewis (Born Marie Wallace) is the wife of Eli Pope and the mother of Olivia Pope. Early Life Marie Wallace was born in East London, to parents both linked to the Marxist liberation front. When she was 16, she fell off the grid, and began popping up all over the world under many different aliases. To her contacts overseas, Maya continued to use the name Marie Wallace. She made money by selling government secrets. In 1972, she went to the United States, under the name Maya Lewis, where she soon met Eli Pope, from whom she then began stealing C.I.A. classified documents, among others, for anti-American groups. Eventually, she married Eli and had Olivia. Apparently, Maya, with enough knowledge about B613, was planning on returning to London, when Eli found out about her. She was taken off her plane, under the name Omar Dresden, and questioned. She told Eli that the plane she was on, which had just taken off, had a bomb on it. In a panicked move, Eli had Fitz Grant shoot down the plane, killing 329 innocent people, realizing too late that Maya lied about there being a bomb. Eli then imprisoned Maya. For 22 years, the world and Olivia was led to believe that she was dead. Season Two Huck came across some interesting information about the flight Maya was on when she died. At the time he was working with Jake Ballard and they put two and two together, concluding that it was a conspiracy. They took this information to Olivia who was then left stunned. It was discovered that President Fitzgerald Grant was flying a navy plane nearby when the plane went down. The conclusion Huck & Jake came to was that the pilot shot down the passenger aircraft purposely. Fitz has neither confirmed nor denied all of this to Olivia; under the National Security Act. Olivia was twelve-years-old when she died. A trauma that still stays with her to the present day. (More Cattle, Less Bull / Icarus) Season Three As Rowan is about to move her to another prison because their daughter - Olivia - is asking too many questions about Maya's death; she demands that she get to see Olivia before she is moved. When she realizes Rowan is not going to let her see her daughter she bites her own wrist so she can get out of her cell and into the infirmary, from there she knocks a doctor out with the very sedative he was going to inject her with so she could travel. Maya escapes the prison and surprises her daughter by showing up at her apartment. (Everything's Coming Up Mellie / Vermont is for Lovers, Too) After stopping by Olivia's apartment, Olivia and her team try to find a place for her to hide. They decide to send her to Hong Kong. As the plane is taxiing away, Olivia has a flashback to her childhood where she remembers a phone call asking for "Marie", the name on the no fly list. Olivia realizes her mother is Marie, and her father hadn't fabricated the list of crimes on the no fly list. (YOLO) Maya never made it to Hong Kong, she killed the flight crew and returned to D.C. Aware that Olivia, OPA and the government are looking for her she stays in hiding. But she couldn't resist to call her daughter. Maya tells Olivia everything will be alright and tosses her burner phone as she walks past 1600 Pennsylvania Ave... The White House. After President Grant's donor dinner with his new running mate, Governor Andrew Nichols Maya is waiting in a hotel room when Adnan Salif walks in the room. It appears Maya is working with Adnan. In the Fluffer it is revealed that Maya is plotting to kill the president by planting a bomb at a Senator's funeral. We also find out that Maya only truly ever loved Dominic Bell. Maya get's captured by Eli. Season Four After Olivia's abduction, Jake, Huck, Quinn and David contact Maya in prison, because they need an access code to the Dark Net Auction Olivia is being sold on. She helps them in exchange for a flat screen TV in her prison cell. She contacts a former terrorist lover, who, after making Huck kill a few of his enemies, gives them access to the auction. Olivia visits Maya in prison after her father has the Grand Jury for the B613-Case killed. She wants advice on how to win against Rowan, since Maya played him for almost 20 years. Against her expectations, Olivia hears from Maya that Rowan's one weakness is that no one knows about B613, not even the head of the CIA. After that plan fails, Cyrus Beene contacts her, and they negotiate a deal, in which she goes free if she denies every proof that B613 ever existed. Season Six Season Seven Eli Pope Dominic Bell Gallery - → See and enjoy 38 pictures of Maya Lewis at Images of Maya Lewis.


--- [Maya Lewis (Scandal) | The Female Villains Wiki - Fandom] ---
Maya Lewis, aka Marie Wallace (Khandi Alexander), is the recurring main villainess from Season Three of Scandal. She is the mother of the series' main protagonist, Olivia Pope. Backstory[] For 20 years, Maya was believed to have passed on, back when Olivia was only 12 years of age. The original report had Maya as one of 329 people killed in a civilian aircraft in Iceland, with Fitz Grant shooting down the plane under the orders of Olivia's father, Rowan "Eli" Pope, as part of a military action code known as "Operation Remington." The shooting was done due to Maya claiming that a bomb was on the plane. Season Three[] In actuality, Maya was very much alive and was held prisoner for 20 years by Rowan, with her first official appearance coming in episode 3.07, "Everything's Coming Up Mellie." After many demands to see Olivia, Maya escaped and appeared to her daughter for the first time in the series two episode later in "YOLO," as she was seeing protection from Rowan, who put Maya on the FBI's most wanted list. Fitz, now the President of the United States, helped capture Rowan and held him until Maya escaped safely, with Olivia helping her mother get to a plane that was heading to Hong Kong. However, the final scenes of the episode had Olivia remembering that on the day of her mother's supposed passing, she remembered someone calling looking for Marie Wallace, which was the name that Rowan used to label Maya as a terrorist. With that, Olivia began to realized that her mother was indeed a terrorist, and that her father was attempting to protect Olivia by hiding the truth about her. Not only that, the following episode, "A Door Marked Exit," revealed that Maya had lied about the bomb on the plane, as she had intentionally tricked her husband into having the plane shot down. Realizing that Maya was directly responsible for the deaths of 329 innocent civilians, Olivia informed Fitz to have her mother arrested. However, Maya had killed the pilots on the plane, and was at large. Beginning with the episode, "We Do Not Touch the First Ladies," the evil Maya began working with Adnan Salif in a plot to kill Fitz, which included enlisting a bomber as part of their scheme. The crazed villainess murdered a pair of prospects before settling on notorious anarchist Ivan Yushkin, while also giving various warnings to Olivia to stay out of her business. They had their bomb by the events of the episode, "The Fluffer," but as part of their plan, Maya murdered Senator Humphrey, which led to a funeral and opportunity, as Fitz would be giving the eulogy. After Dominic Bell was captured by Rowan in the following episode, ", more of Maya's past was revealed, as Dominic and Maya were collaborators in the past, as well as lovers; in fact, it was Dominic who enlisted Maya to marry Rowan to gain information from him. Maya was informed about Dominic's capture by Rowan himself, who demanded the location of the bomb under the threat of killing Dominic. The villainess callous refused; even saying "goodbye" to Dominic shortly before Rowan killed him. The episode ended with Maya confronting her estranged husband and later stabbing him (Rowan survived), and she later activated the bomb, which was at the church. The bomb went off in the season finale, "The Price of Free and Fair Elections," but Fitz (among others) were saved when Jake had the funeral evacuated. Maya was eventually captured and arrested after being caught making a withdrawal, with the final scenes revealing that she was in the same exact hole where Huck was once held captive.


--- [Scandal Recap: Season 3, Episode 15, "Mama Said Knock You Out ... - TIME] ---
When the preview for this week’s episode first aired, many viewers realized that they had completely forgotten that Mellie and Fitz actually had kids. Sure we’ve seen baby Teddy bouncing around the White House when plotlines have necessitated he get used to either a) show Fitz has a soul or b) be a tool in an epic power struggle … but where on earth have Karen and Jerry been hiding for the last three seasons? Oooh yes, conveniently hidden away at “boarding school.” So this week the kids were herded in to get screen time (and maybe one-on-one time with their parents) for an expected reason: a live TV interview with a hot shot journalist to help the campaign. Because what’s the point of family if you can’t exclusively use them for political capital? Meet the Spawn Karen does theater in school and gets straight A’s. Jerry works on the school paper and plays lacrosse, “because that’s what rich people do.” No these factoids don’t come out of Fitz’ mouth — the guy could barely remember their names let alone school activities — but Abby’s dossier on the First Family. Liv is afraid that what “might be the most important interview of the campaign” is in jeopardy because the kids seem distant. (The West Wing can be intimidating your first time around!) Beyond awkward dinner table conversations in which the kids looked sad whenever their dad tried to sound interested, the Fitz family reunion is in jeopardy for other reasons, too. Liv finds out that Jerry has an anti-Fitz Twitter handle and a Reston for President tee-shirt — maybe he was going to protest during the interview? And when Karen storms away from her dad and brother’s fight, she runs into her mom’s room to find her “on [her] knees with Uncle Andrew… this whole time I blamed Dad when you were the liar and cheater.” Harsh but, come on Mellie, maybe when your angsty daughter is in town you should lock the door. “I’m Talking to my Wife” Fitz and Mellie try to fake loving each other to con the kids, but after the children tell the prez about the latest sex scandal, Fitz punches “Uncle Andrew” in the face and releases all of his anger on Mellie. We learn that after Jerry’s birth, Mellie said that she lost her sexual appetite. (Really, she was traumatized from the rape, but Fitz thinks she was rebuffing him for 10 years because she was doing it with Andrew.) Mellie says he can’t blame her for cheating now, but Fitz says whereas before he was understanding over the fact that “Poor Mellie has dried up” — oh yes, very understanding husband — he’s now “saying that you ruined our marriage.. all you’ve done is deny me love and scheme to have power.” If not for her, he never would have cheated and furthermore, “Those kids never had a chance to grow up with two loving parents.” Oh yes, Fitz, blame Mellie for your inability to relate to your kids. It looks like Mellie is close to admitting that she was raped by his father when Olivia, who heard it all, tells them it’s almost time for the interview she keeps trying to postpone due to the turmoil. “I’m talking to my wife,” Fitz snaps. In the end, per Olivia’s suggestion, he makes nice so that they can be presentable. This man totally deserves the vote. Is Olivia… the Help? Olivia, unfortunately, might be the Alice in this Brady Bunch. But with better trench coats and bone structure. During an unwanted call from her mother, Mama Pope tells her she’d rather be a terrorist that what Olivia is — a maid, the help, “and you don’t even know it.” Even though Olivia clearly isn’t a new wave The Butler, she fears her mom is right. And when she asks Cyrus — to whom Fitz said Jake killed James, still expecting them to work together with that knowledge — whether this is true, he says yes. But it’s for the good of the country. (Why is Fitz good for the country again?) The Oddest Couple As much as I hate to give Quinn space, her role was actually pretty juicy this episode. She and creepy Charlie have a series of inane conversations pouring over the details of Huck’s break-in to Quinn’s apartment last week to make out with her. (But Quinn isn’t telling that.) I have to hand it to them, it was pretty funny to see them calmly spat as they removed a Ukrainian potential terrorist from the trunk and later drilled holes into his body for torture’s sake. Quinn later takes a meeting with Huck to show him he isn’t the boss — and there’s a bunch of talk about tongues licking cheeks, tongues in mouths, and then there are tongues on cheeks and mouths… ew. When she comes home from whatever the hell that was (again, ew) she finds Charlie has moved in to “protect” her / control her life—because he’s a creep. Terrorists on the Loose Ukranian terrorists are missing (one was captured and tortured by Quinn), and the U.S. government wants to find them. The only thing is that when Fitz asks Jake to give them up, he refuses. Fitz might be the Commander-in-Chief but according to Jake, “I am command, which means you don’t tell me to do anything because I am not your bitch… You comfort people, and you look pretty…and you talk tough.” One of the Ukranian terrorists is with B613, though. Quinn is currently torturing him (discussion question: which hurts more, the drill or the speaking?) Mama Pope and Adnan, kind of scared, are also in search of them for their plot. Adnan makes it look like she’s going to leave and betray her to Olivia’s firm, but she just ends up sleeping with Harrison, stabbing him in the back with a shot, and then stealing Liv’s computer chip with information about all of Fitz’ campaign stops. B613 Takedown The Gladiators appear to have no real clients anymore, which is kind of convenient since they’re dedicating their time to taking down B613. At first Olivia’s dad calls to get her to stop hunting for the organization. But after Ronan has a contest with Jake over power, and Jake promises to kill him, he changes his tune. At the end of the episode, Ronan calls Olivia to give her B613 destruction advice. What a powerhouse they’d be.


--- ["Scandal" I See You (TV Episode 2016)] ---
No content
