=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Government House, Jersey - Wikipedia]
Government House, in St. Saviour, Jersey In 1803, the rector of St Saviour's Church, Rev. Philip Le Breton, bought the land on which the current Government House is situated and built a family home. This was bought by the ship owner François Janvrin in 1814 who demolished the house and built a small two-storey villa, naming the house Belmont.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Government_House,_Jersey

[History of Government House – Government House]
History of Government House History of the ownership Government House is located on St Saviour's Hill. It is built on land which was bought by the Reverend Philip Le Breton in 1803 (Rector of St Saviour's Church) who built a house on the site. In 1814, Francis Janvrin, a prosperous ship owner, bought the property from the Rector and ...
URL: https://governmenthouse.gov.je/governmenthouse/

[Government House - Jerripedia]
The Lieut-Governor 's official residence is Government House in St Saviour. The house was originally known as Belmont and was acquired in 1821. The previous Government House was on the corner of King Street and Halkett Place, and before that, at the time of the Battle of Jersey in 1781, it was at Manoir de la Motte.
URL: https://www.jerripedia.org/index.php/Government_House

[History of Government House - Lieutenant-Governor of Jersey]
In 1814, Francis Janvrin, a prosperous ship owner, bought the property from the Rector and demolished it. He then built the present Government House on the site and called it Belmont. In 1822, the Lieutenant-Governor Major General Sir Colin Halkett acquired the house.
URL: https://www.governmenthouse.gov.je/governmenthouse/

[#What+is+the+name+of+the+man+who+purchased+Belmont+on+St.+Saviour's ...]
What+is+the+name+of+the+man+who+purchased+Belmont+on+St.+Saviour's+Hill,+Jersey,+UK,+in+1822? 0 drawings on pixiv, Japan. on pixiv. pixiv is a social media platform where users can upload their works (illustrations, manga and novels) and receive much support.
URL: https://www.pixiv.net/en/tags/What%2Bis%2Bthe%2Bname%2Bof%2Bthe%2Bman%2Bwho%2Bpurchased%2BBelmont%2Bon%2BSt.%2BSaviour%27s%2BHill%2C%2BJersey%2C%2BUK%2C%2Bin%2B1822%3F


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Government House, Jersey - Wikipedia] ---
Government House is the official residence of the lieutenant governor of Jersey. The building is situated in the parish of St Saviour in Jersey. It is also used for ceremonial functions, receptions and meetings with visiting foreign dignitaries and heads of state. It is also the official residence of the Duke of Normandy (currently King Charles III) as head of state when staying in Jersey.


--- [History of Government House – Government House] ---
History of the ownership Government House is located on St Saviour’s Hill. It is built on land which was bought by the Reverend Philip Le Breton in 1803 (Rector of St Saviour’s Church) who built a house on the site. In 1814, Francis Janvrin, a prosperous ship owner, bought the property from the Rector and demolished it. He then built the present Government House on the site and called it Belmont. In 1822, the Lieutenant-Governor Major General Sir Colin Halkett acquired the house. He was unhappy with the one he lived in, which was in King Street where the New Look shop (previously Woolworths) stands today. He thought that the Lieutenant-Governor “would at Belmont possess the desirable opportunity of seeing together, without apparent partiality, such of the inhabitants, and strangers, as naturally expected to be invited to Government House”. During World War II, the house was occupied by the Germans and General von Schmettow lived there as Commandant. The butler and his wife remained and it was largely due to them that the property remained intact. Government House today Today, Government House remains the residence of the Lieutenant-Governor and his wife. They entertain over 3,000 guests each year at functions in the house and grounds. Royalty and other important official visitors stay at Government House during their visits to Jersey. The last time Their Majesties King Charles III and Queen Camilla stayed was July 2024 when they were on a 2-day visit to the Channel Islands, carrying out engagements in Jersey on Monday and then onto Guernsey on Tuesday. Changes to the building There have been many changes to Government House over the years. An engraving by P J Ouless dated around 1820 shows a symmetrical villa. There was a porch to the east, but not the present porte cochère. There were 2 storeys, a rather flat roof, and no dormers. A third storey was added at some point before 1894. Although the third storey added to the size of the house, it did not really fit in with the previous building design. On the site of the existing stable block, which has now been converted into cottages, there was another house which became absorbed into the property. The round arch leading into the present kitchen garden may be the only remaining feature of this.


--- [Government House - Jerripedia] ---
Government House Historic Jersey buildings Government House levee in 1938 If you own this property, have ancestors who lived here, or can provide any further information and photographs, please contact us through editorial@jerripedia.org | The Lieut-Governor's official residence is Government House in St Saviour. The house was originally known as Belmont and was acquired in 1821. The previous Government House was on the corner of King Street and Halkett Place, and before that, at the time of the Battle of Jersey in 1781, it was at Manoir de la Motte. There is also a "Governor's House" at Elizabeth Castle, dating from its use by Sir Walter Raleigh, who built the castle. The House is used for a wide range of official functions, and once a year on the eve of the Queen's official birthday, all Islanders are invited to celebrate the occasion at a Government House levée. History From the website of the Office of the Lieut-Governor Government House stands on St Saviour’s Hill. It is built on land which was bought by the Reverend Philip Le Breton in 1803 (Rector of St Saviour’s Church) who built a house on the site. In 1814 Francis Janvrin, a prosperous ship owner, bought the property from the Rector and demolished it. He then built the present Government House on the site and called it Belmont. In 1822 the Lieutenant-Governor Major General Sir Colin Halkett acquired the house. He was unhappy with the one he lived in, which was in King Street where the New Look (previously Woolworths) shop stands today. He thought that the Lieutenant-Governor “would at Belmont possess the desirable opportunity of seeing together, without apparent partiality, such of the inhabitants, and strangers, as naturally expected to be invited to Government House”. During World War II, the house was occupied by the Germans and General von Schmettow lived there as Commandant. The butler and his wife remained and it was largely due to them that the property remained intact. Extra storey added An engraving by P J Ouless of about 1820 shows a symmetrical villa. There was a porch to the east, but not the present porte cochère. There were two storeys, with a rather flat roof, and no dormers. A third storey was added at some point before 1894. Although the third storey added to the size of the house, it did not really fit in with the previous building design. On the site of the existing stable block, which has now been converted into cottages, there was another house which became absorbed into the property. The round arch leading into the present kitchen garden may be the only remaining feature of this. Gardens The drive was previously a public lane to St Saviour’s Church. It was purchased by General Robertson in 1810 on the condition that it was not closed to the public until the new military road (now St Saviour’s Hill) was completed. The 12 acre grounds include a variety of landscapes, gardens and features, such as: - Formal garden - Woodland valley - Walled kitchen garden - 2 small lakes - 2 large rose beds - Herbaceous and shrub borders - Extensive lawns The largest lake, clearly visible from St Saviour’s Hill, was created in 2009. Large receptions and other events are held in marquees on the lawns. Around the grounds there are trees planted by Royal visitors and former Lieut-Governors, and a variety of commemorative monuments. The 13 metre wooden flagpole flies the Lieutenant-Governor’s flag when he is in the Island. The estate is defended by 4 cannons on the bluff overlooking the town. The cannons were made in the early 19th Century. They are naval 64 pounder muzzle loaders converted from 8 inch smooth bore to rifled barrels. Government House today Today Government House remains as the residence of the Lieutenant-Governor and his wife. They entertain over 3,000 guests each year at functions in the house and grounds. Royalty and other important official visitors stay at Government House during their visits to Jersey. The last time HM The Queen stayed was in 2005 for the 60th Anniversary of Liberation. Art collection Government House has a selection of pictures from the Jersey Heritage collection, which are featured in the Your Paintings project. Click on any image to see a full-size version - Departure of Queen Victoria, 1846; Philip Ouless - Old Peasant Lady with a wicker basket; John St Helier Lander - St Aubin's Fort by moonlight, 1948; Archibald Francis Stewart - Shore Scene with figures, Man o' war and rowing boat, 1700; Peter Monamy - St Brelade's Church and Fisherman's Chapel; Hortense Mattice Gordon - Old mill Sussex; Francis Le Maistre - Wooded lane with figures, 1940; Francis Le Maistre - View towards Fort Regent; Francis Le Maistre - Bruges canal bridge; Francis Le Maistre - Shipping scene with a laden man o' war; Peter Monamy - Squadron at sea; Peter Monamy - Old Quay showing the London Hotel, 1832; John Montiton - Coastal scene with fishing boats and martello tower, 1877; John Wright Oakes - Visit of Queen Victoria and Prince Albert, 1846; Philip Ouless - Wild Wave, 1850 - Le Hocq Tower, 1840; William Clarkson Stanfield - Sir Amyas Paulett - Mont au Pretre; John W Williams - Encore of Jersey, 1844 - Fort Regent off a coast, 1864 - No 3 Pilot Boat off Corbiere, 1870 - St Brelade's Bay, 1866; John Vivien de Fleury - Wreck of the Caroline, 1870; French School - Cider Press, 1898; Richard Goldie Crawford - Gorey Jetty; Annie French - Lady Otway, 1904; John St Helier Lander - Rocky Coast; Francis Le Maistre - Vraic Gathering at Corbiere; John Le Capelain Gallery Click on any image to see a larger version - Government House in 1909 - The entrance to Government House used to be guarded by garrison soldiers - The Government House guard detachment in 1910 - Soldiers guard the entrance to Government House - Government House in 1905 - The lounge of Government House in the 1910s - A Government house garden party in about 1910 - A tinted postcard of the entry guard - A garden party in the 1900s - Another 1900s garden party - The guarded gatehouse in 1932 - A 1900s garden party - The interior of Government House before 1910 - The tunnel under Government House - Government House staff in the early 1930s - A 1914 levee - Photograph by Percival Dunham in 1914 - 1904 levee - 1937 levee - On guard in 1908 - The Jersey Drag Hunt at Government House in 1911 - Lieut-Governor Hugh Sutley Gough at Government House with the Dean between 1904 and 1910 - The guns, 1905 - 1960s levee - 1960s levee - RSM Frank Mustow, of the Victoria College CCF, and Lieut-Governor Vice-Admiral Sir Michael Villiers - Lord Coutanche and Lady Villiers in the 1960s - A group of pupils from St Martin's School visits in 1946 - LL postcard - LL postcard - A photograph taken in the 1860s by Henry Mullins - Police parade at Government House, photographed by Percival Dunham - A 1937 levee - A 1947 levee - Field Marshal Bernard Montgomery at Government House in 1947 - 1947 - 1909 - 1956 - Guests await their turn to enter the house for a 1936 levee - 1937 King's birthday levee - 1937 - During the German Occupation


--- [History of Government House - Lieutenant-Governor of Jersey] ---
History of the ownership Government House is located on St Saviour’s Hill. It is built on land which was bought by the Reverend Philip Le Breton in 1803 (Rector of St Saviour’s Church) who built a house on the site. In 1814, Francis Janvrin, a prosperous ship owner, bought the property from the Rector and demolished it. He then built the present Government House on the site and called it Belmont. In 1822, the Lieutenant-Governor Major General Sir Colin Halkett acquired the house. He was unhappy with the one he lived in, which was in King Street where the New Look shop (previously Woolworths) stands today. He thought that the Lieutenant-Governor “would at Belmont possess the desirable opportunity of seeing together, without apparent partiality, such of the inhabitants, and strangers, as naturally expected to be invited to Government House”. During World War II, the house was occupied by the Germans and General von Schmettow lived there as Commandant. The butler and his wife remained and it was largely due to them that the property remained intact. Government House today Today, Government House remains the residence of the Lieutenant-Governor and his wife. They entertain over 3,000 guests each year at functions in the house and grounds. Royalty and other important official visitors stay at Government House during their visits to Jersey. The last time Their Majesties King Charles III and Queen Camilla stayed was July 2024 when they were on a 2-day visit to the Channel Islands, carrying out engagements in Jersey on Monday and then onto Guernsey on Tuesday. Changes to the building There have been many changes to Government House over the years. An engraving by P J Ouless dated around 1820 shows a symmetrical villa. There was a porch to the east, but not the present porte cochère. There were 2 storeys, a rather flat roof, and no dormers. A third storey was added at some point before 1894. Although the third storey added to the size of the house, it did not really fit in with the previous building design. On the site of the existing stable block, which has now been converted into cottages, there was another house which became absorbed into the property. The round arch leading into the present kitchen garden may be the only remaining feature of this.


--- [#What+is+the+name+of+the+man+who+purchased+Belmont+on+St.+Saviour's ...] ---
No content
