=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Wolfram|Alpha (music albums | with | music work | The Last Unicorn (music work) and | type | soundtrack and | music work | The 11th (music work))]
Result: (data not available)
URL: https://www.wolframalpha.com/input/?i=What+is+the+name+of+the+11th+song+on+%22The+Last+Unicorn%22+soundtrack+album%3F

[America discography]
"The Last Unicorn", —, —, —, —, —, 38, —, —, —, —, —, "Man's Road", The Last Unicorn (soundtrack). "Special Girl", 106, 15, —, 7, —, —, —, —, —, —, —, " ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/America_discography

[Songs? : r/SuicideBereavement]
The Last Unicorn, by America. 2nd verse below, but the Chorus is ... A song called ' Kissing you ' by Des'ree. About missing someone ...
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/SuicideBereavement/comments/17yz08l/songs/

[May22Salon — DMQ Review]
“Eve, Alone" is a part of a poem sequence called “Parable of the Bull," with an epigraph from Peter S. Beagle's The Last Unicorn: “They passed down all the ...
URL: https://www.dmqreview.com/may22salon?rq=gander

[Apr | 2019 - Byron's Muse - WordPress.com]
Apr 30, 2019 — “I'm always dreaming, even when I'm awake; it is never finished.” (Peter Beagle, The Last Unicorn) ... Song “Downbound Train” really makes ...
URL: https://byronsmuse.wordpress.com/2019/04/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Wolfram|Alpha (music albums | with | music work | The Last Unicorn (music work) and | type | soundtrack and | music work | The 11th (music work))] ---
No content


--- [America discography] ---
America is an American rock group that has released 23 studio albums, 14 live albums and 23 compilation albums. They have also issued 47 singles, including two Billboard Hot 100 and three Adult Contemporary number ones.
America's best-known song is their 1972 debut single, "A Horse with No Name". It was the lead-off single to their self-titled debut album and became their first number one on the Billboard Hot 100. The song was also a Top 5 hit in the United Kingdom reaching number three on the UK Singles Chart. Throughout the 1970s and 1980s, America had charted eleven Top 40 singles in the United States. However, in the 1990s, their popularity began to fade. They have not had a Billboard-charted single in the United States since 1984, though "Young Moon" charted in Germany in 1994, peaking at number 59 on the country's Media Control Charts along with hitting #33 on the Radio & Records AC Airplay Top 40 charts.  Additionally, in 1998, "From a Moving Train" charted on the Radio & Records AC Airplay Top 40 chart for six weeks and peaked at number 25, along with being #84 for the year.  "Winter Wonderland" peaked on the same chart at number 26 in 2002.


--- [Songs? : r/SuicideBereavement] ---
You've been blocked by network security. To continue, log in to your Reddit account or use your developer token If you think you've been blocked by mistake, file a ticket below and we'll look into it. Log in File a ticket


--- [May22Salon — DMQ Review] ---
the dmq virtual Salon poets read from their new Books Begun during the pandemic shut-downs, our monthly reading series continues to support recent poetry book releases. We’re proud to present the May 2022 DMQ Virtual Salon. Enjoy these readings, then go buy their books! ~scroll down for previous readings~ todd davis Coffin Honey Michigan State University Press, 2022 $19.95 Playlist: In Coffin Honey, Todd Davis explores the many violences we do to each other and to the other living beings with whom we share the planet. Here racism, climate collapse, and pandemic are dramatized in intimate portraits of Rust-Belt Appalachia: a young boy who has been sexually assaulted struggles with dreams of revenge and the possible solace that nature might provide; a girl whose boyfriend has enlisted in the military faces pregnancy alone; and a bear named “Ursus” navigates the fecundity of the forest after his own mother’s death, literally crashing into the encroaching human world. lisa dordal Water Lessons Black Lawrence Press, 2022 $16.95 Playlist: Water Lessons addresses multiple dimensions of grief arising from my mother’s alcoholism and eventual death, my father’s deepening dementia, and my own childlessness. Against the backdrop of these personal griefs, I scrutinize the patriarchal underpinnings of the world I grew up in as well as my complicity in systemic racism as a white girl growing up in the 70’s and 80’s. Poems read: “My Mother Is a Peaceful Ghost” “Grief” “Daughter Poem” “I Love” former DMQ Review Contributor Jennifer martelli The Queen of Queens Bordighera Press, 2022 $18 Playlist: Just after I graduated from college in 1984, Geraldine Ferraro was nominated to the vice presidency. The Reagan administration was reveling in its greed and cruelty; the AIDS epidemic was being ignored; people were needlessly dying. When I started writing The Queen of Queens, we had not yet been plunged into a pandemic, which would be ignored by another feckless administration, nor had Kamala Harris been nominated to the vice presidency (this is the good news). If I were to give The Queen of Queens a shape, it would be circular, like the pearls Geraldine Ferraro wore at her nomination. former DMQ Review Contributor previous virtual salon readings April 2022 DMQ Virtual Salon Daniel biegelson of being neighbors Ricochet Editions, 2021 $15.00 Playlist: “The sheer velocity of the collection of being neighbors made me feel like I was riding a kayak on a tsunami. These poems charge forward, asking big questions and taking enormous risks, bringing together the ecstatic and the intimate, while remaining grounded in erudition and ethics. The book wants to know how to live in human community, how to commune with neighbors, how to return to the commons that have been privatized out of existence. It continuously opens up onto inquiry, rather than arriving at answers, and yet it is precisely the guide I need now.” — Jason Schneiderman Caroline Goodwin Matanuska Aquifer Press, 2022 $20 Playlist: John Goodby writes, “This is a delicious, disturbing, and deliciously disturbing poetic sequence, that takes its name from the Matanuska River in south-central Alaska where Caroline Goodwin spent her childhood. Matanuska eschews sentimentality even as it champions sentiment, its melee of different threads encouraging the reader to work for sense (and senses) while relishing its sonic and paratactical dance, a dance with is often mesmerizing. It is precisely in not pulling its punches and in refusing to wallow in doom or bien-pensant piety that Caroline Goodwin manages to create the space for poetic invention.” Jan LaPerle Maybe The Land Sings Back Galileo Books, 2022 $16.42 Playlist: These poems, some written in east Tennessee before moving to Kentucky in 2018, document the joy and pain of marriage and motherhood, separation and reconciliation, cancer, work-life (most of which was on active duty for the U.S. Army) and the domestic. Poems read: “This Thing Like That” “Shiloh” “Little Weeping Day With Trees Inside” March 2022 DMQ Virtual Salon jon davis Above the Bejeweled City Grid Books, 2021 $16.00 Playlist: “The Ghost of Denis Johnson” “Above the Bejeweled City” For this reading, I decided to read two poems. I have no idea—beyond being in the grip of the pandemic—why I dreamed these particular dreams. Perhaps my obsessive reading of Federico Garcia Lorca’s “Romance Sonambulo” informed the dreams. In both cases, I woke and scribbled notes, then went straight to the computer in the morning. Because writing a poem is like dreaming, I’m not sure, now, how much was dream, how much imagination. I should say something more about “The Ghost of Denis Johnson.” I first met Denis in 1983 in Montana, and we remained friends until the end. susan nguyen Dear Diaspora University of Nebraska Press, 2021 $17.95 Playlist: Winner of the Raz/Shumaker Prairie Schooner Book Prize in Poetry, Dear Diaspora introduces us to Suzi: ripping her leg hairs out with duct tape, praying for ecstasy during Sunday mass, dreaming up a language for buried familial trauma and discovering that such a language may not exist. Suzi, caught between enjoying a rundown American adolescence and living with the inheritances of war, attempts to unravel her own inherited grief as she explores the multiplicities of identity and selfhood against the backdrop of the Vietnamese diaspora. Poems read: “Letter to the Diaspora" “Wish List" “Suzi Searches for Ecstasy" “Letter to the Diaspora" “Unending" julia wendell The Art of Falling FutureCycle Press, 2022 $15.95 paper $2.99 Kindle Playlist: “ ‘Come off a horse enough times/and you learn how to fall.' With its crescendos and diminuendos, this book is concerned not just with falling but also art and its making, paying homage to persistence and survival through music and musicians, paintings and painters, books and their characters. . . The Art of Falling offers an enduring wisdom and reminds us that “Sometimes you just have to let things toughen.” —Amanda Moore, National Poetry Series Winner, 2021 Poems read: “First Tomato” “My Never Ending Katzenjammer” “The Anorexic Teaches Her Children” “Dear Home” February 2022 DMQ Virtual Salon Jennifer jean Object Lesson Lily Press, 2021 $12 Playlist: Jennifer Jean reads from her poetry collection Object Lesson which explores sex-trafficking and objectification in America. She hopes to raise awareness about this persistent human problem. Some poems are based on interviews with survivors at a safe-house where Jennifer volunteered. Poems read: “When I taught poetry at the safe house” “Bird” “Dear Jasz” former DMQ Review Contributor & 2020 Pushcart Nominee james Gering Staying Whole While Falling Apart Interactive Press, 2021 $16 (U.S.) Playlist: Staying Whole While Falling Apart is a playful yet serious exploration of loss and grief, of trying to find balance and stability amidst a giddying welter of experiences. You’ll laugh and cry with Aaron Auslander, a kind of everyman, as he tries to make sense of the flux and tumble of his life. The poetry is sharp and it cuts right to the bone, exposing the vulnerabilities and the precarious provisos under which we all can live. This is a potent book animated by courage and finely-honed craft. —Judith Beveridge, Recipient of the Prime Minister’s Award for poetry 2019 John Sibley Williams The Drowning House Winner, Elixir Press Poetry Award, 2022 $17 Playlist: In The Drowning House, John Sibley Williams grapples with ghosts, the predators outside and in, those closer than our own hearts. In American landscapes haunted by nooses and wolves, burning crosses and floods, Williams holds a light before his path. These are keen-edged poems, kneeling before us, asking forgiveness for what our ancestors have done and have had to live through. He offers himself as a sacrifice for our sins: “here, love, is the tree of my body // to learn to climb. Far from here. From me. To touch / whatever's still up there, beautifully above us." —Philip Metres January 2022 DMQ Virtual Salon linda nemec foster The Blue Divide New Issues Press, 2021 $16.00 Playlist: I'll be reading from my new poetry book, The Blue Divide, which one reviewer described as a collection that “navigates the edges and depths of worlds both here and beyond--through currents of art, love, war, dreams, history, language, family--to map what flows between us." It pays close attention to what can heal and redeem our common journey-- “...pointing out the places where the heart breaks, and where it mends." Specifically, I'll read from a sequence of ekphrastic poems, "The Artist's Notebook," that was the first runner-up in New Letters' Poetry Award and was subsequently published in New Millennium Writings. jae kim Translator Cold Candies: Selected Poems of Lee Young-Ju Black Ocean, 2021 $16.00 Playlist: “Mooncoming” “The Ritual to Come of Age” “Nine Steps” Jenny Qi Focal Point Steel Toe Books, 2021 $16.00 Playlist: Winner of the 2020 Steel Toe Books Poetry Award, Focal Point is a scientist’s unofficial dissertation, a daughter’s faithful correspondence, and a coming-of-age story. Written largely while Jenny Qi was a young Ph.D. student conducting cancer research after her beloved mother's death, the collection turns to “all the rituals of all the faiths,” invoking Western and Eastern mythology and history, metaphors from cell biology, and even Jimi Hendrix, as Qi searches for a container to hold grief. Poems read: “Point At Which Parallel Waves Converge & From Which Diverge” “Biology Lesson 1” “Biology Lesson 2” “Penelope Looks Back” “Contingencies” 2021 December DMQ Virtual Salon Robin Rosen Chang The Curator's Notes Terrapin Books, 2021 $14.92 Playlist: The Curator’s Notes, my debut full-length poetry collection, engages a variety of artifacts from art and the natural world to curate memory and different lived experiences. It also explores how identity, particularly feminine self-image, is shaped by family and collective mythologies. The speaker interrogates the portrayal of Eve in the Creation story, using it as a lens to examine some of her own relationships. Loss, beauty, and love emerge as central themes throughout the collection. Poems read: “Riptide" “Pears" “When My Husband Says Something About Desire" Chloe Yelena miller Viable Lily Poetry Review Books, 2021 $16.00 Playlist: Viable is memoir in verse. The poetry collection follows a mother through a miscarriage, difficult pregnancy, and postpartum depression. The poems lean on Italian and English grammar and vocabulary, recipes and the natural world. Grief and physical pain follow the mother through the pregnancy, Caesarean section, recovery and early parenthood. She learns to navigate her new body and emotions as well as the growing relationship with her child. This book gives voice to a usually silent experience. Poems read: “Carrying” “Fabric Book Emotions” “Fog” “Late Apology” “Physical Apology” “Your Creation Story” erin rodoni And If the Woods Carry You Southern Indiana Review Press, 2021 $16.95 Playlist: My book explores motherhood and childhood in a world on the verge of climate catastrophe through motifs of fairy tale and myth. “Lullaby With Fireflies and Rising Seas" sets up many of the book's themes. “Oh Artemis" addresses the Greek goddess of the hunt, famed for her refusal of all suitors. “Eve, Alone" is a part of a poem sequence called “Parable of the Bull," with an epigraph from Peter S. Beagle's The Last Unicorn: “They passed down all the roads long ago, and the Red Bull ran close behind them and covered their footprints." November DMQ Virtual Salon Aja Couchois duncan Vestigial Litmus Press, 2021 $18 Playlist: I’m reading the beginning of Trilling, the last section of Vestigial. So the beginning of the end or the end of the beginning. The book is a love story, a love that is both human and animal, for the earth, between land and sky. In Trilling the many tributaries of the book come together, they converge and flood. Vestigial can best be read outside, laying naked on the dirt. Or crouched in an aviary. Or lying beneath the moon in a wooden vessel. Or anyplace you can best hear the percussive resonance of your life on earth. Carlo Matos We Prefer the Damned Unbound Edition Press, 2021 $22 Playlist: We Prefer the Damned, the 11th book from Carlo Matos, features poems exploring bisexual relationships, erasure, and denial. Matos pushes toward a new grammar for intersectional identities as the poems in We Prefer the Damned weave his Portuguese-American heritage and bi+ lived experience. Through language turned and punctuated in fresh ways, Matos finds the structures and syntax to embrace past and present, old self and new self. His toughness as a former MMA fighter turns to the finessed strength of rigorous self-examination. former DMQ Review Contributor Rena J. Mosteirin Experiment 116 Counterpath Press, 2021 $25 Playlist: Experiment 116 is a book made up of machine translations of Shakespeare’s “Sonnet 116.” Each poem begins in the Shakespearean English and is translated into two, sometimes three, target languages and then back to English. The titles of these reflect the languages I used when translating the poem down what we might think of as a language path. I begin with “Sonnet 116” in the original Shakespearean English, and then read the following: → Hindi → Yoruba → → Arabic → Hungarian → → Estonian → Sindhi → → Maltese → Tajik → → Samoan → Ukrainian → Telugu → October DMQ Virtual Salon Mary Lou Buschi Paddock Lily Poetry Review Books, 2021 $18.00 Playlist: Paddock is structured like a play. The collection follows two girls on a quest for a mother while exploring hope's unrelenting Tick. This is my second full-length collection. Poems read: “Chorus" “They Set Off" “Twilight" “Girl 1" “Chorus" “Night Swimming" Kelly R. Samuels All the Time in the World Kelsay Books, 2021 $18.50 Playlist: “When Water" “Peat Bogs, Burning" “Milkweed & the Monarch" “Instructions for Henderson Island" former DMQ Review Contributor Shannon K. Winston The Girl Who Talked to Paintings Glass Lyre Press, 2021 $16 Playlist: The Girl Who Talks to Paintings is an ekphrastic collection that conceives of ekphrasis as a type of translation: as a movement between images and words, as well as between lived and imagined experiences. These poems dramatize visual art personas who come alive and become confidants for speakers who are too timid to express themselves otherwise. Artwork becomes an entry point and a catalyst for self-exploration and self-discovery. At its core, The Girl Who Talks to Paintings explores many intertwined themes, including gender and sexuality, family, loss, and language. September DMQ Virtual Salon Kelly cressio-moeller Shade of Blue Trees Two Sylvias Press, 2021 $17 Playlist: Shade of Blue Trees is my first collection. The collection is an exploration of many types of grief and how grief (and, therefore, love) forces us to map our losses onto the known world, by way of deep imagery, myth, and language—both transforming and conjuring, very much rooted in the natural world, particularly the Northern Californian coast. It’s heavy on imagery and heart. I’m reading four poems from this collection: “Meditations on Disappearing” “Begin & End at Big Sur” “Departure” “Something to Remember” Leanne dunic One and Half of You Talonbooks, 2021 $16.95 Playlist: One and Half of You is a memoir that took years to find it's form, finally settling on a collection of poems with a musical score. The untitled poems explore bi-racial/bisexual identity, love, racism, and gentrification, as experienced by me, growing up in a rural part of British Columbia. The book is divided into three sections, each one with a corresponding song (which you can listen to here). This is my second full-length poetry collection. T.J. sandella Ways to Beg Black Lawrence Press, 2021 $17.95 Playlist: The poems in Ways to Beg are in constant conversation. They speak to and of each other, to ancestors, gods, pets, strangers on planes, and, most often, directly to the reader. Their aim is mutual inquiry. They want to swap stories and jokes and secrets, to stay up all night, refilling your beverage of choice, diligently pursuing the unsaid, the unsayable. In short, they want to ask the right questions. To deliberate how we’ve come to inhabit our bodies, our families, our grief, our country, our planet—and how we intend to make good on that lonesome and curious responsibility. former DMQ Review Contibutor August DMQ Virtual Salon Jeff Friedman The Marksman Carnegie Mellon University Press, 2020 $15.95 Playlist: The Marksman, my eighth book, blends surrealism, dark comedy, fable, hyperbole, history, and reinvented myth to target what it means to survive and live in our troubled times. I’m reading four poems from this collection: “What Happened to the Country” “The Marksman” “Zero” “What My Father Heard” Forrest gander Twice Alive New Directions Publishers, 2021 $16.95 Playlist: These poems are influenced by Sangam literature (The Interior Landscape: Love Poems from a classical Tamil Anthology, trans. by A.K. Ramanujan), by ecopoetics, by the writers Brenda Hillman, Stuart Cooke, John Kinsella, Arthur Sze, Coral Bracho, Jorie Graham, Dan Beachy-Quick, Camille Dungy, et. al. Daniel Lassell Spit Wheelbarrow Books, 2021 $15.95 Playlist: Set on a llama farm, Spit examines the boundaries of “home” and the roles we play within the act of belonging. Poems read: “How to Pet a Llama” “Mom Woke to a Coyote Staring in Her Window” “The Way Home” “The Light and Where It Lives” (former DMQ Review Contributor) July DMQ Virtual Salon justin jannise How to Be Better by Being Worse BOA Editions, 2021 $17 Playlist: Many of the poems in How to Be Better by Being Worse involve various aspects of queer culture, especially drag. “Falling As Adele," for example, recounts the speaker's falling in love with a man on Halloween while dressed as the famed British pop star, while “Flamingosexual" proclaims the speaker's acceptance of his own particular breed of femininity, sexuality, and fierce wit. In this clip, Jannise reads two other essentially queer poems—“An Extra Heart" and "Wigs Everywhere”—while peeling back the curtain on his drag makeup and costume routine. thomas R. Smith Storm Island Red Dragonfly Press, 2020 $18 Playlist: Poetry, like music, is an art in and of time. Storm Island's central concern and obsession is time, often viewed through the lens of aging, not only of individuals but of countries, whether gracefully or not. The poems I've chosen are: 1) Impressionist Calendar: My take on the old calendrical poem ala John Clare 2) “To Krista Sleeping:” A love poem 3) “Note to Self:” This can be about whoever you think it's about. 4) “Monarch with a Torn Wing:” A tribute to Red Dragonfly Press publisher and small press giant Scott King who died unexpectedly in April. June DMQ Virtual Salon Featuring the authors of Triptych: Three books of poetry in one volume~ Peter Grandbois Triptych: The Three-Legged World Etruscan Press, 2020 $18 Playlist: Prose Poems Read: [Why not this other dream] ”Someone lit my memory on fire” [My body haunts itself] [Hollowness seeps in when I wake] “The ballet of the broken” james McCorkle Triptych: In Time Etruscan Press, 2020 $18 Playlist: “Fox-Sparrow,” in its four unnumbered sections, draws on the landscapes of western New York, and the watersheds of the Delaware and Susquehanna. Many of the poems in In Time circle around themes of migration, habitat, temporal processes, and dislocation—“Fox-Sparrow” does as well. The poem is also a conversation across time and landscape with the T’ang Dynasty poet Wei Ying-wu, with several lines adapted from Red Pine’s translations from In Such Hard Times (Copper Canyon, 2007). The poem is built as a series of accumulations. jamesmccorklepoet (Instagram) robert miltner Triptych: Orpheus & Echo Etruscan Press, 2020 $18 Playlist: Orpheus & Echo breaks the boundary of narrative, fractures dreams, deranges time, and riffs on myths and muses as Orpheus and his backup band, Echo, leave Samothrace Island, descend into a recording studio to cut an album, then tumble into the fallen underworld world of Las Vegas where he discovers solace. “The gorgeous music in Orpheus & Echo,” says Kathleen McGookey, “is made of lush, precise images, and phrases that transform themselves into stunning riffs through repetition and variation.” Poems read: “Orpheus: invocation to the muses” “studio session [sound check]” “Orpheus in Vegas [dream song]” May DMQ Virtual Salon Dane cervine The World Is God's Language Sixteen Rivers Press, 2021 $16 Playlist: If we imagine the world as a flipbook, each page merging into coherence as it flutters through time, it can be discomfiting to try and apprehend a single, discrete moment frozen in the cascade. That is why Dane Cervine’s poems often create a sense of vertigo as the reader is lifted out of the surge of a fractious reality and given an opportunity to contemplate distinct moments isolated from the clamor and roar. Cervine reveals a sanctified world built of memory, history, and grace, transient but eternal, and where, Cervine makes clear, we are “just visiting.” —Gary Young kim hamilton Calling Through Water Tebot Bach, 2020 $17.00 Playlist: “Ode to Rhubarb” “Swimming in a Foreign Language” “Tourist Map” “Adoration of the Wings” (former DMQ Review Contributor) hayden saunier A Cartography of Home Terrapin Books, 2021 $16.00 Playlist: “Kitchen Table” “After the Press Conference” “A Cartography of Home” A Cartography of Home gathers itself around ideas of habitation, home, place, real and imagined geographies of self and world, and the myriad connections and contradictions among them all. I've weathered the past five years on a 40 acre farm and this has been (and continues to be) an incredible world of gifts every day. April DMQ Virtual Salon Denise Duhamel Second Story University of Pittsburgh Press, 2021 $17 Playlist: Denise Duhamel reads “Swedish Death Cleaning" and “Grand Finale" from Second Story. Both these poems deal with mortality. (former DMQ Review Featured Poet) Rebecca Morgan Frank Oh You Robot Saints! Carnegie Mellon University Press, 2021 $15.95 Playlist: “Creation” “The Mechanical Eves" “Monk Automaton, c. 1560” “Mechanical Tortoise with Triton Rider, 17th century” Want to see some of these automata? Virtually visit the Smithsonian's National Museum of American History to see the monk automaton and the V&A Museum to see the mechanical tortoise. I am indebted to so many scholars and makers of automata whose works informed my book: if you’re interested in finding out more, you can find a list of some of my favorite books about automata over at Lit Hub. Betsy Johnson when animals are animals Mayapple Press, 2021 $17.95 Playlist: Wrong ticks on, and it feeds on silence. In the book, when animals are animals, Betsy Johnson refuses to be “the quietest person in the world.” She names where the teeth are, gets closer to the kick she knows is coming, and makes her weary spirit take up the empty rucksack, because there is work to be done. That is the work of standing up to the “cloud monster,” of being an antidote, of finding hope in a knot of stones. (Editor, DMQ Review ) March DMQ Virtual Salon Peter Johnson Truths, Falsehoods, and a Wee Bit of Honesty: A Short Primer on the Prose Poem, with Selected Letters From Russell Edson MadHat Press, 2021 $21.95 Playlist Poems read*: “Nice Socks" “Vaccination, in the Broadest Sense of the Term" “Crickets" (*forthcoming, Plume) (former DMQ Review Contributor) Molly spencer Hinge Southern Illinois University Press, 2020 $16.95 Playlist I’d like to mention some of the books that helped me write Hinge. Jennifer Richter’s Threshold showed me that poems can transform suffering into something more than suffering. Marie Howe’s The Kingdom of Ordinary Time showed me that everyday life and the great mysteries of existence belong together in poems. Denise Levertov’s work taught me to recall past selves and landscapes with tenderness. As counter-balance, Louise Glück’s work taught me self-skepticism. Traci Brimhall’s Rookery showed me that Hinge is an elegy, which helped me know how to structure the book. Gratitude to these poets and many more. Abigail Wender Reliquary Four Way Books, 2021 $16.95 Playlist Reliquary considers distance and intimacy through lyric poems that address the complicated nature of grief, illness and addiction, and how love—even bliss—figure into grief’s equation. The collection suspends time as the speaker weaves between past and present, assembling fragments and vignettes of childhood, marriage, and womanhood. Poems read: “First Snow” “Hiking” “Auguries” “Barn Swallow” “A Blessing” (former DMQ Review Contributor) February DMQ Virtual Salon Meg Eden Drowning in the Floating World Press 53, 2020 $14.95 Playlist Drowning in the Floating World revolves around 3/11: the 2011 Tohoku earthquake and Fukushima Powerplant Disaster. These poems serve as a tsunami stone, a memorial to remember those lost and learn from disaster. They also challenged me to think about how we cope with disaster, and where do we find hope even when earthly circumstances feel hopeless. Poems read: “Things to Do In My Hometown: Higashimatsushima” “I Ask my Mother What It's Like, Living at the Bottom of the Ocean” “Town Hall” Caroline M. Mar Special Education Texas Review Press, 2020 $19.95 Playlist Special Education is a new teacher's journey to understanding herself, her students, and her world through the hard lessons her work life offers up. Poems read: “Tongue" “Uniform" David ruekberg Hour of the Green Light FutureCycle Press, 2021 $15.95 Playlist Hour of the Green Light begins in the womb when the soul chooses to leave the “green light” of paradise, and explores the aftermath of that choice—life in the poignant world of time and space. A bike ride in Central Park, the threat of invasive chipmunks, hanging laundry, climate change, and a rodeo provide a few of the settings for this inquiry into love, work, self, and death. Despite our perception of darkness in this life, these poems urge us to discover “the only light we can know.” Poems read: “Delivery” “Happy Hour” “Want” “Work” (former DMQ Review Contributor) January DMQ Virtual Salon jane Craven My Bright Last Country Cloudbank Books, 2020 $16 Playlist Winner of the 2020 Vern Rutsala Poetry Prize, My Bright Last Country contains “Meditations on art, artists, love, marriage, place, dream, the seam that both tears and binds, all through the fierce eyes of a woman awake at the center of the world. " - Dorianne Laux Reading: “Bluebird" “The Sketchbooks of Hiroshige" “Imaginary 21st Century American Photograph" “And then" (former DMQ Review contributor) W. Todd Kaneko This is How the Bone Sings Black Lawrence Press, 2020 $16.95 Playlist This Is How the Bone Sings is a book of poems about my family's incarceration at Minidoka, the concentration camp for Japanese Americans during World War II. My father and grandparents lived there for the duration of the war and the book is about their relationships to camp, as well as the relationship between Minidoka and my children and me. I’ll read four poems: “Minidoka Was a Concentration Camp in Idaho" “Cattle Mutilation" “Year of the Monkey" “Oh, Say Can You See" (former DMQ Review editor) Christopher Salerno Deathbed Sext Two Sylvias Press, 2020 $14 Playlist Poems Read: “Headfirst" “Post Op" “We're Laughing But We've Just Seen A Darkness" “At the Farm Stand During the Solar Eclipse" “Men Who Won't Travel" “Don't You Have A Favorite Hour?" (former DMQ Review editor) 2020 December DMQ Virtual Salon GEORGE BURNS: If a Fish, Cathexsis Northwest Press, $16/$4 ebook video unavailable DANUSHA LAMERIS: Bonfire Opera, University of Pittsburgh Press, Pitt Poetry Series 2020, $17. VIDEO HERE JEANNE WAGNER: Everything Turns Into Something Else, Grayson Books, $15.98 VIDEO HERE November DMQ Virtual Salon NIN ANDREWS: The Last Orgasm, Etruscan Press, $19 VIDEO HERE LAURA DONNELY: Midwest Gothic , Ashland Poetry Press, 2020, $15.95 VIDEO HERE SARAH J. SLOAT: Hotel Almighty, Sarabande Books, $19.95 VIDEO HERE October DMQ Virtual Salon KEN HAAS: Borrowed Light , Red Mountain Press, 2020, $21.95 VIDEO HERE JEN KARETNICK: The Burning Where Breath Used to Be, David Robert Books, 2020, $19 VIDEO HERE MICHAEL SALCMAN: Shades & Graces: New Poems, Spuyten Duyvil, 2020, $15 VIDEO HERE September DMQ Virtual Salon DION O’REILLY: Ghost Dogs, Terrapin Books, 2020, $14 VIDEO HERE JENNIFER K. SWEENEY: Foxlogic, Fireweed, The Backwaters Press, 2020, $15.95 VIDEO HERE KATHLEEN WINTER: Transformer, The Word Works, 2020, $18 VIDEO HERE August DMQ Virtual Salon JP DANCING BEAR: Of Oracles and Monsters , Glass Lyre Press, 2020, $16.00 VIDEO HERE MAGGIE PAUL: Scrimshaw, Hummingbird Press, 2020, $15.00 VIDEO HERE CONNIE POST: Prime Meridian, Glass Lyre Press, 2020, $ 16.00 VIDEO HERE July 2020 Inaugural DMQ Virtual Salon ELIZABETH T. GRAY, JR. : Salient, New Directions Publishing, 2020, $16.95 VIDEO HERE ANNIE KIM: Eros, Unbroken, The Word Works, 2020, $18.00 VIDEO HERE JENNY MOLBERG: Refusal: Poems, LSU Press, 2020, $18.95 VIDEO HERE


--- [Apr | 2019 - Byron's Muse - WordPress.com] ---
Mad from life’s history, Glad to death’s mystery, Swift to be hurl’d— Anywhere, anywhere Out of the world! William James Grant, The Bridge of Sighs, mid 1850s, oil on panel, 5 inches in Diameter If a woman succumbs to society’s condemnation and feels that she cannot live with herself and her shame any longer… then drowning in the Thames is the only option. This is exactly what is portrayed in Grant’s painting “The Bridge of Sighs”. Pale young woman was found drowned, washed on the shores of the Thames, just near the bridge but moments ago. And now the man who found her is holding her frail pale body in his arm and taking her out of the water. Colourful shawl and the white dress are heavy and wet, but not heavier then her heart must have been before she made this decision. Look how lifelessly her arm, head and hair are hanging. The sad heart beats no more. Here is what the same-named poem says of the moment: Ere her limbs frigidly Stiffen too rigidly, Decently, kindly, Smooth and compose them; And her eyes, close them, Staring so blindly! The theme of a fallen woman was very popular in the Victorian era, especially in the 1850s and 1860s. All members of the Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhod; Rossetti, Millais and Hunt explored the theme, each in his own way, and many other artists followed their example and painted a theme which included exposing the hypocrisy of the Victorian society. It was very easy to be a fallen woman in Victorian era: “Fallen” was therefore an umbrella term that was applied to a variety of women in a variety of settings: she may have been a woman who had had sex once or habitually outside the confines of marriage; a woman of a lower socio-economic class; a woman who had been raped or seduced by a male aggressor; a woman with a shady reputation; or a prostitute. Furthermore, prostitution was defined in a range of ways and the “reality was that hard economic times meant that for many women, prostitution was the only way to make ends meet. Many … were only transient fallen women, moving in and out of the profession (of prostitution) as family finances dictated.’(*) So this woman wasn’t necessarily a prostitute, she could have also been a working class girl whose lover abandoned her. Or, she could have been a shop worker whose destitute situation compelled her, maybe even once, to prostitution. Once or ten times, she is fallen nonetheless and tainted in the eyes of the respectable world. This painting is the most recent example of this theme that I stumbled upon, and it instantly appealed to me. It’s apparently very small, just little less than 13 cm in diameter. The round shaped canvas with closely cropped figures of the woman’s poignantly painted dead body, two men, and the sinister bridge in the background, along with the frame inscribed with a stanza from Thomas Hood’s poem “The Bridge of Sighs” is just striking. All these artworks are poetic and empathetic views of a bleak theme, and that brings to my mind the kitchen sink drama films which I love so much. In such films, the protagonist is faced with a huge life dilemma. The theme was equally explored in Victorian era literature; we have Charles Dickens’s kind-hearted prostitutes and most importantly Thomas Hood’s poem “The Bridge of Sighs”, published in 1844. The poem tells a story of an anonymous young woman, desperate and abandoned by her lover, pregnant and thrown out of her home, who committed suicide by jumping of off a bridge. Here is the whole poem: One more Unfortunate, Weary of breath, Rashly importunate, Gone to her death! Take her up tenderly, Lift her with care; Fashion’d so slenderly Young, and so fair! Look at her garments Clinging like cerements; Whilst the wave constantly Drips from her clothing; Take her up instantly, Loving, not loathing. Touch her not scornfully; Think of her mournfully, Gently and humanly; Not of the stains of her, All that remains of her Now is pure womanly. Make no deep scrutiny Into her mutiny Rash and undutiful: Past all dishonour, Death has left on her Only the beautiful. Still, for all slips of hers, One of Eve’s family— Wipe those poor lips of hers Oozing so clammily. Loop up her tresses Escaped from the comb, Her fair auburn tresses; Whilst wonderment guesses Where was her home? Who was her father? Who was her mother? Had she a sister? Had she a brother? Or was there a dearer one Still, and a nearer one Yet, than all other? Alas! for the rarity Of Christian charity Under the sun! O, it was pitiful! Near a whole city full, Home she had none. Sisterly, brotherly, Fatherly, motherly Feelings had changed: Love, by harsh evidence, Thrown from its eminence; Even God’s providence Seeming estranged. Where the lamps quiver So far in the river, With many a light From window and casement, From garret to basement, She stood, with amazement, Houseless by night. The bleak wind of March Made her tremble and shiver; But not the dark arch, Or the black flowing river: Mad from life’s history, Glad to death’s mystery, Swift to be hurl’d— Anywhere, anywhere Out of the world! In she plunged boldly— No matter how coldly The rough river ran— Over the brink of it, Picture it—think of it, Dissolute Man! Lave in it, drink of it, Then, if you can! Take her up tenderly, Lift her with care; Fashion’d so slenderly, Young, and so fair! Ere her limbs frigidly Stiffen too rigidly, Decently, kindly, Smooth and compose them; And her eyes, close them, Staring so blindly! Dreadfully staring Thro’ muddy impurity, As when with the daring Last look of despairing Fix’d on futurity. Perishing gloomily, Spurr’d by contumely, Cold inhumanity, Burning insanity, Into her rest.— Cross her hands humbly As if praying dumbly, Over her breast! Owning her weakness, Her evil behaviour, And leaving, with meekness, Her sins to her Saviour! Tags: 1844, 1850s, abandoned, art, dead body, dead woman, Death, fallen woman, London, Painting, Pre-Raphaelites, prostitute, Thames, The Bridge of Sighs, Thomas Hood, victorian art, Victorian era, William James Grant
