=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[UMass economics professor Stephen Resnick dies of Leukemia at age 74]
Jan 22, 2013 · Courtesy umass.edu Stephen Resnick, a professor emeritus of economics at the University of Massachusetts who made a name for himself as a champion of Marxian economics, died on Jan. 2. He was 74. The cause of death was leukemia. Resnick, who taught at UMass for nearly four decades, challenged the norm of neoclassical dominance in mainstream economic thought in an effort to teach a balance ...
URL: https://dailycollegian.com/2013/01/umass-economics-professor-stephen-resnick-dies-of-leukemia-at-age-74/

[Stephen Resnick, professor of economics at UMass-Amherst, dies ...]
Jan 4, 2013 · AMHERST - Stephen A. Resnick, a professor emeritus of economics at the University of Massachusetts who won the school's distinguished teaching award and is best known for his piercing critiques of ...
URL: https://www.masslive.com/news/2013/01/stephen_resnick_professor_of_e.html

[Stephen A. Resnick - NNDB]
Stephen A. Resnick AKA Stephen Alvin Resnick Born: 24-Oct - 1938 Birthplace: New Bedford, MA Died: 2-Jan - 2013 Cause of death: Cancer - Leukemia Gender: Male Race or Ethnicity: White Sexual orientation: Straight Occupation: Economist Nationality: United States Executive summary: Knowledge and Class Wife: Charlotte Provizer (until his death, two daughters, one son) Daughter: Karen Braverman ...
URL: https://www.nndb.com/people/179/000402967/

[Stephen Resnick - Wikipedia]
Resnick died on January 2, 2013, as a result of leukemia. [4] Notable works of Stephen Resnick include: Hymer, S., & Resnick, S. (1969). A model of an agrarian economy with nonagricultural activities. The American Economic Review, 59 (4), 493–506. Richard D. Wolff and Stephen A. Resnick.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stephen_Resnick

[Stephen Resnick Obituary - Brookline, MA - Dignity Memorial]
Jan 2, 2013 · Stephen A. Resnick of Newton on Wednesday, January 2, 2013. Beloved husband of Charlotte (Provizer).Devoted father of Peter Resnick and his wife Lisa of Arlington, Karen Braverman and her husband Michael of Sudbury and Lynn Minchello and husband David of Arlington. Loving grandfather of Benjamin, Jessica, Alexandra, Jack, Emily and Sophie.
URL: https://www.dignitymemorial.com/obituaries/brookline-ma/stephen-resnick-5366358


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [UMass economics professor Stephen Resnick dies of Leukemia at age 74] ---
Stephen Resnick, a professor emeritus of economics at the University of Massachusetts who made a name for himself as a champion of Marxian economics, died on Jan. 2. He was 74. The cause of death was leukemia. Resnick, who taught at UMass for nearly four decades, challenged the norm of neoclassical dominance in mainstream economic thought in an effort to teach a balance between three major types of thinking in the field: Neoclassical, Keynesian and Marxian. In 1973, Resnick and four other professors moved to ply their trade at UMass, a move one of his close friends and colleagues, Richard Wolff, said put the economics department “on the map.” “The idea was that UMass would depart from the old, and in our minds, stale conventions of mainstream economics in order to make UMass Amherst a different kind of economics department – one that had the conventional stuff but also was interested in and committed to teaching the alternative approaches to economics that most other economics departments were afraid to include in the curriculum,” Wolff said. “UMass instantly transformed from another economics department alongside countless others into the number one diverse heterodox economics department. “Nobody was more responsible for that than Stephen Resnick,” he added. It was at Yale that Resnick met Wolff, a then-graduate student who Resnick would go on to produce a number of publications with. Together, the pair of Marxian thinkers shared office space in Thompson Hall, where they launched a quarterly journal called “Rethinking Marxism,” wrote eight books and penned over 30 scholarly articles. Over his career, Resnick spent close to a half-century teaching in the classroom, including 38 years teaching courses at UMass. While he did teach upper-level classes in Marxian theory, Resnick also took the lead in the basic introduction course in the department, Economics 103. Explaining that the course was essentially an introduction to the mainstream Neoclassical school of economic thought, Wolff said that Resnick “believed it was his duty as a reasonable intellectual to make sure students were also exposed to the analysis of capitalism put forward by people who were critical of it.” With regard to Resnick’s teaching ability, Wolff said the awards do the talking for his longtime colleague and friend. “As a teacher, Steve taught at Yale University, City University of New York and at UMass,” Wolff said. “At each of these institutions he won every teaching award any of those institutions offered to anyone.” Resnick was awarded the University Distinguished Teaching Award for the 1997-98 school year, in addition to the Outstanding Teacher Award in the Social and Behavioral Sciences. Fellow Professor John Stifler, who joined UMass in 1984 as part of the new Junior Year Writing program, was able to watch Resnick up close as he gained his footing at the University. “In the classroom, Steve Resnick was the picture of lucidity,” Stifler said. “You could have a lecture hall of 300 people and if he was giving a lecture, not one of them would be asleep.” “I watched him teach,” Stifler added.“Watching Steve reassured me immediately that at the university level I could be just as personal with the students. Making sure I knew their names, looking them in the eye, cross-examining them. Making them really think hard about what they were saying.” Stifler said Resnick was not only a notable storyteller, but also someone who was “hilariously funny” with “a very quick wit.” “He was just a wonderful, warm person and I miss him terribly,” Stifler added. Originally from New Bedford, Resnick graduated from the University of Pennsylvania before receiving his Ph.D in economics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1963. He first taught as an assistant professor at Yale and then moved to the City College of New York before coming to UMass. In 2011, Resnick retired from the department’s teaching faculty and took up a three-year term as the Helen Sheridan Memorial Scholar, during which he intended to complete a pair of projects. In 2012, Wolff and Resnick published their final work together: “Contending Economic Theories: Neoclassical, Keynesian, and Marxian. Wolff, who now teaches as a professor in the graduate program in International Affairs at the New School University in Manhattan, said he believes Resnick’s legacy lives on in the work that he did in establishing the UMass economics department as a program dedicated to diverse thinking. “Give him the respect of making sure that the work he did – the articles, the books – continue to be part of the curriculum at UMass,” Wolff said. “That the University not allow the particular approach that he favored, the commitment he had, especially to Marxian economics and making that a central part of the curriculum, that that not be allowed to fade away” “If that does happen, the risk is not only do people miss out on all that Steve Resnick achieved, but it does also mean that the University of Massachusetts, at least in terms of its economics department, will slide back into the cookie cutter replica of every other economics department instead of being the outstanding, open, diverse, multi-approach department that made it so famous,” Wolff added. Resnick is survived by his wife, three children and six grandchildren. Jeffrey Okerman can be reached at [email protected].


--- [Stephen Resnick, professor of economics at UMass-Amherst, dies ...] ---
AMHERST - Stephen A. Resnick, a professor emeritus of economics at the University of Massachusetts who won the school's distinguished teaching award and is best known for his piercing critiques of capitalism, died Wednesday after a bout with leukemia. He was 74. Resnick, of Newton Centre, taught at the university for nearly 4 decades, arriving at the Amherst campus in 1973 after beginning his teaching career at Yale University. He earned a B.S. in economics from the University of Pennsylvania in 1960 and a Ph.D. from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1964. During his time as a graduate student he held Woodrow Wilson and Brookings Institute fellowships, according to his online University of Massachusetts biography. "His classes were always oversubscribed," said friend and long-time collaborator Richard D. Wolff, of Manhattan. "There was a magic to the way he brought this stuff alive and made it exciting." Wolff, who retired from UMass in 2008 and now teaches at the The New School in Manhattan, said he met Resnick as a graduate student at Yale. When Wolff took a teaching position at the City College of New York, Resnick -- a believer in the school's controversial open admissions policy -- followed. UMass eventually recruited the pair, Wolff recalled, as the university sought to build a "cutting edge and innovative" economics department in the early 1970s. "Nothing would fit that better than to bring a bunch of different kinds of economists together in their department," Wolff said, adding that Resnick was an anchor of the new team of faculty members attempting to "create program that would make students aware of the entire range of economic theory." "It made UMass the place for students who wanted to study both traditional and alternate theories," Wolff said. In Thompson Hall, Wolff said, he and Resnick merged offices in order to free up space to create a student lounge in the economics department. "It was a place for students to talk to one another, and to meet with us," Wolff said, adding that the academic journal "Rethinking Marxism" "was born and developed at UMass, in that lounge." Resnick helped launch the publication, now published by Routledge, and remained on its editorial board until 1994. In addition to teaching advanced courses in Marxian theory, Resnick's course load included introductory lectures such as the department's prerequisite class in macroeconomic theory. But while Resnick's research and writing offered vigorous criticisms of what he saw as a fundamental instability underlying the American economic system -- an instability that surfaced, in his view, in the form of a business cycle that periodically left large swaths of the workforce unemployed and businesses facing bankruptcy -- Wolff said his former colleague brought a sense of balance to his teaching. It was an approach, Wolff said, that won the respect of students whose own beliefs spanned the spectrums of political and economic theory. "Steve won every teaching prize that UMass has -- and that was very unusual for an economics professor," Wolff said. In addition to the teaching award won during the 1997-98 academic year, Resnick’s accolades include an outstanding teacher award in the social and behavioral sciences, which he also won that same year. Wolff said Resnick remained committed to teaching the concept of the business cycle even as that approach - which had been central to the curriculum of many economics departments in the wake of the Great Depression - fell out of favor. "Marxists have developed powerful insights into the causes and social costs of business cycles in capitalism," Wolff said, adding later: "Your ability to make sense of the current economic crisis would be enhanced by studying under Steve, whether you agree with Marxian thought or not." With Wolff, Resnick co-authored a number of essays, articles and books, including "Knowledge and Class: A Marxian Critique of Political Economy" and "Contending Economic Theories: Neoclassical, Keynesian, and Marxian." Wolff said the latter text, published in August 2012 by the MIT Press, exemplifies Resnick's belief in a comparative approach to teaching the subject that exposed students to a wide range of economic thinking. "This is what he always did," Wolff said. "He brought a balanced approach, with an emphasis on Marxism." In the fall of 2011 Resnick began a three-year term as the university's second Helen Sheridan Memorial Scholar, according to the school's website. He had planned to complete two research projects during that tenure, with one examining social security, private pensions, and medical insurance in the context of Marxian theory and the other involving an analysis of Marxian, neoclassical and Keynesian approaches to questions about international trade and capital flows. He leaves a wife, Charlotte, and three children. Editor's note: Greg Saulmon majored in English and economics at the University of Massachusetts, and took several of Resnick's classes.


--- [Stephen A. Resnick - NNDB] ---
| Stephen A. Resnick AKA Stephen Alvin Resnick Born: 24-Oct-1938 Birthplace: New Bedford, MA Died: 2-Jan-2013 Cause of death: Cancer - Leukemia Gender: Male Race or Ethnicity: White Sexual orientation: Straight Occupation: Economist Nationality: United States Executive summary: Knowledge and Class Wife: Charlotte Provizer (until his death, two daughters, one son) Daughter: Karen Braverman Daughter: Lynn Minchello Son: Peter Resnick University: BS Economics, University of Pennsylvania (1960) University: PhD, Massachusetts Institute of Technology (1964) Professor: Yale University (1965-71) Professor: City College of New York (1971-73) Professor: University of Massachusetts Amherst (1973-2011) Copyright ©2026 |


--- [Stephen Resnick - Wikipedia] ---
Stephen Alvin Resnick (; October 24, 1938 – January 2, 2013) was an American Marxist economist. He was well known for his work (much of it written together with Richard D. Wolff) on Marxian economics, economic methodology, and class analysis. His work, along with that of Wolff, is especially associated with a post-Althusserian perspective on political economy.


--- [Stephen Resnick Obituary - Brookline, MA - Dignity Memorial] ---
Beloved husband of Charlotte (Provizer).Devoted father of Peter Resnick and his wife Lisa of Arlington, Karen Braverman and her husband Michael of Sudbury and Lynn Minchello and husband David of Arlington. Loving grandfather of Benjamin, Jessica, Alexandra, Jack, Emily and Sophie. Dear brother of Kenneth Resnick and his wife Julie of Texas. Private services were held on Friday, January 4, 2013. Remembrances may be made to the charity of your choice.
