=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Niels Norlund (1885 - 1981) - Biography - MacTutor History of ...]
In addition to spending considerable time observing star positions and proper motions of stars, Norlund also undertook research in mathematics. In 1907 he was awarded a gold medal for an essay on continued fractions and his resulting two publications were in 1908: Sur les différences réciproques Ⓣ
URL: https://mathshistory.st-andrews.ac.uk/Biographies/Norlund/

[Niels Erik Nørlund (1885 - 1981) - Genealogy - Geni.com]
Nov 24, 2016 · In 1907 he was awarded a gold medal for an essay on continued fractions and his resulting two publications were in 1908: Sur les différences réciproques; and Sur la convergence des fractions continues both published in Comptes Rendus de l'Academie des Sciences.
URL: https://www.geni.com/people/Niels-Erik-N%C3%B8rlund/6000000012334042423

[Niels Erik Nørlund - Wikipedia]
Niels Erik Nørlund ForMemRS [1] (26 October 1885, in Slagelse – 4 July 1981, in Copenhagen) was a Danish mathematician. [2][3][4] His book Vorlesungen über Differenzenrechnung (1924, reprinted 1954) was the first book on complex function solutions of difference equations.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Niels_Erik_N%C3%B8rlund

[Pat'sBlog: On This Day in Math - October 26]
1885 Niels Erik Norlund (26 Oct 1885 in Slagelse, near Soro, Sjaelland, Denmark - 4 July 1981 in Copenhagen, Denmark) In 1907 he was awarded a gold medal for an essay on continued fractions and his resulting two publications were in 1908: Sur les différences réciproques; and Sur la convergence des fractions continues both published in Comptes ...
URL: https://pballew.blogspot.com/2015/10/on-this-day-in-math-october-26.html

[Niels Erik Norlund]
In 1907 he was awarded a gold medal for an essay on continued fractions and his resulting two publications were in 1908: Sur les différences réciproques; and Sur la convergence des fractions continues both published in Comptes Rendus de l'Academie des Sciences.
URL: https://almerja.com/more.php?idm=80697


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Niels Norlund (1885 - 1981) - Biography - MacTutor History of ...] ---
Niels Erik Norlund Quick Info Slagelse, near Soro, Sjaelland, Denmark Copenhagen, Denmark Biography Niels Norlund's father was Alfred Norlund who ran the pharmacy in the small town of Slagelse. Niels was the oldest of his parents' three children, having a younger sister Margrethe and a younger brother Poul. Margrethe is mentioned elsewhere in this archive as the wife of Niels Bohr whom she married on 1 August 1912. Poul became a famous archaeologist and director of the National Museum in Copenhagen. Niels attended elementary school in Slagelse but then had to go to the larger nearby town of Soro for his secondary schooling. He attended the excellent Soro Academy, completing his school education in 1903.At school Norlund had loved mathematics and astronomy. When he entered the University of Copenhagen in 1903, he was still undecided as to which subject he should specialise in. So, he did the sensible thing and studied both subjects. Norlund had a number of lecturers with international reputations: for example he was taught mathematics by Hieronymus Georg Zeuthen, Julius Petersen, and Niels Nielsen; and astronomy by Thorvald Thiele. Norlund was most attracted by the vigorous Niels Nielsen, who lectured on the theory of functions, and by Thorvald Thiele whose interests in astronomy were mainly on orbits and the three-body problem. Norlund's first publication was in 1905 when he published a paper on a known double star in Ursa Major which, with careful measurements of their orbits, he was able to deduce was actually a triple system with a third star which was too faint to observe. This fine piece of theoretical and observational work led to his appointment as an assistant at the Astronomical Observatory at the University of Copenhagen, working under Thiele who was the director. In addition to spending considerable time observing star positions and proper motions of stars, Norlund also undertook research in mathematics. In 1907 he was awarded a gold medal for an essay on continued fractions and his resulting two publications were in 1908: Sur les différences réciproques Ⓣ; and Sur la convergence des fractions continues Ⓣ both published in Comptes Rendus de l'Academie des Sciences. These publications in the most prestigious French journal earned Norlund an international reputation despite still being an undergraduate. In the summer of 1910 he earned a Master's degree in astronomy and in October of that year he successfully defended his doctoral thesis in mathematics Bidrag til de lineaere differentialligningers Theori Ⓣ. In the same year he published the 100-page paper Fractions continues et différences réciproques Ⓣ as well as Sur les fractions continues d'interpolation Ⓣ, a paper on Halley's comet, and an obituary of his teacher Thorvald Thiele. Bang writes of Norlund's doctoral thesis [1]:- The thesis is the beginning of the penetrating study of difference equations that he accomplished in the following 15 years. The problem in difference equations is to find general methods for determining a function when the size of its increase on intervals of a given length is known.We explained at the beginning of this biography how Norlund's sister Margrethe married Niels Bohr. Of course Niels Bohr was the brother of the outstanding mathematician Harald Bohr who was a close friend of Norlund; for example each read the proofs of the others doctoral thesis. Following the award of his doctorate, Norlund remained at Copenhagen for two years continuing to work as an assistant at the Observatory. In 1912 he was appointed to a new chair of mathematics at the university in Lund in Sweden. In the same year he married Agnete Waever; they had two daughters. He held the chair at Lund for ten years and during this time he left his interest in astronomy and concentrated entirely on research in mathematics. Bang explains the main aspects of this research in [1]:- ... a long series of papers developing the theory of difference equations. He studied the factorial series and interpolation series entering in their solutions, determining their region of convergence and by analytic prolongation and different summation methods he extended them in the complex plane, determining their singularities and their behaviour at infinity, also by use of their relations to continued fractions and asymptotic series. In particular the little paper 'Sur une application des fonctions permutables' Ⓣ from 1919 should be mentioned: there he states some universal results on the summability of series based on a specific - but rather general - choice of the weights given to the elements; the method includes the better of the known summability methods, such as Cesaro's method, and is now known under the standard designation of Norlund-summation.With a high international profile, Norlund was elected to the Danish Academy of Sciences in 1916. In the same year he became a member of the editorial staff of Acta mathematica, the journal founded and run by Mittag-Leffler. He was one of only five plenary speakers invited to address the 1920 International Congress of Mathematicians at Strasbourg. There he gave the lecture Sur les équations aux différences finies Ⓣ. Now it was important to attract such a high profile Danish mathematician back to Denmark, but with Copenhagen the only Danish university, and only two mathematics chairs at that university, the possibilities were very limited. To solve this situation a third mathematics chair was created at the University of Copenhagen and Norlund invited to fill it. He accepted and took up his new position in September 1922. He published the important book Vorlesungen über Differenzenrechnung Ⓣ in 1924. R D Carmichael writes in a review [4]:- This is the first book to develop the theory of the difference calculus from the function-theoretic point of view and to include a significant part of the recent researches having to do with the analytic and asymptotic character of the solutions of linear difference equations. As such it is an important contribution to the mathematical literature and will render a service not procurable from any of its predecessors. The author presents a connected account of what appears to him to be the most important and the best developed domains of the difference calculus. The book is intended to give a preliminary view of the field and to facilitate the reading of the original memoirs. With this purpose in view the author sometimes omits proofs (too frequently, we think) leaving the reader to find them in the indicated memoirs.Events conspired to stop Norlund carrying out mathematical research during the thirty years he held the mathematics chair in Copenhagen. There were administrative duties at the university, administrative tasks related to the Danish Academy of Sciences but, most significantly, he was persuaded to take up the post of Director of Den danske Gradmaaling, the Danish institution responsible for geodesic surveys. He took on this role with enthusiasm, using the skills he had acquired during his earlier role in the Observatory. He introduced new courses at the university and established a Master's Degree in geodesy. He also studied seismology and, in 1925, set up seismographic stations in Denmark and Greenland. In 1928 he persuaded the Danish government to set up a Geodesic Institute, combining the Gradmaalingen and the Danish ordinance survey. He was appointed as director [1]:- Here he could wholly use his capacity for organizing work, exacting a combination on a high level of mathematics, astronomy, physics and mechanics. Besides the necessary updating of the ordnance maps of Denmark, he put into operation new more precise triangulations and measurement of the matching new baselines and new astronomical determinations.During World War II, the German armies invaded Denmark and although for a while the country was allowed to remain a sovereign state, eventually Germans took over complete control. The Geodesic Institute could not continue with its work, but Norland used the opportunity to produce a series of atlases, detailing the history of the mapping of Denmark, the Faroe Islands and Iceland. They were produced using the resources of the Institute and are truly beautiful works, highly sought after today. Also during World War II he published a number of mathematics papers such as Ausgleichung nach der Methode der kleinsten Quadrate bei gruppenweiser Anordnung der Beobachtungen Ⓣ (1940) and Determination of the weights for the unknowns in graduation of elements (Danish) (1943). In 1955 Norland reached retirement age. That mathematics was his first love now became clear, for once he gave up the responsibilities of the Geodesic Institute he returned to mathematics research. He published Hypergeometric functions in 1955 which was reviewed by Arthur Erdélyi:- This is one of those rare papers in which sound mathematics goes hand in hand with excellent exposition and style; and the reader is both instructed and delighted. It is likely to become the standard memoir on the generalized hypergeometric series ...The paper Sur les fonctions hypergéométriques d'ordre supérieur Ⓣ (1956) gives a very full, rigorous and classical treatment of some integrals from generalized hypergeometric function theory. Let us give one further example of the papers Norland published after he retired. This is The logarithmic solutions of the hypergeometric equation (1963) which was reviewed by L J Slater:- In this important paper the author discusses in a clear and detailed way the complete logarithmic solutions of the hypergeometric differential equation satisfied by the Gauss function ... Complete tables are given of the linear and quadratic relations which hold between the various solutions in every possible special case. Tables are also given for the continuation formulae which hold between the logarithmic and other cases of Riemann's P-function, and the paper concludes with a very clear statement of the logarithmic solutions of the confluent hypergeometric equation satisfied by Kummer's function ...Norlund received a large number of honours for his contributions to mathematics and to geodesy. He was elected to the Det kongelige danske Videnskabernes Selskab (1916), the Société des Sciences, Strasbourg (1920), the Accademia Pontaniana, Napoli (1925), the Kungliga Vetenskapsakademien, Stockholm (1925), the Societas scientiarum Fennica, Helsinki (1926), the Académie des Sciences, Paris (1926), the Accademia Nazionale dei Lincei, Roma (1927), the Deutsche Akademie der Naturforscher, Halle (1927), the Royal Astronomical Society, London (1935), the Bureau des Longitudes, Paris (1937), the Royal Society, London (1938), the Akademiet for de tekniske Videnskaber, Kobenhavn (1939), the Norwegian Academy of Science and Letters, Oslo (1946), the Vetenskapsakademien, Helsinki (1946), the Det kungliga vetenskapliga Sallskapet, Uppsala (1951), the Societas scientiarum Islandica, Reykjavik (1959), and the New York Academy of Sciences (1960). He received the Grand Prix of the Académie des Sciences, Paris (1916), the Kungliga Fysiografiska Sallskapets Gold Medal (1916), the Ole Rømer Medal (1954), and the Vitus Bering Medal (1958). Finally let us look at Norlund's character [1]:- Nobody who met Norlund could doubt that he was a great personality, a conclusion in keeping also with his tall aristocratic stature. He was a man of few words, not immediately obliging to strangers, and even his closer collaborators often felt his taciturnity embarrassing. This coolness could be felt as an aloofness; maybe it was due to some sort of shyness, but on the other hand his words thus gained more importance and one could feel how he exerted himself to find the right solution to problems. Students or employees who came closer to him could rejoice at his warm-hearted interest, but as an administrator he could be severe. Maybe that was necessary in his position ... References (show) - T Bang, Niels Erik Norlund. 26 October 1885-4 July 1981, Biographical Memoirs of Fellows of the Royal Society 29 (1983), 481-493. - T Bang, Niels Erik Norlund in memoriam, Acta Math. 161 (1-2) (1988), 11-22. - L Carleson and L Garding, Obituary of Niels Erik Norlund, Acta Math. 148 (1982), 1. - R D Carmichael, Review: Vorlesungen über Differenzenrechnung by Niels Erik Norlund, Bull. Amer. Math. Soc. 31 (8) (1925), 445-449. - H Cartan, Niels Erik Norlund (French), C. R. Acad. Sci. Paris Vie Académique 297 (1983), suppl. 9, 17. Additional Resources (show) Other websites about Niels Norlund: Honours (show) Honours awarded to Niels Norlund Cross-references (show) Written by J J O'Connor and E F Robertson Last Update February 2010 Last Update February 2010


--- [Niels Erik Nørlund (1885 - 1981) - Genealogy - Geni.com] ---
Historical records matching Niels Erik Nørlund Immediate Family - wife - mother - father - brother - sister About Niels Erik Nørlund Niels Norlund's father was Alfred Norlund who ran the pharmacy in the small town of Slagelse. Niels was the oldest of his parents' three children, having a younger sister Margrethe and a younger brother Poul. Margrethe is mentioned elsewhere in this archive as the wife of Niels Bohr who she married on 1 August 1912. Poul became a famous archaeologist and director of the National Museum in Copenhagen. Niels attended elementary school in Slagelse but then had to go to the larger nearby town of Soro for his secondary schooling. He attended the excellent Soro Academy, completing his school education in 1903. At school Norlund had loved mathematics and astronomy. When he entered the University of Copenhagen in 1903, he was still undecided as to which subject he should specialise in. So, he did the sensible thing and studied both subjects. Norlund had a number of lecturers with international reputations: for example he was taught mathematics by Hieronymus Georg Zeuthen, Julius Petersen, and Niels Nielsen; and astronomy by Thorvald Thiele. Norlund was most attracted by the vigorous Niels Nielsen, who lectured on the theory of functions, and by Thorvald Thiele whose interests in astronomy were mainly on orbits and the three-body problem. Norlund's first publication was in 1905 when he published a paper on a known double star in Ursa Major which, with careful measurements of their orbits, he was able to deduce was actually a triple system with a third star which was too faint to observe. This fine piece of theoretical and observational work led to his appointment as an assistant at the Astronomical Observatory at the University of Copenhagen, working under Thiele who was the director. In addition to spending considerable time observing star positions and proper motions of stars, Norlund also undertook research in mathematics. In 1907 he was awarded a gold medal for an essay on continued fractions and his resulting two publications were in 1908: Sur les différences réciproques; and Sur la convergence des fractions continues both published in Comptes Rendus de l'Academie des Sciences. These publications in the most prestigious French journal earned Norlund an international reputation despite still being an undergraduate. In the summer of 1910 he earned a Master's degree in astronomy and in October of that year he successfully defended his doctoral thesis in mathematics Bidrag til de lineaere differentialligningers Theori. In the same year he published the 100-page paper Fractions continues et différences réciproques as well as Sur les fractions continues d'interpolation, a paper on Halley's comet, and an obituary of his teacher Thorvald Thiele. Bang writes of Norlund's doctoral thesis [1]:- The thesis is the beginning of the penetrating study of difference equations that he accomplished in the following 15 years. The problem in difference equations is to find general methods for determining a function when the size of its increase on intervals of a given length is known. We explained at the beginning of this biography how Norlund's sister Margrethe married Niels Bohr. Of course Niels Bohr was the brother of the outstanding mathematician Harald Bohr who was a close friend of Norlund; for example each read the proofs of the others doctoral thesis. Following the award of his doctorate, Norlund remained at Copenhagen for two years continuing to work as an assistant at the Observatory. In 1912 he was appointed to a new chair of mathematics at the university in Lund in Sweden. In the same year he married Agnete Waever; they had two daughters. He held the chair at Lund for ten years and during this time he left his interest in astronomy and concentrated entirely on research in mathematics. Bang explains the main aspects of this research in [1]:- ... a long series of papers developing the theory of difference equations. He studied the factorial series and interpolation series entering in their solutions, determining their region of convergence and by analytic prolongation and different summation methods he extended them in the complex plane, determining their singularities and their behaviour at infinity, also by use of their relations to continued fractions and asymptotic series. In particular the little paper 'Sur une application des fonctions permutables' from 1919 should be mentioned: there he states some universal results on the summability of series based on a specific - but rather general - choice of the weights given to the elements; the method includes the better of the known summability methods, such as Cesaro's method, and is now known under the standard designation of Norlund-summation. With a high international profile, Norlund was elected to the Danish Academy of Sciences in 1916. In the same year he became a member of the editorial staff of Acta mathematica, the journal founded and run by Mittag-Leffler. He was one of only five plenary speakers invited to address the 1920 International Congress of Mathematicians at Strasbourg. There he gave the lecture Sur les équations aux différences finies. Now it was important to attract such a high profile Danish mathematician back to Denmark, but with Copenhagen the only Danish university, and only two mathematics chairs at that university, the possibilities were very limited. To solve this situation a third mathematics chair was created at the University of Copenhagen and Norlund invited to fill it. He accepted and took up his new position in September 1922. He published the important book Vorlesungen über Differenzenrechnung in 1924. R D Carmichael writes in a review [4]:- This is the first book to develop the theory of the difference calculus from the function-theoretic point of view and to include a significant part of the recent researches having to do with the analytic and asymptotic character of the solutions of linear difference equations. As such it is an important contribution to the mathematical literature and will render a service not procurable from any of its predecessors. The author presents a connected account of what appears to him to be the most important and the best developed domains of the difference calculus. The book is intended to give a preliminary view of the field and to facilitate the reading of the original memoirs. With this purpose in view the author sometimes omits proofs (too frequently, we think) leaving the reader to find them in the indicated memoirs. Events conspired to stop Norlund carrying out mathematical research during the thirty years he held the mathematics chair in Copenhagen. There were administrative duties at the university, administrative tasks related to the Danish Academy of Sciences but, most significantly, he was persuaded to take up the post of Director of Den danske Gradmaaling, the Danish institution responsible for geodesic surveys. He took on this role with enthusiasm, using the skills he had acquired during his earlier role in the Observatory. He introduced new courses at the university and established a Master's Degree in geodesy. He also studied seismology and, in 1925, set up seismographic stations in Denmark and Greenland. In 1928 he persuaded the Danish government to set up a Geodesic Institute, combining the Gradmaalingen and the Danish ordinance survey. He was appointed as director [1]:- Here he could wholly use his capacity for organizing work, exacting a combination on a high level of mathematics, astronomy, physics and mechanics. Besides the necessary updating of the ordnance maps of Denmark, he put into operation new more precise triangulations and measurement of the matching new baselines and new astronomical determinations. During World War II, the German armies invaded Denmark and although for a while the country was allowed to remain a sovereign state, eventually Germans took over complete control. The Geodesic Institute could not continue with its work, but Norland used the opportunity to produce a series of atlases, detailing the history of the mapping of Denmark, the Faroe Islands and Iceland. They were produced using the resources of the Institute and are truly beautiful works, highly sought after today. Also during World War II he published a number of mathematics papers such as Ausgleichung nach der Methode der kleinsten Quadrate bei gruppenweiser Anordnung der Beobachtungen (1940) and Determination of the weights for the unknowns in graduation of elements (Danish) (1943). In 1955 Norland reached retirement age. That mathematics was his first love now became clear, for once he gave up the responsibilities of the Geodesic Institute he returned to mathematics research. He published Hypergeometric functions in 1955 which was reviewed by Arthur Erdélyi:- This is one of those rare papers in which sound mathematics goes hand in hand with excellent exposition and style; and the reader is both instructed and delighted. It is likely to become the standard memoir on the generalized hypergeometric series ... The paper Sur les fonctions hypergéométriques d'ordre supérieur (1956) gives a very full, rigorous and classical treatment of some integrals from generalized hypergeometric function theory. Let us give one further example of the papers Norland published after he retired. This is The logarithmic solutions of the hypergeometric equation (1963) which was reviewed by L J Slater:- In this important paper the author discusses in a clear and detailed way the complete logarithmic solutions of the hypergeometric differential equation satisfied by the Gauss function ... Complete tables are given of the linear and quadratic relations which hold between the various solutions in every possible special case. Tables are also given for the continuation formulae which hold between the logarithmic and other cases of Riemann's P-function, and the paper concludes with a very clear statement of the logarithmic solutions of the confluent hypergeometric equation satisfied by Kummer's function ... Norlund received a large number of honours for his contributions to mathematics and to geodesy. He was elected to the Det kongelige danske Videnskabernes Selskab (1916), the Société des Sciences, Strasbourg (1920), the Accademia Pontaniana, Napoli (1925), the Kungliga Vetenskapsakademien, Stockholm (1925), the Societas scientiarum Fennica, Helsinki (1926), the Académie des Sciences, Paris (1926), the Accademia Nazionale dei Lincei, Roma (1927), the Deutsche Akademie der Naturforscher, Halle (1927), the Royal Astronomical Society, London (1935), the Bureau des Longitudes, Paris (1937), the Royal Society, London (1938), the Akademiet for de tekniske Videnskaber, Kobenhavn (1939), the Norwegian Academy of Science and Letters, Oslo (1946), the Vetenskapsakademien, Helsinki (1946), the Det kungliga vetenskapliga Sallskapet, Uppsala (1951), the Societas scientiarum Islandica, Reykjavik (1959), and the New York Academy of Sciences (1960). He received the Grand Prix of the Académie des Sciences, Paris (1916), the Kungliga Fysiografiska Sallskapets Gold Medal (1916), the Ole Romer Medal (1954), and the Vitus Bering Medal (1958). Finally let us look at Norlund's character [1]:- Nobody who met Norlund could doubt that he was a great personality, a conclusion in keeping also with his tall aristocratic stature. He was a man of few words, not immediately obliging to strangers, and even his closer collaborators often felt his taciturnity embarrassing. This coolness could be felt as an aloofness; maybe it was due to some sort of shyness, but on the other hand his words thus gained more importance and one could feel how he exerted himself to find the right solution to problems. Students or employees who came closer to him could rejoice at his warm-hearted interest, but as an administrator he could be severe. Maybe that was necessary in his position ... Article by: J J O'Connor and E F Robertson Niels Erik Nørlund's Timeline | 1885 | October 26, 1885 | Slagelse, Sjælland, Danmark (Denmark) | | | 1981 | July 4, 1981 Age 95 | København, Hovedstaden, Danmark (Denmark) |


--- [Niels Erik Nørlund - Wikipedia] ---
Niels Erik Nørlund  (26 October 1885, in Slagelse – 4 July 1981, in Copenhagen) was a Danish mathematician.
His book Vorlesungen über Differenzenrechnung (1924, reprinted 1954) was the first book on complex function solutions of difference equations. His doctoral students include Georg Rasch.
The Norlund Alps and Norlund Land in Greenland were named after him.
He was also the brother of Margrethe Nørlund Bohr and brother-in-law of Nobel Prize winning physicist Niels Bohr.


--- [Pat'sBlog: On This Day in Math - October 26] ---
There are no foolish questions and no man becomes a fool until he has stopped asking questions. Charles P Steinmetz The 299th day of the year; If a cubic cake was cut with 12 straight cuts, it can produce a maximum of 299 pieces.... a good day to "let 'em eat cake." There are 299 composite numbers less than 1000 which are products of two primes. 1676 Newton, through the intermediary of Oldenburg, wrote Leibniz concerning his work on the calculus. An anagram contained the statement of the problem of integrating differential equations. *VFR 1738 Theophilus Grew, Mathematician advertises his availability for all manner of mathematical instruction in the Philadelphia Gazette. "Forasmuch as Mathematical Learning is (and has been in all Ages) promoted in most Parts of the World especially in all great Towns, and generally pursued by the Gentry and those of the first Rank, as a necessary Qualification; it is to be hoped that this flourishing City will follow the Example and give it such Encouragement as it justly deserves.Grew would go on to become the first professor of mathematics at the Univ of Pennsylvania when it was founded. *Natl. Archives In order to which there will be taught this Winter, over against Mr. James Steel’s in Second-Street, Philadelphia; Reading, Writing, Vulgar Arithmetick, Decimal Arithmetick, Accompts, Euclid’s Elements, Practical Geometry, Mensuration, Gauging, Surveying, Algebra, Trigonometry, Geography, Navigation, Astronomy, Dialing, Projection of the Sphere, the Use of Globes, Maps, Quadrants, Scales, sliding Rules, and all other Instruments for the Mathematical Service, by Theophilus Grew, Mathematician." 1818 Thomas Jefferson writes Nathaniel Bowditch to offer him the Math Professorship at the newly forming University of Virginia I have stated that where men of the 1st. order of science in their line can be found in our country, we shall give them a willing preference. we are satisfied that we can get from no country a professor of higher qualifications than yourself for our Mathematical department, and we entertain the hope and with great anxiety that you will accept of it. the house for that Professorship will be ready at midsummer next or soon after, when we should wish that school to be opened. I know the prejudices of every state against the climates of all those South of itself: but i know also that the candid traveller advancing Southwardly, to a certain degree at least, sees that they are more prejudices, and that the real advantages of climate are in the middle & temperate states, and especially when above their tide waters.*Letters of Thomas Jefferson, http://etext.lib.virginia.edu 1843 John T Graves replies to Hamilton about the invention of Quaternions, "There is something in the system which gravels me. I have not yet any clear views as to the extent to which we are at liberty arbitrarily to create imaginaries, and to endow them with supernatural properties.", "If with your alchemy you can create three pounds of gold, why should you stop there? Graves is credited by Hamilton with being a critical inspiration in the Quaternions, and would quickly go on to liberty to create imaginaries himself and create the "Octaves", an eight dimensional normed division algebra. Why should you stop there indeed? *Joan Baez Rankin Lecture of September 17, 2008 Glascow 1847 William Whewell wrote to Aubrey De Vere expressing dismay at the influence of Carlyle's pessimism among his friends and in society. *@GalileosBalls, Twitter 1896 Comptes Rendus publishes, "Extension of the Reimann-Roch Theorem to Algebraic Surfaces. A note by M. M. Noether, presented by M. Hermite *Mathematical Intellignecer vol 8 #4 1893 Karl Pearson’s ﬁrst statistical publication. *VFR In Pearson' s first published statistical paper of 26 October 1893, he introduced the method of moments as a means of curve fitting asymmetrical distributions. One of his aims in developing the method of moments was to provide a general method for determining the values of the parameters of a frequency distribution. *StatProb web site 1960 Saga, a silent shoot-em-up Western playlet made on the TX-0 computer, was run on CBS' special for MIT's 100th anniversary. The TX-0 was the first general purpose transistorized computer. The program for Saga comprised 4,096 words of magnetic core storage. The 13,000 lines of code choreographed the movements of each object. A line of direction was written for each action, even if it went wrong. This led to the high point of the show where sheriff put his gun in the holster of the robber resulting in a never ending loop. Doug Ross explained the rule-based diagram: If the robber drank from alcohol, his judgement would start to decline, but the program would remain logical.*CHM 1846 Lewis Boss (26 Oct 1846; 12 Oct 1912) American astronomer best known for his compilation of two catalogues of stars (1910, 1937). In 1882 he led an expedition to Chile to observe a transit of Venus. About 1895 Boss began to plan a general catalog of stars, giving their positions and motions. After 1906, the project had support from the Carnegie Institution, Washington, D.C. With an enlarged staff he observed the northern stars from Albany and the southern stars from Argentina. With the new data, he corrected catalogs that had been compiled in the past, and in 1910 he published the Preliminary General Catalogue of 6,188 Stars for the Epoch 1900. The work unfinished upon his death was completed by his son Benjamin in 1937 (General Catalogue of 33,342 Stars for the Epoch 1950, 5 vol.)*TIS 1849 Georg Frobenius (26 Oct 1849; 3 Aug 1917) German mathematician who made major contributions to group theory, especially the concept of abstract groups (with Ludwig Stickleberger) and the theory of finite groups of linear substitutions (with Issai Schur), that later found important uses in the theory of finite groups as it applies to quantum mechanics. He also contributed to means of solving linear homogenous differential equations. The fact so many of Frobenius's papers read like present day text-books on the topics which he studied is a clear indication of the importance that his work, in many different areas, has had in shaping the mathematics which is studied today.*TIS 1877 Max Mason (26 Oct 1877; 23 Mar 1961) American mathematical physicist, educator, and science administrator. During World War I he invented several devices for submarine detection - several generations of the Navy's "M," or multiple-tube, passive submarine sensors. This apparatus focused sound to ascertain its source. To determine the direction from which the sound came, the operator needed only to seek the maximum output on his earphones by turning a dial. The final device had a range of 3 miles. Mason's special interest and contributions lay in mathematics (differential equations, calculus of variations), physics (electromagnetic theory), invention (acoustical compensators, submarine-detection devices), and the administration of universities and foundations. *TIS 1885 Niels Erik Norlund (26 Oct 1885 in Slagelse, near Soro, Sjaelland, Denmark - 4 July 1981 in Copenhagen, Denmark) In 1907 he was awarded a gold medal for an essay on continued fractions and his resulting two publications were in 1908: Sur les différences réciproques; and Sur la convergence des fractions continues both published in Comptes Rendus de l'Academie des Sciences. These publications in the most prestigious French journal earned Norlund an international reputation despite still being an undergraduate. In the summer of 1910 he earned a Master's degree in astronomy and in October of that year he successfully defended his doctoral thesis in mathematics Bidrag til de lineaere differentialligningers Theori. In the same year he published the 100-page paper Fractions continues et différences réciproques as well as Sur les fractions continues d'interpolation, a paper on Halley's comet, and an obituary of his teacher Thorvald Thiele. Norlund's sister Margrethe married Niels Bohr whose brother, Harald, was also an outstanding mathematician. In 1955 Norland reached retirement age. That mathematics was his first love now became clear, for once he gave up the responsibilities of the Geodesic Institute he returned to mathematics research. He published Hypergeometric functions in 1955 which was reviewed by Arthur Erdélyi, "This is one of those rare papers in which sound mathematics goes hand in hand with excellent exposition and style; and the reader is both instructed and delighted. It is likely to become the standard memoir on the generalized hypergeometric series ... " The paper Sur les fonctions hypergéométriques d'ordre supérieur (1956) gives a very full, rigorous and classical treatment of some integrals from generalized hypergeometric function theory.*SAU 1902 Henrietta Hill Swope(26 October 1902; Saint Louis, Missouri - 24 November 1980; Pasadena, California)was an American astronomer. She was the eldest child of Gerard and Mary Dayton (Hill) Swope; her mother was the daughter of Thomas Hill, president of Harvard University, 1862-1868. She received her A.B. from Barnard College in 1926 and her A.M. from Radcliffe College in 1928. In 1936, while assistant at the Harvard Observatory (1928-1942), she was a member of the expedition sent jointly by the Harvard Observatory and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology to study the solar eclipse in Soviet Central Asia. During World War II she was staff member of the M.I.T. Radiation Laboratory and then served as a mathematician in the Hydrographic Office of the U.S. Department of the Navy. From 1947 to 1952 she taught astronomy at Barnard College and in 1952 was appointed assistant, later research fellow, at the Mt. Wilson and Palomar Observatories in California. After her retirement in 1968, she continued to work at the Observatories. HHS was a member of the American Astronomical Society; she received the AAS Annie Jump Cannon Prize in 1968 for her research on photometry and variable stars. She was responsible for developing a new yardstick for measuring the universe: calibrating distance by determining the brightness of stars. She received the Distinguished Alumna Award of Barnard College in 1975 and the Barnard Medal of Distinction in 1980. The Swope Telescope at the Las Campanas Observatory in Chile is named in her honor, as is asteroid 2168 Swope. 1911 Shiing-shen Chern (26 Oct 1911; 3 Dec 2004) Chinese-American mathematician and educator whose researches in differential geometry include the development of the Chern characteristic classes in fibre spaces, which play a major role in mathematics and in mathematical physics. "When Chern was working on differential geometry in the 1940s, this area of mathematics was at a low point. Global differential geometry was only beginning, even Morse theory was understood and used by a very small number of people. Today, differential geometry is a major subject in mathematics and a large share of the credit for this transformation goes to Professor Chern." *TIS 1930 Walter Feit (26 Oct 1930 in Vienna, Austria - 29 July 2004 in Branford, Connecticut, USA) was an Austrian mathematician who (with John Thompson) proved one of the most important theorems about finite simple groups. In 1990 his 60th birthday was celebrated with an 'International Symposium on the Inverse Galois Problem' held in Oxford. His retirement from Yale in October 2003 was marked with the holding of a 'Conference on Groups, Representations and Galois Theory' in his honour. Feit died after a long illness at the Connecticut Hospice in Branford, Connecticut, USA. A memorial service was held on Sunday 10 October 2004 at the New Haven Lawn Club, New Haven, Connecticut. *SAU 1817 Aida Yasuaki was a Japanese mathematician who published about 2000 works. Aida compiled Sampo tensi shinan which appeared in 1788. It is a book of geometry problems, developing formulae for ellipses, spheres, circles etc. Aida explained the use of algebraic expressions and the construction of equations. He also worked on number theory and simplified continued fraction methods due to Seki. *SAU 1923 Charles Proteus Steinmetz (9 Apr 1865- 26 Oct 1923) German-born American inventor and electrical engineer whose theories and mathematical analysis of alternating current systems helped establish them as the preferred form of electrical energy in the United States, and throughout the world. In 1893, Steinmetz joined the newly organized General Electric Company where he was an engineer then consultant until his death. His early research on hysteresis (loss of power due to magnetic resistance) led him to study alternating current, which could eliminate hysteresis loss in motors. He did extensive new work on the theory of a.c. for electrical engineers to use. His last research was on lightning, and its threat to the new AC power lines. He was responsible for the expansion of the electric power industry in the U.S. *TIS 1968 Sergei Natanovich Bernstein (March 5, 1880 – October 26, 1968) was a Russian and Soviet mathematician. His doctoral dissertation, submitted in 1904 to the Sorbonne, solved Hilbert's nineteenth problem on the analytic solution of elliptic differential equations. Later, he published numerous works on Probability theory, Constructive function theory, and mathematical foundations of genetics. From 1906 until 1933, Bernstein was a member of the Kharkov Mathematical Society. *Wik 1970 Marcel Gilles Jozef Minnaert (12 Feb 1893; 26 Oct 1970 at age 77) Flemish astronomer and solar physicist who was one of the pioneering solar researchers during the first half of the 20th century. Applying solar spectrophotometry, he was one of the first to make quantitative measurements of the intensity distribution inside Fraunhofer lines, and interpret from them information about the outer solar layers. His range of study also included comets, nebulae and lunar photometry. During the time he was director of the observatory at the University of Utrecht, (1937-1963) he created a modern astronomical institute to study solar and stellar spectra with resources including a solar telescope, spectrograph, photometer, and mechanical workshop. Minnaert also maintained a strong interest in the education of physics teachers, and as a univeristy professor gave clear, enthusiastic and well-prepared lectures. *TIS 1983 Alfred Tarski (14 Jan 1902, 26 Oct 1983) Polish-born American mathematician and logician who made important studies of general algebra, measure theory, mathematical logic, set theory, and metamathematics. Formal scientific languages can be subjected to more thorough study by the semantic method that he developed. He worked on model theory, mathematical decision problems and with universal algebra. He produced axioms for "logical consequence", worked on deductive systems, the algebra of logic and the theory of definability. Group theorists study 'Tarski monsters', infinite groups whose existence seems intuitively impossible. *TIS 1984 Mark Kac (3 Aug 1914 in Krzemieniec, Poland, Russian Empire - 26 Oct 1984 in California, USA) pioneered the modern development of mathematical probability, in particular its applications to statistical physics. The method of quantization now in use involves the Feynman-Kac path integral, named after Richard Feynman and Mark Kac. He published a classic text Statistical Independence in Probability, Analysis and Number Theory in 1959. To many Kac will be remembered best for a paper he wrote for the American Mathematical Monthly in 1966. This is the famous paper Can One Hear the Shape of a Drum? and Kac received the Chauvenet Prize from the Mathematical Association of America in 1968 for the, "most outstanding expository article on a mathematical topic by a member of the Association." *SAU 1998 Kenkichi Iwasawa (11 Sept 1917 in Shinshuku-mura (near Kiryu), Gumma Prefecture, Japan - 26 Oct 1998 in Tokyo, Japan ) In the late 1960s Iwasawa made a conjecture for algebraic number fields which, in some sense, was the analogue of the relationship which Weil had found between the zeta function and the divisor class group of an algebraic function field. This conjecture became known as "the main conjecture on cyclotomic fields" and it remained one of the most outstanding conjectures in algebraic number theory until it was solved by Mazur and Wiles in 1984 using modular curves. "it is no exaggeration to say that Iwasawa's ideas have played a pivotal role in many of the finest achievements of modern arithmetical algebraic geometry on such questions as the conjecture of B Birch and H Swinnerton-Dyer on elliptic curve; the conjecture of B Birch, J Tate, and S Lichtenbaum on the orders of the K-groups of the rings of integers of number fields; and the work of A Wiles on the modularity of elliptic curves and Fermat's Last Theorem." *SAU Credits : *CHM=Computer History Museum *FFF=Kane, Famous First Facts *NSEC= NASA Solar Eclipse Calendar *RMAT= The Renaissance Mathematicus, Thony Christie *SAU=St Andrews Univ. Math History *TIA = Today in Astronomy *TIS= Today in Science History *VFR = V Frederick Rickey, USMA *Wik = Wikipedia *WM = Women of Mathematics, Grinstein & Campbell


--- [Niels Erik Norlund] ---
تاريخ الرياضيات الاعداد و نظريتها تاريخ التحليل تار يخ الجبر الهندسة و التبلوجي الرياضيات في الحضارات المختلفة العربية اليونانية البابلية الصينية المايا المصرية الهندية الرياضيات المتقطعة المنطق اسس الرياضيات فلسفة الرياضيات مواضيع عامة في المنطق الجبر الجبر الخطي الجبر المجرد الجبر البولياني مواضيع عامة في الجبر الضبابية نظرية المجموعات نظرية الزمر نظرية الحلقات والحقول نظرية الاعداد نظرية الفئات حساب المتجهات المتتاليات-المتسلسلات المصفوفات و نظريتها المثلثات الهندسة الهندسة المستوية الهندسة غير المستوية مواضيع عامة في الهندسة التفاضل و التكامل المعادلات التفاضلية و التكاملية معادلات تفاضلية معادلات تكاملية مواضيع عامة في المعادلات التحليل التحليل العددي التحليل العقدي التحليل الدالي مواضيع عامة في التحليل التحليل الحقيقي التبلوجيا نظرية الالعاب الاحتمالات و الاحصاء نظرية التحكم بحوث العمليات نظرية الكم الشفرات الرياضيات التطبيقية نظريات ومبرهنات علماء الرياضيات 500AD 500-1499 1000to1499 1500to1599 1600to1649 1650to1699 1700to1749 1750to1779 1780to1799 1800to1819 1820to1829 1830to1839 1840to1849 1850to1859 1860to1864 1865to1869 1870to1874 1875to1879 1880to1884 1885to1889 1890to1894 1895to1899 1900to1904 1905to1909 1910to1914 1915to1919 1920to1924 1925to1929 1930to1939 1940to the present علماء الرياضيات الرياضيات في العلوم الاخرى بحوث و اطاريح جامعية هل تعلم طرائق التدريس الرياضيات العامة نظرية البيان Niels Erik Norlund المؤلف: T Bang المصدر: Niels Erik Norlund in memoriam, Acta Math. 161 (1-2) (1988) الجزء والصفحة: ... 13-6-2017 16252 Died: 4 July 1981 in Copenhagen, Denmark Niels Norlund's father was Alfred Norlund who ran the pharmacy in the small town of Slagelse. Niels was the oldest of his parents' three children, having a younger sister Margrethe and a younger brother Poul. Margrethe is mentioned elsewhere in this archive as the wife of Niels Bohr who she married on 1 August 1912. Poul became a famous archaeologist and director of the National Museum in Copenhagen. Niels attended elementary school in Slagelse but then had to go to the larger nearby town of Soro for his secondary schooling. He attended the excellent Soro Academy, completing his school education in 1903. At school Norlund had loved mathematics and astronomy. When he entered the University of Copenhagen in 1903, he was still undecided as to which subject he should specialise in. So, he did the sensible thing and studied both subjects. Norlund had a number of lecturers with international reputations: for example he was taught mathematics by Hieronymus Georg Zeuthen, Julius Petersen, and Niels Nielsen; and astronomy by Thorvald Thiele. Norlund was most attracted by the vigorous Niels Nielsen, who lectured on the theory of functions, and by Thorvald Thiele whose interests in astronomy were mainly on orbits and the three-body problem. Norlund's first publication was in 1905 when he published a paper on a known double star in Ursa Major which, with careful measurements of their orbits, he was able to deduce was actually a triple system with a third star which was too faint to observe. This fine piece of theoretical and observational work led to his appointment as an assistant at the Astronomical Observatory at the University of Copenhagen, working under Thiele who was the director. In addition to spending considerable time observing star positions and proper motions of stars, Norlund also undertook research in mathematics. In 1907 he was awarded a gold medal for an essay on continued fractions and his resulting two publications were in 1908: Sur les différences réciproques; and Sur la convergence des fractions continues both published in Comptes Rendus de l'Academie des Sciences. These publications in the most prestigious French journal earned Norlund an international reputation despite still being an undergraduate. In the summer of 1910 he earned a Master's degree in astronomy and in October of that year he successfully defended his doctoral thesis in mathematics Bidrag til de lineaere differentialligningers Theori. In the same year he published the 100-page paper Fractions continues et différences réciproques as well as Sur les fractions continues d'interpolation, a paper on Halley's comet, and an obituary of his teacher Thorvald Thiele. Bang writes of Norlund's doctoral thesis [1]:- The thesis is the beginning of the penetrating study of difference equations that he accomplished in the following 15 years. The problem in difference equations is to find general methods for determining a function when the size of its increase on intervals of a given length is known. We explained at the beginning of this biography how Norlund's sister Margrethe married Niels Bohr. Of course Niels Bohr was the brother of the outstanding mathematician Harald Bohr who was a close friend of Norlund; for example each read the proofs of the others doctoral thesis. Following the award of his doctorate, Norlund remained at Copenhagen for two years continuing to work as an assistant at the Observatory. In 1912 he was appointed to a new chair of mathematics at the university in Lund in Sweden. In the same year he married Agnete Waever; they had two daughters. He held the chair at Lund for ten years and during this time he left his interest in astronomy and concentrated entirely on research in mathematics. Bang explains the main aspects of this research in [1]:- ... a long series of papers developing the theory of difference equations. He studied the factorial series and interpolation series entering in their solutions, determining their region of convergence and by analytic prolongation and different summation methods he extended them in the complex plane, determining their singularities and their behaviour at infinity, also by use of their relations to continued fractions and asymptotic series. In particular the little paper 'Sur une application des fonctions permutables' from 1919 should be mentioned: there he states some universal results on the summability of series based on a specific - but rather general - choice of the weights given to the elements; the method includes the better of the known summability methods, such as Cesaro's method, and is now known under the standard designation of Norlund-summation. With a high international profile, Norlund was elected to the Danish Academy of Sciences in 1916. In the same year he became a member of the editorial staff of Acta mathematica, the journal founded and run by Mittag-Leffler. He was one of only five plenary speakers invited to address the 1920 International Congress of Mathematicians at Strasbourg. There he gave the lecture Sur les équations aux différences finies. Now it was important to attract such a high profile Danish mathematician back to Denmark, but with Copenhagen the only Danish university, and only two mathematics chairs at that university, the possibilities were very limited. To solve this situation a third mathematics chair was created at the University of Copenhagen and Norlund invited to fill it. He accepted and took up his new position in September 1922. He published the important book Vorlesungen über Differenzenrechnung in 1924. R D Carmichael writes in a review [4]:- This is the first book to develop the theory of the difference calculus from the function-theoretic point of view and to include a significant part of the recent researches having to do with the analytic and asymptotic character of the solutions of linear difference equations. As such it is an important contribution to the mathematical literature and will render a service not procurable from any of its predecessors. The author presents a connected account of what appears to him to be the most important and the best developed domains of the difference calculus. The book is intended to give a preliminary view of the field and to facilitate the reading of the original memoirs. With this purpose in view the author sometimes omits proofs (too frequently, we think) leaving the reader to find them in the indicated memoirs. Events conspired to stop Norlund carrying out mathematical research during the thirty years he held the mathematics chair in Copenhagen. There were administrative duties at the university, administrative tasks related to the Danish Academy of Sciences but, most significantly, he was persuaded to take up the post of Director of Den danske Gradmaaling, the Danish institution responsible for geodesic surveys. He took on this role with enthusiasm, using the skills he had acquired during his earlier role in the Observatory. He introduced new courses at the university and established a Master's Degree in geodesy. He also studied seismology and, in 1925, set up seismographic stations in Denmark and Greenland. In 1928 he persuaded the Danish government to set up a Geodesic Institute, combining the Gradmaalingen and the Danish ordinance survey. He was appointed as director [1]:- Here he could wholly use his capacity for organizing work, exacting a combination on a high level of mathematics, astronomy, physics and mechanics. Besides the necessary updating of the ordnance maps of Denmark, he put into operation new more precise triangulations and measurement of the matching new baselines and new astronomical determinations. During World War II, the German armies invaded Denmark and although for a while the country was allowed to remain a sovereign state, eventually Germans took over complete control. The Geodesic Institute could not continue with its work, but Norland used the opportunity to produce a series of atlases, detailing the history of the mapping of Denmark, the Faroe Islands and Iceland. They were produced using the resources of the Institute and are truly beautiful works, highly sought after today. Also during World War II he published a number of mathematics papers such as Ausgleichung nach der Methode der kleinsten Quadrate bei gruppenweiser Anordnung der Beobachtungen (1940) and Determination of the weights for the unknowns in graduation of elements (Danish) (1943). In 1955 Norland reached retirement age. That mathematics was his first love now became clear, for once he gave up the responsibilities of the Geodesic Institute he returned to mathematics research. He published Hypergeometric functions in 1955 which was reviewed by Arthur Erdélyi:- This is one of those rare papers in which sound mathematics goes hand in hand with excellent exposition and style; and the reader is both instructed and delighted. It is likely to become the standard memoir on the generalized hypergeometric series ... The paper Sur les fonctions hypergéométriques d'ordre supérieur (1956) gives a very full, rigorous and classical treatment of some integrals from generalized hypergeometric function theory. Let us give one further example of the papers Norland published after he retired. This is The logarithmic solutions of the hypergeometric equation (1963) which was reviewed by L J Slater:- In this important paper the author discusses in a clear and detailed way the complete logarithmic solutions of the hypergeometric differential equation satisfied by the Gauss function ... Complete tables are given of the linear and quadratic relations which hold between the various solutions in every possible special case. Tables are also given for the continuation formulae which hold between the logarithmic and other cases of Riemann's P-function, and the paper concludes with a very clear statement of the logarithmic solutions of the confluent hypergeometric equation satisfied by Kummer's function ... Norlund received a large number of honours for his contributions to mathematics and to geodesy. He was elected to the Det kongelige danske Videnskabernes Selskab (1916), the Société des Sciences, Strasbourg (1920), the Accademia Pontaniana, Napoli (1925), the Kungliga Vetenskapsakademien, Stockholm (1925), the Societas scientiarum Fennica, Helsinki (1926), the Académie des Sciences, Paris (1926), the Accademia Nazionale dei Lincei, Roma (1927), the Deutsche Akademie der Naturforscher, Halle (1927), the Royal Astronomical Society, London (1935), the Bureau des Longitudes, Paris (1937), the Royal Society, London (1938), the Akademiet for de tekniske Videnskaber, Kobenhavn (1939), the Norwegian Academy of Science and Letters, Oslo (1946), the Vetenskapsakademien, Helsinki (1946), the Det kungliga vetenskapliga Sallskapet, Uppsala (1951), the Societas scientiarum Islandica, Reykjavik (1959), and the New York Academy of Sciences (1960). He received the Grand Prix of the Académie des Sciences, Paris (1916), the Kungliga Fysiografiska Sallskapets Gold Medal (1916), the Ole Romer Medal (1954), and the Vitus Bering Medal (1958). Finally let us look at Norlund's character [1]:- Nobody who met Norlund could doubt that he was a great personality, a conclusion in keeping also with his tall aristocratic stature. He was a man of few words, not immediately obliging to strangers, and even his closer collaborators often felt his taciturnity embarrassing. This coolness could be felt as an aloofness; maybe it was due to some sort of shyness, but on the other hand his words thus gained more importance and one could feel how he exerted himself to find the right solution to problems. Students or employees who came closer to him could rejoice at his warm-hearted interest, but as an administrator he could be severe. Maybe that was necessary in his position ... Articles: - T Bang, Niels Erik Norlund. 26 October 1885-4 July 1981, Biographical Memoirs of Fellows of the Royal Society 29 (1983), 481-493. - T Bang, Niels Erik Norlund in memoriam, Acta Math. 161 (1-2) (1988), 11-22. - L Carleson and L Garding, Obituary of Niels Erik Norlund, Acta Math. 148 (1982), 1. - R D Carmichael, Review: Vorlesungen über Differenzenrechnung by Niels Erik Norlund, Bull. Amer. Math. Soc. 31 (8) (1925), 445-449. - H Cartan, Niels Erik Norlund (French), C. R. Acad. Sci. Paris Vie Académique 297 (1983), suppl. 9, 17.
