=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Murray Nicoll - Wikipedia]
August 23, 2023 -Murray Nicoll(20 July 1943– 2 May 2010) was an Australian journalist and broadcaster whose career spanned more than 45 years. He was best known for providing reports on 5DN radio from his own burning home during the Ash Wednesday fires of 1983.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Murray_Nicoll

[Ash Wednesday bushfires - Wikipedia]
December 20, 2025 -Murray Nicoll, a journalist from radio station 5DN and resident of the Adelaide Hills, reported live from his local area where five people died: At the moment, I'm watching my house burn down. I'm sitting out on the road in front of my own house where I've lived for 13 or 14 years and it's going down in front of me.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ash_Wednesday_bushfires

[Ash Wednesday - History Hub]
July 4, 2024 -One exception was radio reporter Murray Nicoll, who gave a heartbreaking interview live via walkie talkie as he watched his home of 13-14 years burn down. Of the 28 lives lost seventeen were volunteer fire fighters, three of whom served with the Country Fire Service (CFS). There were reports of CFS trucks that failed in action, and the speed of the fire also exposed significant problems in communication. An earlier Ash Wednesday fire in 1980 (the fires in 1980 and 1983 fell on the day of that name in the Christian calendar of Lent,) had provided some warning.
URL: https://sahistoryhub.history.sa.gov.au/events/ash-wednesday/

[Journalist Murray Nicoll loses cancer fight - ABC News]
May 4, 2010 -He is best-remembered for winning a Walkley Award after he broadcast on Adelaide radio 5DN a harrowing Ash Wednesday bushfire report about his own house burning down as he sheltered from the firestorm. "The air is white with heat and smoke and it's red and there are women crying and there are women here and we are in trouble," he told listeners in a broadcast in 1983 which went on to be aired around the world. Nicoll, who was in his mid-60s, most recently worked for Channel Seven news.
URL: https://www.abc.net.au/news/419752

[30th anniversary of Ash Wednesday bushfires | SBS News]
February 24, 2015 -I'm watching my house burn down, the roof is falling in, it's in flames and there's nothing I can do about it." Murray Nicoll was lucky to survive Ash Wednesday and that broadcast saw him win his first Walkley award, the most prestigous for Australian journalism. When Nicoll died in 2010, South Australia's then Premier Mike Rann delivered a eulogy saying that even today the simple, stark clarity of the report by a journalist facing death is both chilling and compelling.
URL: https://www.sbs.com.au/news/article/30th-anniversary-of-ash-wednesday-bushfires/91b0cwoqq


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Murray Nicoll - Wikipedia] ---
Murray Nicoll (20 July 1943 – 2 May 2010) was an Australian journalist and broadcaster whose career spanned more than 45 years. He was best known for providing reports on 5DN radio from his own burning home during the Ash Wednesday fires of 1983. His reports on the fire and the destruction of his house earned Nicoll the 1983 Walkley Award for best radio news report.
Nicoll's resume in journalism included stints at The News, in Melbourne radio, including the top rating drive time program on 3AW, and ABC radio in Adelaide, Australia. He worked as a television reporter for Channel 7 during the last five years of his life. He earned the 1985 Walkley Award for best radio current affairs report for his radio broadcasts from an expedition to Mount Everest.
Nicoll died of leukaemia at his home on 2 May 2010, at the age of 66.
He was the uncle of Chris Nicoll, currently head of production for the Capital FM Network in the UK.


--- [Ash Wednesday bushfires - Wikipedia] ---
The Ash Wednesday bushfires, known in South Australia as Ash Wednesday II, were a series of bushfires that occurred in south-eastern Australia in 1983 on 16 February. Within twelve hours, more than 180 fires fanned by hot winds of up to 110 km/h (68 mph) caused widespread destruction across the states of Victoria and South Australia. Years of severe drought and extreme weather combined to create one of Australia's worst fire days in a century. The fires were the deadliest in Australian history until the Black Saturday bushfires in 2009.
75 people died as a result of the fires; 47 in Victoria, and 28 in South Australia. This included 14 Country Fire Authority and three Country Fire Service personnel, all 17 were volunteer firefighters. Many fatalities were as a result of firestorm conditions caused by a sudden and violent wind change in the evening which rapidly changed the direction and size of the fire front. The speed and ferocity of the flames, aided by abundant fuels and a landscape immersed in smoke, made fire suppression and containment impossible. In many cases, residents fended for themselves as fires broke communications, cut off escape routes and severed electricity and water supplies. Up to 8,000 people were evacuated in Victoria at the height of the crisis and a state of disaster was declared for the first time in South Australia's history. 
A 2001 report found Ash Wednesday to be one of Australia's worst fires. More than 3,700 buildings were destroyed or damaged and 2,545 individuals and families lost their homes. Livestock losses were very high, with more than 340,000 sheep, 18,000 cattle and numerous native animals either dead or later destroyed. A total of 4,540 insurance claims were paid totalling A$176 million with a total estimated cost of well over A$400 million (1983 values) for both states, equivalent to A$1.3 billion in 2007.
The emergency saw the largest number of volunteers called to duty from across Australia at the same time—an estimated 130,000 firefighters, defence force personnel, relief workers and support crews.


--- [Ash Wednesday - History Hub] ---
On 16 February 1983 more than 180 fires broke out across South Australia and Victoria. In South Australia the Adelaide Hills were worst affected. There were also fires in the South East, Eyre Peninsula, Mid-north, and McLaren Flat. Across the state over 200 000 hectares were burnt, 383 houses were destroyed, and 28 lives were lost. It was a disaster on such a grand scale that for the first time in South Australia’s history the State Government declared a State of Emergency. A hot, dry summer The days before Ash Wednesday were hot and dry. Australia was in the grip of a severe drought. On the day of the fires strong north-easterly winds and dust added to the discomfort of South Australians even before the fires ignited. Temperatures reached 43 degrees Celsius: humidity fell to less than 15%. There was a ‘Red Alert’ warning and total fire ban. Devastation Fires began sometime around noon and spread rapidly. The speed and size of the fires took many people by surprise. Numerous accounts from those attempting to protect property describe fire appearing minutes after the first warning had reached them. Low visibility due to dust and smoke left people feeling isolated and with little idea how far away the fires actually were. In a time before the instant communication of mobile phones and social media, the confusion surrounding what was happening exacerbated the situation. There was very little information making it through to areas outside the bushfires. Many Hills residents were stranded in traffic jams attempting to get home to defend their properties. One exception was radio reporter Murray Nicoll, who gave a heartbreaking interview live via walkie talkie as he watched his home of 13-14 years burn down. Of the 28 lives lost seventeen were volunteer fire fighters, three of whom served with the Country Fire Service (CFS). There were reports of CFS trucks that failed in action, and the speed of the fire also exposed significant problems in communication. An earlier Ash Wednesday fire in 1980 (the fires in 1980 and 1983 fell on the day of that name in the Christian calendar of Lent,) had provided some warning. There had been ongoing reviews and attempts to improve the CFS, which in the late 1970s replaced earlier volunteer fire fighting services. However, despite preparations over a number of years and many acts of heroism, the scale and severity of the 1983 fires proved, ultimately, that South Australians were unprepared for such a disaster. The aftermath A cool change and light rain saw the bulk of the fires contained by Thursday morning. The disaster was over, but the danger was far from past. Flare-ups and spotfires continued to challenge a weary volunteer firefighting force for weeks following 16 February. Productivity in the South East pastoral district was dealt a near fatal blow. Between damage to stock, fences and other property, rebuilding was to take significant time. In the Hills, apart from the tragic loss of life and homes, several long-established businesses were burnt down, including the Mount Lofty kiosk. Thirteen historic buildings were also destroyed – a significant loss to state heritage. In all financial damages were estimated at $204 million across South Australia. Bushfire management practice has changed significantly since the Ash Wednesday fires of 1983, and lessons learnt from that day have helped to shape those changes. CFS networks, and cooperation that proved effective, such as a crew from Cleve providing relief and support to the Burnside CFS, were used as a template for future plans. Disasters caused by problems with equipment and communication showed the importance of improvements in those areas. Aerial support has increased, cooperation across states has extended the capacity to respond, and advances in technology mean not only that communication has improved for fire fighters, but that residents have much better access to information, including through text message alerts and social media. Strategies have also changed significantly in relation to public safely, with an emphasis since on leaving early unless prepared. In 1983 Hills residents were advised to return and defend their properties. In the 2015 bushfires a consistent message from the South Australian Premier and all others reporting on the fires was that residents should leave, and that message was heard. While 27 homes were destroyed no lives were lost. Ash Wednesday remains a terrible spectre to those in South Australia who remember that time, but it also showed a strength and sense of community spirit that has not been forgotten.


--- [Journalist Murray Nicoll loses cancer fight - ABC News] ---
Journalist Murray Nicoll loses cancer fight Journalist and broadcaster Murray Nicoll has died after a fight with cancer. Nicoll worked in newspapers, radio and television, including with ABC Radio in Adelaide and 3AW in Melbourne. He is best-remembered for winning a Walkley Award after he broadcast on Adelaide radio 5DN a harrowing Ash Wednesday bushfire report about his own house burning down as he sheltered from the firestorm. "The air is white with heat and smoke and it's red and there are women crying and there are women here and we are in trouble," he told listeners in a broadcast in 1983 which went on to be aired around the world. Nicoll, who was in his mid-60s, most recently worked for Channel Seven news. Seven's Adelaide news director Terry Plane said Nicoll was a unique story teller. "The further he went into journalism, the more of a story teller he became," he said. "Murray's had a remarkable career in journalism across radio, print and television and I think everyone here at Seven feels privileged to have spent the last five years of his career with him." South Australian Premier Mike Rann paid tribute to Nicoll's long career. "Great journo. Great bloke. Honest. Liked a story with a twist but never twisted the story," Mr Rann said on Twitter.


--- [30th anniversary of Ash Wednesday bushfires | SBS News] ---
(Transcript from World News Australia Radio) Thirty years ago Australia suffered one of its worst natural disasters when bushfires swept across Victoria and South Australia.Wednesday, February the 16th, 1983 became known as Ash Wednesday, a day when 75 people lost their lives and more than 3000 homes were reduced to ashes. Eight days before the fatal bushfires, Melbourne went dark at 3 o'clock in the afternoon. On a blistering hot summer day during one the worst droughts in Australia's history, fierce winds stripped about 50 thousand tonnes of topsoil from Victoria's Mallee and created a huge dust cloud that made it all the way to the city. "The winds lifted what topsoil was remaining on the land into the air and carried it hundreds of kilometres into the city. For the farmers yet another heartache and for the people of Melbourne a graphic example of a drought many describe as the worst in living memory. Richard Willis, Eyewitness News. (Newsreader) It's estimated that the storm dumped one thousand tonnes of dust on Melbourne." Eight days later firefighters in South Australia and Victoria faced similar conditions. Temperatures in the 40s, intense winds and parched earth. More than one hundred fires swept across the two states that day blackening huge areas. In South Australia, journalist Murray Nicoll covered the fires in the Adelaide Hills for what was then the city's high-rating commercial talk station, 5DN. On the day he was fulfilling two roles- volunteer firefighter and reporter. In the pre-mobile phone era, Nicoll used an adapted walkie-talkie to file his reports. "The sky is red and then white, it's going crazy, the fire's jumped 150 feet high straight over the top of Greenhill Road. I'm watching my house burn down, the roof is falling in, it's in flames and there's nothing I can do about it." Murray Nicoll was lucky to survive Ash Wednesday and that broadcast saw him win his first Walkley award, the most prestigous for Australian journalism. When Nicoll died in 2010, South Australia's then Premier Mike Rann delivered a eulogy saying that even today the simple, stark clarity of the report by a journalist facing death is both chilling and compelling. In Victoria, journalist David Turnbull was working for Ten News on Ash Wednesday. He was given the task of covering the fires as they roared through the coastal towns of Angelesea and Lorne. "By this stage it was late in the afternoon and we had literally one chance to fly past and I had to just file a report from what I saw and then turn around to Lonsdale (Point Lonsdale) where a links van would be to send the pictures and my report back to have a chance to get it on air. (Turnbull's report from a helicopter) As we flew down the Ocean Road towards Lorne we came across smoke billowing thousands of metres into the air, the hills around the Pioneer Holiday Resort were absolutely ablaze, everywhere you look it seems the forest was alight. Road blocks further up the highway have kept traffic out of the area, we haven't got close to the township itself as yet but if anybody's trapped in there, God help them (fades) (Turnbull) It was basically, jump in the chopper, got down to Lorne, you've got one sweep past give us whatever you can, come back to Point Lonsdale and feed it out to get it to air, that was the scenario." David Turnbull says covering the Ash Wednesday fires saw him develop an appreciation for the work of Australia's volunteer firefighters. "It is a fight, you know, I mean they are firefighters, you know, and when, when flames get into an Aussie eucalypt forest, whipped up by you know strong winds and all that eucalyptus oil it is intense and it's no place for the faint hearted. There were times when we were driving on roads and there were flames going over the top of the car, from crest of tree to crest of tree across the top. It's not a place for the faint hearted and the courage of those guys and women is to be respected and I certainly respect it." After spending most of his journalistic career in Canberra covering federal politics, David Turnbull describes Ash Wednesday as one of his most memorable assignments. "The intensity of the fires, how widespread they were, the impact that it had on individuals and on communities, the community spirit in terms of people trying to help each other and rallying together and then, you know, pick their lives up out of the ashes and carry on, all of those things will live with me forever and it's not something that you forget." Up until Victoria's Black Saturday fires of 2009 which killed 173 people, Ash Wednesday was the most deadly. 28 deaths in South Australia and 47 in Victoria. Among the fatalities in Victoria were firefighters from the Country Fire Authority brigades at Panton Hill, Nar Nar Goon, Narre Warren and Wallacedale. The Captain of the Panton Hill Fire Station is Colin Smith. He was just 6 years old in February,1983. "My main memory I guess is just the sadness around the town, being only 6 years old at the time I can't really remember quite what happened but I remember the school, the principal came in the day after and told us all what happened, just remember the main feeling of sadness around the town." Captain Smith says the community decided to establish a memorial park at Panton Hill to remember those who perished. Each year a free community concert is held around the anniversary to honour their memory. "We had a couple of family members come down for the first concert and they were generally pretty happy with what we were doing with the concerts just trying to make everyone aware and just commemorate the day and the guys who gave their lives." And memorial services marking this 30th anniversary will be held in South Australia and Victoria.
