=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Actinide concept - Wikipedia]
Glenn Theodore Seaborg, one of the researchers who synthesized transuranic elements, proposed the actinide concept in 1944 as an explanation for observed deviations and a hypothesis to guide future experiments.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Actinide_concept

[Chapter 118 Origin of the actinide concept - ScienceDirect]
In early papers Bohr (1923) suggested that the addition of the 5f electrons might begin in this region, and in a Bohr-Thomsen type of periodic table he pictured the first ORIGIN OF THE ACTINIDE CONCEPT 3 entry at the element with atomic number 94.
URL: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/chapter/handbook/pii/S0168127305800418

[Actinoid concept | scientific principle | Britannica]
This was one of the most significant changes in the periodic table since Russian chemist Dmitry Mendeleyev’s original conception in 1869. Seaborg recognized that the 14 elements heavier than actinium (89) are closely related to it and belong to a separate group in…
URL: https://www.britannica.com/science/actinoid-concept

[Actinide concept - Academic Dictionaries and Encyclopedias]
The actinide concept in nuclear chemistry was first theorized by Glenn T. Seaborg in 1944, resulting in the correction of Dmitri Mendeleev ' s periodic table of the elements by placing a new actinide series below the lanthanide series.
URL: https://en-academic.com/dic.nsf/enwiki/3085804

[Actinide concept explained]
Glenn Theodore Seaborg, one of the researchers who synthesized transuranic elements, proposed the actinide concept in 1944 as an explanation for observed deviations and a hypothesis to guide future experiments.
URL: https://everything.explained.today/Actinide_concept/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Actinide concept - Wikipedia] ---
In nuclear chemistry, the actinide concept (also known as the actinide hypothesis) proposed that the actinides form a second inner transition series homologous to the lanthanides. Its origins stem from observation of lanthanide-like properties in transuranic elements in contrast to the distinct complex chemistry of previously known actinides. Glenn Theodore Seaborg, one of the researchers who synthesized transuranic elements, proposed the actinide concept in 1944 as an explanation for observed deviations and a hypothesis to guide future experiments. It was accepted shortly thereafter, resulting in the placement of a new actinide series comprising elements 89 (actinium) to 103 (lawrencium) below the lanthanides in Dmitri Mendeleev's periodic table of the elements.




--- [Chapter 118 Origin of the actinide concept - ScienceDirect] ---
No content


--- [Actinoid concept | scientific principle | Britannica] ---
actinoid concept scientific principle Learn about this topic in these articles: conceived by Seaborg - In Glenn T. Seaborg …1944 and known as the actinide concept. This was one of the most significant changes in the periodic table since Russian chemist Dmitry Mendeleyev’s original conception in 1869. Seaborg recognized that the 14 elements heavier than actinium (89) are closely related to it and belong to a separate group in… Read More


--- [Actinide concept - Academic Dictionaries and Encyclopedias] ---
Actinide — The atomic bomb dropped on Nagasaki had a plutonium charge.[1] The actinide or actinoid (IUPAC nomenclature) series encompasses the 15 metallic chemical elements with atomic numbers from 89 to 103, actinium thro … Wikipedia actinide element — ▪ chemical element group Introduction any of a series of 15 consecutive chemical elements in the periodic table from actinium to lawrencium (atomic numbers 89–103). As a group they are significant largely because of their radioactivity.… … Universalium Glenn T. Seaborg — Born April 19, 1912(1912 04 19) Ishpeming, Michigan, USA … Wikipedia History of the periodic table — The history of the periodic table reflects over a century of growth in the understanding of chemical properties, and culminates with the publication of the first actual periodic table by Dmitri Mendeleev in 1869.[1] While Mendeleev built upon… … Wikipedia Actinoid — The actinoid (according to current IUPAC terminology; previously actinide) series encompasses the 15 chemical elements that lie between actinium and lawrencium included on the periodic table, with atomic numbers 89 103. [… … Wikipedia Transactinide element — In chemistry, transactinide elements are the chemical elements with atomic numbers greater than those of the actinides, the heaviest of which is lawrencium (103). [ [http://www.iupac.org/reports/provisional/abstract04/connelly 310804.html IUPAC… … Wikipedia Hassium — (pronEng|ˈhæsiəm or IPA|/ˈhɑːsiəm/ [ [http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/hassium hassium Definitions from Dictionary.com ] ] ) is a synthetic element in the periodic table that has the symbol Hs and atomic number 108. Hassium oxidizes… … Wikipedia Seaborg, Glenn T. — ▪ American chemist in full Glenn Theodore Seaborg born April 19, 1912, Ishpeming, Mich., U.S. died Feb. 25, 1999, Lafayette, Calif. American nuclear (nuclear energy) chemist best known for his work on isolating and identifying transuranium… … Universalium Seaborg, Glenn (Theodore) — born April 19, 1912, Ishpeming, Mich., U.S. died Feb. 25, 1999, Lafayette, Calif. U.S. nuclear chemist. Born to Swedish parents, he pursued graduate study at the University of California at Berkeley. Working with John Livingood, Emilio Segré, and … Universalium Chemical element — The periodic table of the chemical elements A chemical element is a pure chemical substance consisting of one type of atom distinguished by its atomic number, which is the number of protons in its nucleus.[1] Familiar examples of … Wikipedia


--- [Actinide concept explained] ---
In nuclear chemistry, the actinide concept proposed that the actinides form a second inner transition series homologous to the lanthanides. Its origins stem from observation of lanthanide-like properties in transuranic elements in contrast to the distinct complex chemistry of previously known actinides. Glenn T. Seaborg, one of the researchers who synthesized transuranic elements, proposed the actinide concept in 1944 as an explanation for observed deviations and a hypothesis to guide future experiments. It was accepted shortly thereafter, resulting in the placement of a new actinide series comprising elements 89 (actinium) to 103 (lawrencium) below the lanthanides in Dmitri Mendeleev's periodic table of the elements.[1] In the late 1930s, the first four actinides (actinium, thorium, protactinium, and uranium) were known. They were believed to form a fourth series of transition metals, characterized by the filling of 6d orbitals, in which thorium, protactinium, and uranium were respective homologs of hafnium, tantalum, and tungsten.[2] This view was widely accepted as chemical investigations of these elements revealed various high oxidation states and characteristics that closely resembled the 5d transition metals.[3] Nevertheless, research into quantum theory by Niels Bohr and subsequent publications proposed that these elements should constitute a 5f series analogous to the lanthanides, with calculations that the first 5f electron should appear in the range from atomic number 90 (thorium) to 99 (einsteinium). Inconsistencies between theoretical models and known chemical properties thus made it difficult to place these elements in the periodic table. The first appearance of the actinide concept may have been in a 32-column periodic table constructed by Alfred Werner in 1905. Upon determining the arrangement of the lanthanides in the periodic table, he placed thorium as a heavier homolog of cerium, and left spaces for hypothetical radioelements in the seventh period, though he did not establish the correct order of the known actinides.[4] Following the discoveries of transuranic elements neptunium and plutonium in 1940 and preliminary investigations of their chemistry, their placement as a fourth transition metal series was challenged. These new elements exhibited various properties that suggested a close chemical similarity to uranium rather than their supposed transition metal homologs. Subsequent experiments targeting the then-unknown elements americium and curium raised further questions. Seaborg et al. failed to identify these elements under the premise that they were transition metals, but they were successfully separated and discovered in 1944, following the assumption that they would be chemically similar to the lanthanides.[5] Further experiments corroborated the hypothesis of an actinide (then referred to as "thorides" or "uranides") series. A spectroscopic study at the Los Alamos National Laboratory by McMillan, Wahl, and Zachariasen indicated that 5f orbitals, rather than 6d orbitals, were being filled. However, these studies could not unambiguously determine the first element with 5f electrons and therefore the first element in the actinide series. The discoveries of americium and curium under the hypothesis that they resembled the lanthanides prompted Seaborg to propose the concept of an actinide series to his colleagues in 1944 – with the central premise being similarity to the lanthanides and filling of f orbitals. Despite its apparent correctness, they did not recommend Seaborg to submit a communication to Chemical and Engineering News, fearing that it was a radical idea that would ruin his reputation. He nevertheless submitted it and it gained widespread acceptance; new periodic tables thus placed the actinides below the lanthanides. Following its acceptance, the actinide concept proved pivotal in the groundwork for discoveries of heavier elements, such as berkelium in 1949.[6] The actinide concept explained some of the observed properties of the first few actinides, namely the presence of +4 to +6 oxidation states, and proposed hybridization of the 5f and 6d orbitals, whose electrons were shown to be loosely bound in these elements. It also supported experimental results for a trend towards +3 oxidation states in the elements beyond americium. Further elaborations on the actinide concept led Seaborg to propose two more series of elements continuing the established periodicity. He proposed a transactinide series from atomic number 104 to 121 and a superactinide series from atomic number 122 to 153.
