=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[National Academy of Design - Wikipedia]
After three years and some tentative names, in 1828 the academy found its longstanding name "National Academy of Design", under which it was known to one and a half centuries.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/National_Academy_of_Design

[Historical Note | National Academy of Design records, 1817 ...]
After unsuccessful negotiations to unite with the American Academy of Fine Arts, the New York Drawing Association reformed as the National Academy of The Arts of Design on January 19, 1826.
URL: https://www.aaa.si.edu/collections/national-academy-design-records-9080/historical-note

[For America: Paintings from the National Academy of Design]
Jan 26, 2020 — Founded in New York City in 1825 by artists including Samuel F.B. Morse, Asher B. Durand, and Thomas Cole, The National Academy of Design is ...
URL: https://www.nbmaa.org/exhibitions/for-america-paintings-from-the-national-academy-of-design

[National Academy of Design - Wikiwand]
The National Academy of Design is an honorary association of American artists, founded in New York City in 1825 by Samuel Morse, Asher Durand, Thomas Cole, Fred...
URL: https://www.wikiwand.com/en/articles/The_National_Academy_of_Design

[National Academy of Design]
The National Academy Museum and School was founded in 1825 by a group of prominent artists in New York City. Housing a public collection of over 7,000 works ...
URL: https://www.renfrodesign.com/page/national-academy-design


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [National Academy of Design - Wikipedia] ---
The National Academy of Design is an honorary association of American artists, founded in New York City in 1825 by Samuel Morse, Asher Durand, Thomas Cole, Frederick Styles Agate, Martin E. Thompson, Charles Cushing Wright, Ithiel Town, and others "to promote the fine arts in America through instruction and exhibition." Membership is limited to 450 American artists and architects, who are elected by their peers on the basis of recognized excellence.




--- [Historical Note | National Academy of Design records, 1817 ...] ---
The National Academy of Design (1825- ) based in New York City, is a tripartite organization consisting of a membership body of artists, a school, and an exhibition program. The Academy was founded in 1825 by a group of professional artists with the mission to promote the fine arts in America through exhibition and education. Originally named the New York Drawing Association, the Academy was the first organization in the United States established and managed by professional artists. Samuel F.B. Morse, the Academy's first president, was influenced by the organization of the Royal Academy in London, which was comprised of professional artist members and elected government council, an art school, and a venue for exhibitions. After unsuccessful negotiations to unite with the American Academy of Fine Arts, the New York Drawing Association reformed as the National Academy of The Arts of Design on January 19, 1826. Among the founders were mostly young artists who became prominent figures in American art, including Frederick S. Agate, Thomas Cole, Thomas S. Cummings, Asher B. Durand, John Frazee, Charles C. Ingham, Henry Inman, Gerlando Marsiglia, Samuel F. B. Morse, Samuel L. Waldo, and Charles Cushing Wright. The first Academy members were elected in January 1826, and levels of membership were established shortly thereafter. Originally there were four levels of Academy membership: associates, academicians, artists, and honorary corresponding members. The category of artists was eliminated in 1829, and the honorary member category, established to recognize American artists living outside New York, distinguished foreign artists, and patrons and friends of the Academy, was eliminated in 1862 (the constitution was not amended with this change until 1896). Since 1869, the residency requirement for election to active membership was eliminated and membership was opened to all American artists. In 1920, the classification of honorary corresponding member was re-introduced to recognize representatives of other national academies. With the 1997 constitution, the honorary corresponding member classification was again eliminated, and in 1994 the associate category was eliminated. Artists are proposed for membership by academicians through the membership committee and are elected for life by a sixty percent majority, based on recognized excellence and significant contributions to the field. Procedures and rules for nominating and choosing new academicians changed over the years, as detailed in the constitutions. Associates were at one time required to present a portrait of themselves upon election and academicians were required to provide an additional representative work upon election. With the elimination of the category of associate in 1994, only one representative work is currently required. These works of art become part of the Academy's permanent collection. The original classes of professional artists were painting, sculpture, architecture, and engraving. These professional classes were modified over the years. In 1936 the engraving class was made more comprehensive, including all of the graphic arts. Watercolor was added as a class in 1943 and was codified in the 1945 constitution. However, the division into five distinct classes started to create difficulties in how specific works of art were to be categorized. In 1981 the council eased the rules regarding separate media classification so that members could submit a work in any medium to the annual exhibitions regardless of the class to which they had been elected. The constitution of 1994 restated four professional classes—painting, sculpture, graphics, and architecture—which were further reduced in the 2011 constitution to two: visual arts and architecture. Until 2009, the governing body of the Academy was the council. The seven officers of the council were president, vice-president, treasurer, assistant treasurer, corresponding secretary, assistant corresponding secretary and recording secretary, all of whom were required to be academicians. In 2009, a new constitution provided for a board of governors, replacing the council. The five officers of the board of governors are chair, vice-chair, president, vice-president, and treasurer. Only the offices of president and vice-president are required to be held by academicians. Central to the Academy's mission, the school began with an anatomy lecture for the New York Drawing Association, delivered by Dr. Frederick G. King in November 1825. The first drawing session took place in November 1826 in the Old Alms House at City Hall Park with two academicians and twenty students. In the school's early years, professional artists met with students to draw from plaster casts of antique sculpture in the academic tradition. Both lectures and studio training were central the school's early curricula. Life classes, the practice of drawing from live models, were introduced in 1837, but only to advanced male students. A life class for women was not instituted until 1857, even though women were allowed membership to the Academy since its beginning. Due to financial difficulties at the Academy, the school was forced to move locations and shut down its operations for extended periods. Mounting dissatisfaction and frustration led several students and Lemuel E. Wilmarth, one of the school's leaders and first full-time professional instructor, to leave the Academy in 1875 and form a new school, the Art Students League. While charging tuition was unpopular, the Academy realized that it was necessary to ensure the school's sustainability, and implemented fee structures with varying success over the second half of the 19th century and first half of the 20th. Eventually, tuition was established by 1951, when the school was reopened at a new location, 5th Avenue and 89th Street. Exhibitions have always been an important activity for the Academy, even prior to the opening of the National Academy Museum in 1979. Since 1826, the Academy has held annual exhibitions intended to reflect contemporary art currents in America. Any American artist was eligible to submit work to be reviewed by a jury of selection, comprised of academicians. Throughout the 19th century, the annual exhibitions at the Academy were one of the most significant and influential in the country. The selection process for these exhibitions was a critical topic, at times actively discussed in the press, and continually undergoing modification and change. In addition to the Annuals, the galleries of the Academy were often rented or loaned to outside organizations such as the American Watercolor Society, Audubon Artists, and the National Association of Women Artists. The galleries also mounted special exhibitions curated by its members and hosted a certain number of travelling exhibitions organized by other museums or art organizations. The museum, opened in 1979, hosted and presented major exhibitions, many focusing on historic European subjects. Official Names of the Academy 1825-2017 1825 The New York Drawing Association 1826 The National Academy of The Arts of Design 1828 The National Academy of Design 1997 The National Academy Museum and School of Fine Art 2017 The National Academy of Design National Academy of Design Meeting, Exhibition, and School Locations 1826 Old Alms House at City Hall Park in lower Manhattan 1827-1830 Chambers Street over the Arcade Baths 1831-1840 Corner of Nassau and Beckman Streets, the Mercantile Library on the third floor of Clinton Hall 1841 to 1849 346 Broadway (at Leonard Street), the third and fourth floors of the New York Society Library 1850-1854 663 Broadway, where the Academy erected a suite of six galleries 1855-1856 548 Broadway (over Dr. Chapin's Church) 1857 663 Broadway 1858-1861 10th Street and 4th Avenue, the upper floor of a building 1861-1863 625 Broadway, the Institute of Art 1865-1899 23rd Street and Fourth Avenue (now Park Avenue South) 1899-1940 109th Street and Amsterdam Avenue; exhibition galleries at 215 West 57th Street 1940-2017 1083 Fifth Avenue at East 89th Street


--- [For America: Paintings from the National Academy of Design] ---
ABOUT THE EXHIBITION For America: Paintings from the National Academy of Design Stitzer Family Gallery, Robert and Dorothy Vance Gallery, and Richard and Virginia McKernan Gallery Founded in New York City in 1825 by artists including Samuel F.B. Morse, Asher B. Durand, and Thomas Cole, The National Academy of Design is the oldest artist honorary society in the United States. From its inception to the present, the NAD has required all Academicians to donate a representative work to the Academy’s collection, and, from 1839 to 1994, the Academy also required Associates to present a portrait of themselves, whether painted by their own hand or that of a fellow artist. Over the decades, this rule has resulted in a distinctive collection of American art that today totals over 8,000 works and includes nearly every major American artist. For America: Paintings from the National Academy of Design is the first exhibition to highlight this decisive feature of the collection—the joint presentation of an artist’s portrait with his or her diploma works. Featuring over ninety paintings, the exhibition presents not only a visual document of the Academy’s membership but a unique history of American art from 1809 to present. Sponsors: The exhibition is organized by the American Federation of Arts and the National Academy of Design. For America: Paintings from the National Academy of Design is supported by the JFM Foundation, Monique Schoen Warshaw, and Steph and Jody La Nasa. In New Britain, For America lead exhibition support is provided by the Jack Warner Foundation. Generous funding is also provided by The David T. Langrock Foundation, the Kathryn Cox Special Exhibitions Fund, and Dr. Timothy P. McLaughlin and Dr. Marian Kellner. Additional support of For America is provided by the Special Exhibition Fund donors, including John N. Howard, Sylvia Bonney, Anita Arcuni Ferrante and Anthony Ferrante, Marian and Russell Burke, and The Aeroflex Foundation. We also gratefully acknowledge the funding of Brendan and Carol Conry, Irene and Charles J. Hamm, and Carolyn and Elliot Joseph.


--- [National Academy of Design - Wikiwand] ---
No content


--- [National Academy of Design] ---
National Academy of Design Photos by Andy Ryan 2011 Bade Stageberg Cox nEW yORK, ny Museums & Galleries Education & Libraries The National Academy Museum and School was founded in 1825 by a group of prominent artists in New York City. Housing a public collection of over 7,000 works of American art from the 19th, 20th and 21st centuries in a historic townhouse on 5th Avenue’s Museum Mile, the Academy sought to upgrade the current structure and refresh the institution’s identity with a $3.5 million renovation to both the Museum and the School. Acting as a beacon of information, the new museum entrance draws visitors in through curiosity. LED uplights concealed within wall coves graze light across the Corrian ceiling, showcasing the carved names of both current and past Academicians. The historic galleries feature new track and fixtures that maintain museum-quality lighting but with minimal interventions and smaller, more efficient track heads. The renovated school entryway acts as both an orientation center and an art gallery to exhibit students’ work. Fluorescent fixtures integrated into the ceiling tiles create an energy-efficient, unified pattern of light across the large entry space. These luminaires have a separately circuited center accent, providing a flexible lighting solution with both general and accent lighting for the art walls. A similar lighting scheme was implemented in the multi-purpose room along with a separately circuited combination linear fluorescent and incandescent wall-wash built into the existing perimeter cove.
