=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[The American Album of Familiar Music - Alchetron]
Dec 12, 2024 · The show's announcers were André Baruch, Howard Claney and Roger Krupp. The 30-minute show aired Sunday evenings at 9pm until 1933 when it moved to 9:30pm. In 1938, the Hummerts did away with the studio audience after concluding that the music sounded better with fewer people in the studio.
URL: https://alchetron.com/The-American-Album-of-Familiar-Music

[The American Album of Familiar Music]
The American Album of Familiar Music is a radio program of popular music broadcast ... The show's announcers were George Ansbro, André Baruch, Howard ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_American_Album_of_Familiar_Music

[We was or We were which is correct? - English Language Learners...]
We was is not standard English, it is used in some regional dialects: The verb 'to be' has two simple past forms in Standard English - I/he/she/it was and you/we/they were. Apart from the special case of you, the distinction is, therefore, between singular was and plural were In some regional dialects, however, this pattern is not observed. In some parts of the country, speakers use was ...
URL: https://ell.stackexchange.com/questions/185313/we-was-or-we-were-which-is-correct

[Category:1930s American radio programs - Wikipedia]
This category has the following 3 subcategories, out of 3 total. The following 200 pages are in this category, out of approximately 244 total. This list may not reflect recent changes. Don't You Believe It!
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:1930s_American_radio_programs

[american album of familiar music]
Aug 18, 2012 — The American Album of Familiar Music was a radio program of popular ... The show's announcers were André Baruch, Howard Claney and Roger Krupp.
URL: https://www.onesmedia.com/music-c-10_65/american-album-of-familiar-music-p-958.html


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [The American Album of Familiar Music - Alchetron] ---
The American Album of Familiar Music is a radio program of popular music broadcast from October 11, 1931, to June 17, 1951, first on NBC and then on ABC. Directed by James Haupt, the show was produced by Frank and Anne Hummert, better remembered today for creating Ma Perkins and other soap operas. Sponsored by Bayer Aspirin, the show highlighted performances by a variety of vocalists, instrumentalists and vocal groups. When it began October 11, 1931 on NBC, the lead vocalist was Frank Munn, one of early radio's top stars because of his previous appearances on The Palmolive Hour (1927-31). Ring Lardner observed, "Under any name, they sound as sweet." Lardner outlined his "perfect radio program" for The New Yorker magazine, and found a place for The Revelers along with Paul Whiteman and Fanny Brice. In the late 1930s, Munn was joined on the program by soprano Jean Dickenson (1937-51), "Nightingale of the Airwaves." Another co-star with Munn during that period was Lucy Monroe, who sang The Star-Spangled Banner at every New York Yankees opening day and every Yankees World Series between 1945 and 1960. Other singers featured on the program were Margaret Daum, Elizabeth Lennox, Vivian della Chiesa, Virginia Rea, Donald Dame, and the dozen members of the Buckingham Choir. Vocalist Evelyn MacGregor (1899-1967) was also heard on The American Melody Hour. Walter Gustave "Gus" Haenschen. who led the orchestra, composed the opening theme song, "Dream Serenade," with lyrics by Alfred Bryan. The line-up also included violin soloist Bernard Hirsch and the piano duo of Victor Arden and Phil Ohman. The show's announcers were André Baruch, Howard Claney and Roger Krupp. The 30-minute show aired Sunday evenings at 9pm until 1933 when it moved to 9:30pm. In 1938, the Hummerts did away with the studio audience after concluding that the music sounded better with fewer people in the studio. In 1945, when Frank Munn left the show for retirement, he was replaced by Frank Parker. After the NBC run ended November 19, 1950, the series moved a week later (November 26) to ABC where it was still broadcast Sundays at 9:30pm, continuing until the June 17, 1951 finale.


--- [The American Album of Familiar Music] ---
The American Album of Familiar Music is a radio program of popular music broadcast from October 11, 1931, to June 17, 1951, first on NBC, then on ABC. Directed by James Haupt, the show was produced by Frank and Anne Hummert, better remembered today for creating Ma Perkins and numerous other soap operas. On a typical broadcast a listener was likely to hear "an aria from opera, a Strauss waltz and the latest popular hit." 
Sponsored by Bayer Aspirin, the show highlighted performances by a variety of vocalists, instrumentalists, and vocal groups. When it began on October 11, 1931 on NBC, the lead vocalists were Frank Munn and Virginia Rea, two of early radio's top stars because of their previous appearances as "Paul Oliver" and "Olive Palmer" on The Palmolive Hour (1927–31). Ring Lardner observed, "under any name, they sound as sweet." Lardner outlined his "perfect radio program" for The New Yorker magazine, and found a place for The Revelers along with Paul Whiteman and Fanny Brice.
In the late 1930s, Munn was joined on the program by soprano Jean Dickenson (1937–51), "Nightingale of the Airwaves." Another co-star with Munn during that period was Lucy Monroe, who sang The Star-Spangled Banner at every New York Yankees opening day and every Yankees World Series between 1945 and 1960.
Other singers featured on the program were Margaret Daum, Elizabeth Lennox, Vivian Della Chiesa, Donald Dame, and the dozen members of the Buckingham Choir. Vocalist Evelyn MacGregor (1899-1967) was also heard on The American Melody Hour.
Walter Gustave "Gus" Haenschen, who led the orchestra, composed the opening theme song, "Dream Serenade," with lyrics by Alfred Bryan. The line-up also included violin soloist Bertram Hirsch, the piano duo of Victor Arden and Phil Ohman, and a quartet billed as “The Henchmen,” after Haenschen. The show's announcers were George Ansbro, André Baruch, Howard Claney and Roger Krupp. The 30-minute show aired Sunday evenings at 9:00 p.m. until 1933 when it moved to 9:30 p.m.
In 1938, the Hummerts did away with the studio audience after concluding that the music sounded better with fewer people in the studio, and fewer breaks due to applause. Musical Director and Conductor Gus Haenschen, who wrote many of the program's arrangements, ensured that the orchestra played softly as the announcer introduced each selection, thereby achieving a musical continuity from the opening to the close of each broadcast.
In 1945, when Munn left the show for retirement, he was replaced by Frank Parker. In 1952, Parker was replaced by tenor Earl William, the stage name of Earl Sauvain. Baritone Michael Roberts and pianist Ernest Ulmer were also added to the cast in 1952.
After the NBC run ended on November 19, 1950, the series moved a week later (November 26) to ABC where it was still broadcast Sundays at 9:30 p.m., continuing until the June 17, 1951 final network broadcast. From then until June 20, 1954, the orchestra, chorus and soloists toured the United States, and its performances were broadcast on local stations.


--- [We was or We were which is correct? - English Language Learners...] ---
# We was or We were which is correct?

I several times, particularly,while reading novels, encountered the sentence ' we was ....' .But as per my knowledge is concerned were is appropriate verb instaed of was. Please explain it. Thank you

Usage examples: 

From 
The Life and Times of Ray Hicks: Keeper of the Jack Tales: 


  We was hurryin' so as not to get caught in a blizzard storm. The northwest wind blowed over the mountain and was so strong ......The snow started a comin' down so fast, in short order we couldn't see where we was goin. ice was a freezin' on our faces. We turned to walk backwards, then forwards , ...


From Tom Sawyer, Detective
By Mark Twain:


  What we was after was a couple of noble big di'monds as big as hazel-nuts, which everybody was running to see. We was dressed up fine, and ...




--- [Category:1930s American radio programs - Wikipedia] ---
No content


--- [american album of familiar music] ---
OLD TIME RADIO - 1 CD-ROM - 5 mp3 - Total Time: 2:29:37 The American Album of Familiar Music was a radio program of popular music broadcast from 1931 to 1951, first on NBC and then on ABC. Directed by James Haupt, the show was produced by Frank and Anne Hummert, better remembered today for creating Ma Perkins and other soap operas. Sponsored by Bayer Aspirin, the show highlighted performances by a variety of vocalists, instrumentalists and vocal groups. When it began October 11, 1931 on NBC, the lead vocalist was Frank Munn, one of early radio's top stars because of his previous appearances on The Palmolive Hour (1927-31). Ring Lardner observed, "Under any name, they sound as sweet." Lardner outlined his "perfect radio program" for The New Yorker magazine, and found a place for The Revelers along with Paul Whiteman and Fanny Brice. In the late 1930s, Munn was joined on the program by soprano Jean Dickenson (1937-51), "Nightingale of the Airwaves." Another co-star with Munn during that period was Lucy Monroe, who sang The Star-Spangled Banner at every New York Yankees opening day and every Yankees World Series between 1945 and 1960. Other singers featured on the program were Margaret Daum, Elizabeth Lennox, Vivian della Chiesa, Virginia Rea, Donald Dame, and the dozen members of the Buckingham Choir. Vocalist Evelyn MacGregor (1899-1967) was also heard on the American Melody Hour. Gus Haenschen. who led the orchestra, composed the opening theme song, "Dream Serenade," with lyrics by Alfred Bryan. The line-up also included violin soloist Bernard Hirsch and the piano duo of Victor Arden and Phil Ohman. The show's announcers were André Baruch, Howard Claney and Roger Krupp. The 30-minute show aired Sunday evenings at 9pm until 1933 when it moved to 9:30pm. In 1938, the Hummerts did away with the studio audience after concluding that the music sounded better with fewer people in the studio. In 1945, when Frank Munn left the show for retirement, he was replaced by Frank Parker. After the NBC run ended November 19, 1950, the series moved a week later (November 26) to ABC where it was still broadcast Sundays at 9:30pm, continuing until the June 17, 1951 finale. EPISODES LIST 41-12-07 (xxx) First Song - Our Love 45-10-14 (xxx) First Song - When I'm Looking At You xx-xx-xx (169) First Song - If I Love Again xx-xx-xx (170) First Song - The Way You Look Tonight xx-xx-xx (40) First Song - A Pretty Girl Is Like A Melody (AFRS) THESE ARE MP3 RECORDINGS THEY WILL NOT PLAY IN REGULAR CD PLAYERS CLICK HERE TO KNOW MORE ABOUT mp3 CLICK HERE TO LEARN MORE ABOUT OUR PRODUCTS We guarantee delivery of your item. If your item doesn't get there or is damaged, please notify us and we'll reship for you. FULL REFUND IF NOT SATISFIED This product was added to our catalog on Saturday 18 August, 2012.
