=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[To Do Your Will Is My Delight (2025 Convention Song) - JW.ORG]
In imitation of Jesus’ joyful obedience, we too find delight in doing God’s will.
URL: https://www.jw.org/en/library/music-songs/original-songs/To-Do-Your-Will-Is-My-Delight-2025-Convention-Song/

[Original Songs - JW.ORG]
Enjoy listening to a collection of songs based on appreciation for our spiritual heritage. Download lyrics, MP3 audio, and video.
URL: https://www.jw.org/en/library/music-songs/original-songs/

[NES Original Soundtrack Small Collection by [ozuka music]]
NES Original Soundtrack Small Collection is a collection of 11 tunes crafted around both the NES limitations and its classic sonority. Pack has 3 versions of every file HiFi WAV LoFi OGG and mobilesitting somewhere in the middle and in the OGG extension ideal fo...
URL: https://ozukamusic.itch.io/nes-original-soundtrack-small-collection

[NEON GUNSLINGER by epicjim2005]
The music in this game is not made by me check the artist out.
URL: https://epicjim2005.itch.io/neon-gunslinger

[Game Over | LydianChord and NomnomNami | LydianChord]
Game Over from KAIMA Soundtrack with Bonus Tracks byLydianChord and NomnomNami.
URL: https://lydianchord.bandcamp.com/track/game-over-2


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [To Do Your Will Is My Delight (2025 Convention Song) - JW.ORG] ---
To Do Your Will Is My Delight (2025 Convention Song) Download: 1. As your Son rose up from the Jordan And your precious words filled his heart, He was deeply moved by your purpose, And he longed to play his part. He refused to yield to temptation. He was zealous for your name. He gave ev’rything he could give you, And I long to do the same. (CHORUS) To do your will is my delight. I give you all my strength and might. This joy I feel; this joy is real. I will walk on in your light. To do your will is my delight. I have a hope so clear and bright. Your love I feel; your love is real. I will praise you day and night. It’s my delight. 2. As I’ve come to know you, Jehovah, I’ve found happiness deep inside. I will gladly speak as your witness, And your truth I will not hide. Serving side by side with my brothers, There’s no better way to live. I will bear your name, oh, so proudly. I’ll give all that I can give. (CHORUS) To do your will is my delight. I give you all my strength and might. This joy I feel; this joy is real. I will walk on in your light. To do your will is my delight. I have a hope so clear and bright. Your love I feel; your love is real. I will praise you day and night. It’s my delight. Your will is my delight.


--- [Original Songs - JW.ORG] ---
Original Songs A collection of songs based on appreciation for our spiritual heritage. Hearer of Prayer When we pour out our hearts to Jehovah, he grants us peace beyond compare. A Higher Kind of Love What blessings await you if you take a step forward in your service to Jehovah? My Spiritual Need Filling our spiritual need brings true happiness. Tell Them You Love Them See how people of different circumstances are able to show love to others through their words and actions. We See You, Sister We appreciate our faithful Christian sisters around the world. The Road to Life Seeking great things for Jehovah from our youth on helps us stay on the road to life. Every Minute By reflecting on the gift of life, we avoid letting precious time with loved ones slip away. It’s Filled With Love God’s Word is full of beautiful expressions of love. See how that love has motivated and helped God’s servants throughout history. To Do Your Will Is My Delight (2025 Convention Song) In imitation of Jesus’ joyful obedience, we too find delight in doing God’s will. It Won’t Be Long It won’t be long before we enjoy the blessings of the new world. I Am in Your Hands Allowing Jehovah to shape you can completely change your life. Living Peacefully in a Peaceless World Being peaceable glorifies Jehovah. Give Jehovah Glory Our love and appreciation for Jehovah move us to give him glory. The Power Beyond My Own See how Jehovah “gives those who are alone a home to dwell in.” Let’s Keep It Simple We will be truly happy if we focus on the simple things Jehovah provides. Pause and Reset How can reflecting on God’s creation help us pause and successfully deal with life’s challenges? “The Real Life” Meditating on our hope for the future gives us strength to endure difficult circumstances. “Good News”! (2024 Convention Song) From the first century to today, humans have joyfully preached the good news, sharing in a work that’s much bigger than any one of us—a work that’s directed personally by Jesus and supported individually by the angels. ‘Peace Becomes Just Like a River’ The peace from Jehovah is like a river, and it flows forever. Feed My Faith Feed your faith, and doubts will starve to death. Home It’s not too late to come home. We Can’t Hold Back Trust in Jehovah, and preach despite fear. He Knows Us Jehovah knows each one of us and understands our deepest feelings. “Two Small Coins” Jehovah appreciates your sacrifices, no matter how great or small. When All Hearts Sing as One We enjoy the peace that comes from serving Jehovah. Draw Close to Me God is keenly interested in all who want to draw close to him, no matter their background. “It Will Not Be Late!” (2023 Convention Song) Imitate faithful ones as you wait patiently on Jehovah. Live for Forever We can enjoy a life filled with joy and meaning now and in the future. Learn From a Fall If you learn from a mistake, you’ll be stronger than before. Friends Again Put any offense behind you and be friends again! I Know Jehovah’s With Me With Jehovah’s help, we can overcome any fears. To Whom Could I Go Away? Follow a lifetime of faithful service as one servant listens to the voice of the shepherd. Peace at Last! (2022 Convention Song) See beyond your trials to God’s promise of true peace. Together We Are Strong With our united brotherhood and Jehovah’s help, we can endure any trial. Jehovah’s Family There are still people in this world who are looking for truth. This video will motivate you to continue looking for sheeplike ones. Make Time for Jehovah Keeping busy for Jehovah is the best way of life. You Will See Rejoice in the hope for a new world. Use Your Strength for Jehovah’s Name Use your strength for Jehovah. You won’t regret it! “Always Rejoice” A happy song can remind us of the many reasons to rejoice. With Eyes of Faith Imagine the wondrous future God has in store for mankind. One United People Despite trials and tribulations, we remain one united people. Safeguard Your Mind With Jehovah’s help, you can win the battle against anxious thoughts. My Only One Celebrate Jehovah’s gift of marriage. We Won’t Stop Now Strong faith is built from quality building materials. Run the Race Make wise decisions to win the race for life. Forgive Freely Has someone hurt you? Are you having difficulty letting go? Find out how you can forgive freely. Our Joy Eternally Jehovah is and will always be our true Source of joy. Please Be Convinced We can be convinced that Jehovah loves us, regardless of the trials that we face. Just Like a Child How can we be like a child in the way that we show love? Roll It on Him When you’re depressed, continue to rely on Jehovah for strength and comfort. I Give My Life to You Motivated by love for Jehovah, we progress to dedication and baptism. Unfailing Love Love from Jehovah never fails. It brings us joy and comfort. The New World to Come We can influence our thoughts by what we picture in our mind’s eye. This song helps us focus on the new world. Jehovah’s Always by Our Side Jehovah is always willing to hold our hand. “Fight the Fine Fight of the Faith” Despite our problems and struggles, we can remain faithful to Jehovah. We’re Your Family Wherever we are, we are part of Jehovah’s family. Thankful for God’s Creation Take time to meditate on Jehovah’s creation and then thank him in prayer. Be Courageous and Strong A favorite song that helps us to endure. Each Day Has Its Own Anxieties We can find peace and joy despite our burdens. All I Can Give Jehovah truly deserves our whole-souled devotion and service. With Jehovah, We Are One Even though we live in a wicked world, we have a peaceful and united brotherhood. You Can Count on Me Through our ups and downs, we can count on true friends. Give Me Courage Jehovah can give us courage to endure any trials we may face. True Friends Where do we turn to find true friends? The Search Those who sincerely want to know God can do so if they make the effort to search for him. Do Not Be Afraid When life gets hard, we need to remember we’re not alone. Brotherly Love Jehovah’s people come to each other’s aid like no one else in this world. Never Alone When we have Jehovah, we are never alone! I’m Making a Change Have you been inspired to make a change in your ministry? Truly in Love Having Jehovah God in your marriage will make it strong! Confident in You Reading and meditating on God’s Word can help us survive the storms of life. Important Things We need to set time aside for the most important things—prayer, study, and godly devotion. Inspired by Your Wonders The work of Jehovah’s hands fills us with awe and inspires us to sing to him. Look at Me Make the most of the time spent with your brothers and sisters. A Place That Will Bring You Praise We are honored to dedicate to Jehovah a place in which his great name will be glorified. Let’s Take the Leap Expanding our ministry, in whatever form, can bring us great joy as servants of Jehovah. Precious Daughter Through the years, a father watches as his daughter grows up and makes the truth her own. We Marvel at Your Work Cherish your privilege of working with Jehovah! I Can Get Back Up Follow a previously zealous servant of Jehovah as she finds the strength to return to the love of the congregation. I Keep Your Reminders By word and deed, let us prove that we really love Jehovah’s reminders. Faith Can Make Things Happen It takes effort to build strong faith, but Jehovah will reward us when we make that effort. Building My Future With Jehovah Please Jehovah each day with the choices you make. Stop, Think, and Pray When we face problems, what can we do? Your Word Endures Forever Praise God for preserving his Word for mankind! Study Makes You Strong Personal study of God’s Word can help young ones grow spiritually strong. Choices We are wise to consider how the choices we make in personal matters affect our ministry and other people. Just Around the Corner Looking forward to the future Paradise can help us endure. Forgive One Another Look for opportunities in your life to imitate Jehovah and forgive others. Where I Belong How can you choose the best friends possible? Our Thanks Go to You Through his holy spirit, Jehovah helps us to endure the many challenges we face. We’re moved to sing our appreciation to him. “Follow the Course of Hospitality” In what ways can you be hospitable? Don’t Run So Fast Our ministry and other aspects of life often improve when we slow down and take our time. Blessings of Learning a Language What blessings can you enjoy as the result of learning a new language? Keep the Pace Keep pace with Jehovah’s advancing organization! Imagine the Time A brand new day is waiting for us just ahead. Take Your Time, Choose Wisely When seeking a marriage mate, we need to be patient and choose wisely. I Give You My Best It’s not easy for parents to see their children move to a place far away. Joy of Conventions When we attend a convention, we feel the unity and love of our worldwide brotherhood. Jehovah Welcomes You Home God’s holy spirit can help you take the needed steps to return to him. Finding Treasures Personal Bible study and family worship can help us grow spiritually. Just a Smile A smile can make a difference in our ministry and our daily life. Now Is the Time The pioneer spirit moves us to be generous to our neighbors. Glad I Passed the Test What can help young ones face peer pressure at school? Give You My All Give God your best while you are young. “Honor Jehovah With Your Valuable Things” What can we give Jehovah to bring joy to his heart? Never Give Up Carry on, and trust in Jehovah. What Means the Most to Me Choose carefully what really honors Jehovah. If You Could See What I See I’m a cart that helps to give a witness. We Won’t Forget You We are not forgotten in times of adversity. The Best Life Ever Helping and encouraging others gives us the best feeling ever. Sorry, there are no terms that match your selection.


--- [NES Original Soundtrack Small Collection by [ozuka music]] ---
I am finally using them for a game jam after purchasing the music 2 years ago. NES Original Soundtrack Small Collection A downloadable soundtrack A collection of 11 tunes crafted around both the NES limitations and its classic sonority--the main reference being Super Mario Bros. Ideal for small projects, arcade-y/retro games or development jams, the pack has 3 versions of every file: Hi-Fi (WAV), Lo-Fi (OGG) and mobile--sitting somewhere in the middle and in the OGG extension, ideal for such devices. Give the tracks a listen! Here's an album put together with the material available in this pack: https://ozukamusic.bandcamp.com/album/nes-original-soundtrack-small-collection The tracks were released under Creative Commons' "Attribution", that meaning you can mess with 'em any way you like as long as you credit the creator. :) https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/ Tracks crafted by Juliano Zucareli [ozuka music] | Status | Released | | Category | Soundtrack | | Rating | Rated 5.0 out of 5 stars (1 total ratings) | | Author | [ozuka music] | | Tags | 8-Bit, Arcade, chiptune, mario, Music, NES (Nintendo Entertainment System), ost, Retro, score, soundtrack | Purchase In order to download this soundtrack you must purchase it at or above the minimum price of $1 USD. You will get access to the following files: Comments Log in with itch.io to leave a comment. Your songs are brilliant. Truly excellent. I Made a game and used some of your songs. I gave you credit on the home screen. https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=rachel.machines


--- [NEON GUNSLINGER by epicjim2005] ---
the sensitivity is crack NEON GUNSLINGER Set in a world where everything is either neon or guns! Fight through a horde of enemies, finish you one goal to kill them ALL! Controls: P - pause the game LSHIFT - sprint ESC - release cursor E - interact/pickup objects SPACE - jump LEFT CLICK - shoot weapon RIGHT CLICK - aim weapon 1 - switch to a pistol 2 - switch to a assault rifle 3 - switch to a sniper rifle The music in this game is not made by me, check the artist out: | Status | Released | | Platforms | HTML5 | | Author | epicjim2005 | | Genre | Action, Shooter | | Made with | Unity, Adobe Photoshop | | Tags | 3D, Dystopian, First-Person, FPS, Neon, Ninja, Short, Singleplayer, Unity | | Average session | A few minutes | | Languages | English | | Inputs | Keyboard, Mouse | Comments Log in with itch.io to leave a comment.


--- [Game Over | LydianChord and NomnomNami | LydianChord] ---
No matching results Try a different filter or a new search keyword. Search all Bandcamp artists, tracks, and albums LydianChord Hi, I'm Alex, and I make chiptunes and other video game music Contact LydianChord Streaming and Download help Redeem code Report this track or account If you like LydianChord, you may also like: DELTARUNE Chapter 1 OSTby Toby Fox supported by 12 fans who also own “Game Over” Rouxls Kaard is very hot Mäuschen Syrup and the Ultimate Sweet OSTby Mock Off supported by 10 fans who also own “Game Over” Somehow a small 2-hour indie game made for a yuri game jam that barely has any yuri in it ends up in my top 20 best games OAT. Funny how stuff like this happens. jam_sandwh1ch DELTARUNE Chapter 2 OSTby Toby Fox supported by 9 fans who also own “Game Over” TIME TO BE A [BIG SHOT]! ibomb Social Caterpillar OSTby Lannie "Merlandese" Neely III featured on Bandcamp Radio Nov 5, 2013 FEZ OSTby Disasterpeace Disasters for Pianoby David Peacock David Peacock reimagines the Disasterpeace score for piano. Bandcamp New & Notable Nov 2, 2017 UNDERTALE Soundtrackby toby fox supported by 8 fans who also own “Game Over” A great game with a greater soundtrack. scam2likely
