=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Gulf War - Wikipedia]
On 14 January 1991, France proposed that the UN Security Council call for "a rapid and massive withdrawal" from Kuwait along with a statement to Iraq that Council members would bring their "active contribution" to a settlement of the region's other problems, "in particular, of the Arab-Israeli conflict and in particular to the Palestinian ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gulf_War

[History of Gulf War - Timeline - Historydraft]
On 14 January 1991, France proposed that the UN Security Council call for "a rapid and massive withdrawal" from Kuwait along with a statement to Iraq that Council members would bring their "active contribution" to a settlement of the region's other problems, "in particular, of the Arab-Israeli conflict and in particular to the Palestinian ...
URL: https://historydraft.com/story/gulf-war/timeline/333

[France propose - Gulf War - Historydraft]
On 14 January 1991, France proposed that the UN Security Council call for "a rapid and massive withdrawal" from Kuwait along with a statement to Iraq that Council members would bring their "active contribution" to a settlement of the region's other problems, "in particular, of the Arab-Israeli conflict and in particular to the Palestinian problem by convening, at an appropriate moment, an ...
URL: https://historydraft.com/story/gulf-war/france-propose/333/2808

[APO 09616 IRAQ or KUWAIT 1991 Army Cover OPERATION DESERT ...]
... Council call for "a rapid and massive withdrawal" from Kuwait along with a statement to Iraq that Council members would bring their "active contribution ...
URL: https://www.ebay.com/itm/395545550076

[Persian Gulf War | Summary, Dates, Combatants, Casualties ...]
The Persian Gulf War, also called Gulf War (1990–91), was an international conflict triggered by Iraq’s invasion of Kuwait on August 2, 1990. Iraq’s leader, Saddam Hussein, ordered the invasion and occupation of Kuwait to acquire the nation’s large oil reserves, cancel a large debt Iraq owed Kuwait, and expand Iraqi power in the region.
URL: https://www.britannica.com/event/Persian-Gulf-War


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Gulf War - Wikipedia] ---
The Gulf War was an armed conflict between Iraq and a 42-country coalition led by the United States. The coalition's efforts were in two phases: Operation Desert Shield, which marked the military buildup from August 1990 to January 1991; and Operation Desert Storm, from the bombing campaign against Iraq on 17 January until the American-led liberation of Kuwait on 28 February.
On 2 August 1990, Iraq, governed by Saddam Hussein, invaded neighboring Kuwait and occupied the country within two days. The invasion was primarily over Kuwait's alleged slant drilling in Iraq's Rumaila oil field, and Iraq's large debt to Kuwait from the recently ended Iran–Iraq War. After a brief rump puppet government known as the Republic of Kuwait, Iraq split Kuwait's territory, absorbing the north into Basra Governorate, and establishing Kuwait Governorate in the south.  
The invasion of Kuwait was met with immediate international condemnation. The UN Security Council demanded Iraq's immediate withdrawal and imposed a total embargo on products from Iraq and Kuwait. The coalition began a military buildup in the Persian Gulf region. The broadest military alliance since World War II, its largest contributors were the US, Saudi Arabia, the United Kingdom, and Egypt.
The Security Council issued an ultimatum to Iraq on 29 November 1990, expiring on 15 January 1991, to withdraw from Kuwait, with member-states thereafter empowered to use "all necessary means" to force withdrawal. On 17 January, the coalition began aerial and naval bombardment of Iraq and Kuwait, which continued for five weeks. Iraq fired missiles at Israel and at Saudi Arabia, but failed to provoke the Israeli military response it hoped would split Muslim-majority countries from the coalition. On 24 February 1991, the coalition launched a decisive ground assault liberating Kuwait and promptly advancing into Iraqi territory. The coalition halted its ground advance after one hundred hours, and declared a ceasefire.
In the war's aftermath, the Iraqi government suppressed a series of uprisings until 5 April 1991. Coalition countries responded by establishing two no-fly zones over Iraq's north and south. The United Nations Special Commission sought to end Iraq's weapons of mass destruction programs. In 2003, another US-led coalition invaded and occupied Iraq, beginning the Iraq War.
The conflict's environmental impact included Iraqi forces causing over six hundred oil well fires and the largest oil spill in history until that point. US bombing and demolition of Iraqi chemical weapons facilities were concluded to be the primary cause of Gulf War syndrome, experienced by over 40% of US veterans.

The conflict introduced live news broadcasts from the front lines of the battle, principally by American network CNN. It earned the nickname Video Game War, after the daily broadcast of images from cameras onboard American military aircraft. Considered the "first space war", the US adopted satellite-based reconnaissance, communications, and GPS navigation. Precision-guided munitions and a stealth aircraft, the F-117 Nighthawk, were novel features of the air war. The largest tank battles in American military history were fought, surpassed only by the Battle of the Bulge: the Battle of Medina Ridge, the Battle of Norfolk, and the Battle of 73 Easting.




--- [History of Gulf War - Timeline - Historydraft] ---
Thursday Aug 2, 1990 to Thursday Feb 28, 1991 Iraq, Kuwait, Saudi Arabia The Gulf War (2 August 1990 – 28 February 1991), codenamed Operation Desert Shield (2 August 1990 – 17 January 1991) for operations leading to the buildup of troops and defense of Saudi Arabia and Operation Desert Storm (17 January 1991 – 28 February 1991) in its combat phase, was a war waged by coalition forces from 35 nations led by the United States against Iraq in response to Iraq's invasion and annexation of Kuwait arising from oil pricing and production disputes. The war is also known under other names, such as the Persian Gulf War, First Gulf War, Gulf War I, Kuwait War, First Iraq War or Iraq War, before the term "Iraq War" became identified instead with the post-2003 Iraq War. On 22 May 1984, President Reagan was briefed on the project conclusions in the Oval Office by William Flynn Martin who had served as the head of the NSC staff that organized the study. The full declassified presentation can be seen here. The conclusions were threefold: first, oil stocks needed to be increased among members of the International Energy Agency and, if necessary, released early in the event of oil market disruption; second, the United States needed to beef up the security of friendly Arab states in the region; and third, an embargo should be placed on sales of military equipment to Iran and Iraq. The plan was approved by President Reagan and later affirmed by the G-7 leaders headed by the United Kingdom's Prime Minister, Margaret Thatcher, in the London Summit of 1984. The plan was implemented and became the basis for US preparedness to respond to the Iraqi occupation of Kuwait in 1991. On 15 July 1990, Saddam's government laid out its combined objections to the Arab League, including that policy moves were costing Iraq $1 billion a year, that Kuwait was still using the Rumaila oil field, that loans made by the UAE and Kuwait could not be considered debts to its "Arab brothers". The result of the Jeddah talks was an Iraqi demand for $10 billion to cover the lost revenues from Rumaila; Kuwait offered $500 million. The Iraqi response was to immediately order an invasion, which started on 2 August 1990 with the bombing of Kuwait's capital, Kuwait City. On 2 August 1990 the Iraqi Army invaded and occupied Kuwait, which was met with international condemnation and brought immediate economic sanctions against Iraq by members of the UN Security Council. Together with the UK prime minister Margaret Thatcher, who had resisted the invasion by Argentina of the Falkland Islands a decade earlier, American President George H. W. Bush deployed US forces into Saudi Arabia, and urged other countries to send their own forces to the scene. On 3 August 1990, the Arab League passed its own resolution, which called for a solution to the conflict from within the league, and warned against outside intervention. Iraq and Libya were the only two Arab League states that opposed the resolution for Iraq to withdraw from Kuwait; the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) opposed it as well. On 6 August, Resolution 661 placed economic sanctions on Iraq. Resolution 665 followed soon after, which authorized a naval blockade to enforce the sanctions. It said the "use of measures commensurate to the specific circumstances as may be necessary ... to halt all inward and outward maritime shipping in order to inspect and verify their cargoes and destinations and to ensure strict implementation of resolution 661". Out of fear the Iraqi Army could launch an invasion of Saudi Arabia, US President George H. W. Bush quickly announced that the US would launch a "wholly defensive" mission to prevent Iraq from invading Saudi Arabia, under the codename Operation Desert Shield. The operation began on 7 August 1990, when US troops were sent to Saudi Arabia, due also to the request of its monarch, King Fahd, who had earlier called for US military assistance. The Emir (Jaber Al-Ahmad Al-Jaber Al-Sabah) and key ministers were able to get out and head south along the highway for refuge in Saudi Arabia. Iraqi ground forces consolidated their control of Kuwait City, then headed south and redeployed along the Saudi border. After the decisive Iraqi victory, Saddam initially installed a puppet regime known as the "Provisional Government of Free Kuwait" before installing his cousin Ali Hassan al-Majid as Kuwait's governor on 8 August. On 12 August 1990, Saddam "propose that all cases of occupation, and those cases that have been portrayed as occupation, in the region, be resolved simultaneously". Specifically, he called for Israel to withdraw from occupied territories in Palestine, Syria, and Lebanon, Syria to withdraw from Lebanon, and "mutual withdrawals by Iraq and Iran and arrangement for the situation in Kuwait". On 23 August, Saddam appeared on state television with Western hostages to whom he had refused exit visas. In the video, he asks a young British boy, Stuart Lockwood, whether he is getting his milk, and goes on to say, through his interpreter, "We hope your presence as guests here will not be for too long. Your presence here, and in other places, is meant to prevent the scourge of war". To ensure that economic backing, Baker went on an 11-day journey to nine countries in September 1990, which the press dubbed "The Tin Cup Trip". The first stop was Saudi Arabia, which a month before had already granted permission to the United States to use its facilities. The US and the UN gave several public justifications for involvement in the conflict, the most prominent being the Iraqi violation of Kuwaiti territorial integrity. In addition, the US moved to support its ally Saudi Arabia, whose importance in the region, and as a key supplier of oil, made it of considerable geopolitical importance. Shortly after the Iraqi invasion, US Defense Secretary Dick Cheney made the first of several visits to Saudi Arabia where King Fahd requested US military assistance. During a speech in a special joint session of the US Congress given on 11 September 1990, US President George Bush summed up the reasons with the following remarks: "Within three days, 120,000 Iraqi troops with 850 tanks had poured into Kuwait and moved south to threaten Saudi Arabia. It was then that I decided to act to check that aggression". A series of UN Security Council resolutions and Arab League resolutions were passed regarding Iraq's invasion of Kuwait. One of the most important was Resolution 678, passed on 29 November 1990, which gave Iraq a withdrawal deadline until 15 January 1991, and authorized "all necessary means to uphold and implement Resolution 660", and a diplomatic formulation authorizing the use of force if Iraq failed to comply. In December 1990, Iraq made a proposal to withdraw from Kuwait provided that foreign troops left the region and that an agreement was reached regarding the Palestinian problem and the dismantlement of both Israel's and Iraq's weapons of mass destruction. The White House rejected the proposal. On 14 January 1991, France proposed that the UN Security Council call for "a rapid and massive withdrawal" from Kuwait along with a statement to Iraq that Council members would bring their "active contribution" to a settlement of the region's other problems, "in particular, of the Arab–Israeli conflict and in particular to the Palestinian problem by convening, at an appropriate moment, an international conference" to assure "the security, stability and development of this region of the world". As the Scud attacks continued, the Israelis grew increasingly impatient, and considered taking unilateral military action against Iraq. On 22 January 1991, a Scud missile hit the Israeli city of Ramat Gan, after two coalition Patriots failed to intercept it. Three elderly people suffered fatal heart attacks, another 96 people were injured, and 20 apartment buildings were damaged. On 29 January, Iraqi forces attacked and occupied the lightly defended Saudi city of Khafji with tanks and infantry. The Battle of Khafji ended two days later when the Iraqis were driven back by the Saudi Arabian National Guard, supported by Qatari forces and US Marines. The allied forces used extensive artillery fire. Task Force 1-41 Infantry was a U.S. Army heavy battalion task force from the 2nd Armored Division. It was the spearhead of VII Corps, consisting primarily of the 1st Battalion, 41st Infantry Regiment, 3rd Battalion, 66th Armor Regiment, and the 4th Battalion, 3rd Field Artillery Regiment. Task Force 1–41 was the first coalition force to breach the Saudi Arabian border on 15 February 1991, and to conduct ground combat operations in Iraq engaging in direct and indirect fire fights with the enemy on 17 February 1991. On 22 February 1991, Iraq agreed to a Soviet-proposed ceasefire agreement. The agreement called for Iraq to withdraw troops to pre-invasion positions within six weeks following a total ceasefire, and called for monitoring of the ceasefire and withdrawal to be overseen by the UN Security Council. Shortly afterwards, the US VII Corps, in full strength and spearheaded by the 2nd Armored Cavalry Regiment, launched an armored attack into Iraq early on 24 February, just to the west of Kuwait, taking Iraqi forces by surprise. Simultaneously, the US XVIII Airborne Corps launched a sweeping "left-hook" attack across southern Iraq's largely undefended desert, led by the US 3rd Armored Cavalry Regiment and the 24th Infantry Division. On 27 February, Saddam ordered a retreat from Kuwait, and President Bush declared it liberated. However, an Iraqi unit at Kuwait International Airport appeared not to have received the message and fiercely resisted. US Marines had to fight for hours before securing the airport, after which Kuwait was declared secure. On March 15, 1991, the US-led coalition restored to power Sheikh Jaber al-Ahmad al-Sabah, the unelected authoritarian ruler of Kuwait. Kuwaiti democracy advocates had been calling for restoration of Parliament that the Emir had suspended in 1986.


--- [France propose - Gulf War - Historydraft] ---
Gulf War France propose France On 14 January 1991, France proposed that the UN Security Council call for "a rapid and massive withdrawal" from Kuwait along with a statement to Iraq that Council members would bring their "active contribution" to a settlement of the region's other problems, "in particular, of the Arab–Israeli conflict and in particular to the Palestinian problem by convening, at an appropriate moment, an international conference" to assure "the security, stability and development of this region of the world".


--- [APO 09616 IRAQ or KUWAIT 1991 Army Cover OPERATION DESERT ...] ---
Picture 1 of 2 Gallery Picture 1 of 2 APO 09616 IRAQ or KUWAIT 1991 Army Cover OPERATION DESERT STORM 85th Hospital US $19.99 Condition: Oops! Looks like we're having trouble connecting to our server. Refresh your browser window to try again. Shipping: US $2.00 USPS First Class Package International. International shipment of items may be subject to customs processing and additional charges. Located in: Weaverville, North Carolina, United States Delivery: Estimated between Mon, Mar 16 and Tue, Mar 31 to 60388 Returns: Seller does not accept returns. Payments: Special financing available. Learn more- for PayPal Credit, opens in a new window or tab Shop with confidence About this item Seller assumes all responsibility for this listing. eBay item number:395545550076 Item specifics - Country of Origin - Iraq - Postal History - APO - Army - Hospital - Place of Origin - United States - Color - White - Country of Manufacture - United States - Grade - Ungraded - Certification - Uncertified - Denomination - Free - Year of Issue - 1991-2000 - Cover - Operation Desert Storm - Era - Gulf War - Quality - Used - State - Colorado - Country - Iraq - Topic - Military, War - Cancellation Type - Soldier's Mail - Military - Officer Item description from the seller Popular categories from this store Seller feedback (41,254) - n***i (117)- Feedback left by buyer.Past 6 monthsVerified purchaseThe item arrived promptly and in perfect condition. It was exactly as described in the listing, carefully packaged, and delivered within the expected timeframe. Excellent communication from the seller as well, making the entire transaction smooth and reliable. Highly recommended seller, would definitely buy from again Very satisfied with this purchase! The product arrived on time, matched the description perfectly, and was well-packaged to ensure it arrived safely. - b***n (22)- Feedback left by buyer.Past monthVerified purchaseI'm a big proponent of attention and customer service. And Nalwife did not disappoint ... in fact, Nalwife exceeded my expectations. Not only did Nalwife acknowledge receipt of my order and confirm mailing of my order, Nalwife also rated me as a good customer. And I received the nicest email. My order arrived on time and I couldn't be happier with my purchase. I have to stop now, because I have to browse Nalwife's ebay store. - 7***e (2757)- Feedback left by buyer.Past yearVerified purchaseIncredible seller! Amazing service, exceptional communication, wonderful condition, professional packaging excellent appearance. The Item exactly as described and a great value with extremely fast shipping. High quality Item and most Highly Recommend seller! Cdr. Parkhurst was one of my best CO's! He went on to make Capt. of other ships. This is a prized item for my scrapbook my wife is making me Cdr. Rick Wilson USN RetiredUSS FORT FISHER LSD-40 Naval Cover 1982 SIGNED Cachet (#396332845730) - a***a (7382)- Feedback left by buyer.Past monthVerified purchaseAwesome card - just as described - an all-around excellent seller, and a super-smooth, super-perfect, 5 star transaction! The card was packed well, shipped fast, and arrived/was delivered sooner than expected. Thanks! - r***1 (1210)- Feedback left by buyer.Past monthVerified purchaseGreat seller, shipped timely, well packaged ...a good value all as described thx - c***m (1923)- Feedback left by buyer.Past 6 monthsVerified purchaseExcellent eBay seller! Item received exactly as described, perfect condition, well packaged, and handled with care. Also, GREAT COMMUNICATION! A pleasure to do business with. Thank you! A+++++ - 7***h (24)- Feedback left by buyer.Past 6 monthsVerified purchaseThe seller is quick to respond and has a very accurate postings. He is patient as I was having delivery issues (not related to the shipper) and had a lot of questions. It was packaged safely and I am so glad I found this WW2 envelope as it was sent by my late grandfather.NAVY #3505 Biak Island, New Guinea 1945 Censored WWII Naval Cover Sailor's Mail (#234583235297) - e***l (201)- Feedback left by buyer.Past 6 monthsVerified purchaseItem as advertised. Packaged well. Quick Shipment. Great communication. Very smooth transaction. Thanks!!! More to explore : - Kuwait Stamps Cover Pre-1961, - First Day Cover Iraq Stamps, - Celebrities First Day Cover Iraq Stamps, - Politicians First Day Cover Iraq Stamps, - First Day Cover Kuwait Stamps (1961-Now), - Iraq Stamps, - Used First Day Cover Kuwait Stamps (1961-Now), - Iraq Olympics Postal Stamps, - Used Fiscal, Revenue Iraq Stamps, - Iraq Military & War Postal Stamps


--- [Persian Gulf War | Summary, Dates, Combatants, Casualties ...] ---
Persian Gulf War What incident triggered the Persian Gulf War? What was the result of Operation Desert Storm? What was Operation Desert Sabre? News • Persian Gulf War, (1990–91), international conflict that was triggered by Iraq’s invasion of Kuwait on August 2, 1990. Iraq’s leader, Saddam Hussein, ordered the invasion and occupation of Kuwait with the apparent aim of acquiring that nation’s large oil reserves, canceling a large debt Iraq owed Kuwait, and expanding Iraqi power in the region. It was the first major international crisis of the post-Cold War era, and the U.S.-led response would set important precedents for the use of military force over subsequent decades. The Iraqi invasion of Kuwait Tensions in the Persian Gulf began to build during the summer of 1990, with Iraq adopting an increasingly belligerent tone toward both Kuwait and members of its ruling Ṣabāḥ dynasty. On July 17 Saddam launched a televised verbal attack on Kuwait and the United Arab Emirates for exceeding the oil export quotas that had been set for them by OPEC. A day later Kuwait was accused of stealing oil from the Al-Rumaylah oil field, which straddles the border between Iraq and Kuwait. As criticism mounted, talks between the two countries in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia, broke down on August 1. Hours later, early on August 2, Iraqi armoured divisions invaded Kuwait despite personal assurances from Saddam to Egyptian Pres. Hosni Mubarak that Iraq would avoid using force to press its claims against Kuwait. Active resistance to the invasion lasted about 14 hours, during which time an estimated 4,200 Kuwaitis were killed in combat. Although remnants of Kuwait’s 20,000-man army maintained a spirited defense over the next 36 hours, the Iraqi takeover of Kuwait city was completed with little difficulty. The fiercest opposition came at Dasman Palace, the royal residence of emir Sheikh Jābir al-Aḥmad al-Jābir al-Ṣabāḥ, which only yielded to the Iraqis after hours of bitter hand-to-hand fighting in which the emir’s younger brother, Sheikh Fahad, was killed. At 11:11 am on August 3 Kuwait Radio fell silent with these words: “Arabs, brothers, beloved brothers, Muslims. Hurry to our aid.” Sheikh Jābir, his cabinet, and senior members of the Ṣabāḥ family fled to Saudi Arabia to establish a government-in-exile. Crown prince Saʿd al-ʿAbd Allāh al-Sālim al-Ṣabāḥ quickly emerged as the dominant personality within this group, and finance minister Sheikh Ali al-Khalifah al-Ṣabāḥ took control of most of Kuwait’s overseas assets, which amounted to some $100 billion. As many as 350,000 Kuwaiti refugees also fled south into Saudi Arabia. On August 4 Iraqi occupation forces appointed Col. Alaa Hussain Ali as head of state of Kuwait; he was backed by a nine-member cabinet of “revolutionaries” who, Iraq said, were responsible for ousting remnants of the previous regime. On August 8 the Iraqis installed the Provisional Free Government of Kuwait, a body that was established to give credence to Iraq’s dubious claim that the invasion was conducted at the request of Kuwaitis opposed to the Ṣabāḥ dynasty. On August 10 foreign diplomats were given a two-week deadline to close their embassies in Kuwait and move to Baghdad. On August 28 Saddam declared that Kuwait was now the 19th province of Iraq. Place-names were “Iraqized,” and the southern Iraqi province of Al-Baṣrah was extended to include the Kuwait side of the Al-Rumaylah oil field as well as the islands of Būbiyān and Al-Warbah at the head of the Shaṭṭ Al-ʿArab waterway. During the occupation of Kuwait, Iraqi troops began a systematic campaign of pillage, rape, torture, murder, and theft of Kuwait’s economic assets. The Iraqi occupation government announced the death penalty for looters but condoned the removal to Baghdad of medical equipment from hospitals, the assets of the Kuwait Institute for Scientific Research, treasures of Islamic art from the Kuwait National Museum, and $1.6 billion in gold and cash from the Central Bank of Kuwait. Amnesty International reported that Iraqi soldiers had carried out hundreds of extrajudicial killings and taken several thousand Kuwaiti civilians prisoner. One widely circulated story about Iraqi soldiers removing newborn infants from hospital incubators was eventually debunked as a fabrication, but the truth did not emerge until long after the conflict had been settled. The international response to the invasion of Kuwait The diplomatic response to the invasion was swift. On August 6 the United Nations Security Council passed Resolution 661, which imposed a ban on all trade with Iraq and called on UN member countries to protect the assets of the legitimate government of Kuwait. A day later the first U.S. troops were sent to Saudi Arabia, while Mubarak invited Arab leaders to Cairo for an emergency summit. On August 10, 12 of the 21 Arab League countries passed a resolution condemning Iraq’s invasion of Kuwait and endorsing the UN resolution. Among those Arab states sympathetic to Iraq were Jordan, Yemen, Sudan, Tunisia, and Algeria as well as the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO). The key supporters of Kuwait, apart from Saudi Arabia and the Arab Gulf states, were Egypt and Syria, whose leaders had improved mutual relations in the months preceding the invasion. Saddam countered the Arab League resolution on August 12 by declaring that “all occupation problems, and those portrayed as occupation problems in the Middle East, can be resolved simultaneously and on the same principles and bases as should be set out by the UN Security Council.” Saddam also used the crisis as an unlikely opportunity to conclude peace with Iran. On August 15 he announced that Iraq was ready to accept Iranian terms for the settlement of the Iran-Iraq War: the withdrawal of Iraqi troops from occupied Iranian territory, resolution of the Shaṭṭ Al-ʿArab waterway dispute, and a prisoner-of-war exchange. The Soviet Union, at first guarded in its response to the invasion, on September 3 expressed its support for the U.S. military presence in the Gulf. More than 600,000 expatriates, including some 7,000 Western nationals, remained in Kuwait after the invasion, having been barred from leaving the country by Iraqi occupation authorities. The Iraqi regime began rounding up hundreds of Westerners and holding some of them at strategic military and industrial sites as “human shields” in the event of attack. On August 28, the same day that Iraq declared that it had annexed Kuwait, Saddam said that women and children would be allowed to leave. The plight of the remaining hostages resulted in a procession of Western politicians and celebrities to Baghdad. Among those appealing for the release of the hostages were former British prime minister Edward Heath, Labour politician Tony Benn, American heavyweight boxing champ Muhammad Ali, and British singer-songwriter Yusuf Islam (Cat Stevens). In a sudden and dramatic move, on December 6 Saddam announced that all remaining hostages would be released. Although this put the Iraqi government in compliance with Security Council Resolution 674—which demanded that “Iraqi authorities and occupying forces immediately cease and desist from taking third State nationals hostage”—there remained the matter of Iraq’s continued occupation of Kuwait and the potential threat to Saudi Arabia, the world’s largest oil producer and exporter. Operation Desert Shield Saddam’s conquest of Kuwait had been achieved in short order, and he seemed poised to continue his military push into Saudi Arabia. Conquering Saudi Arabia would give Saddam control of more than 40 percent of the world’s oil reserves as well as two of the holiest sites in the Islamic world, Mecca and Medina. With Iraqi troops on the Saudi border, King Fahd, in an unprecedented move, invited Western and Arab forces to deploy in the kingdom in support of the Saudi defense forces. The U.S. immediately dispatched elements of its Rapid Deployment Force. This included the “ready brigade” of the 82nd Airborne Division, the U.S. Marine Corps First Expeditionary Force, and two squadrons of U.S. Air Force F-15s. Two U.S. Navy carrier battle groups were also deployed to the Persian Gulf. The U.S. ground contingent was a relatively lightly equipped “trip wire” force; even if Saudi Arabian and other Arab armies had rushed to the area, it is unlikely that the hastily assembled defenders could have repelled a concerted Iraqi attack. Nevertheless, this initial U.S. deployment deterred Saddam from attacking Saudi Arabia and initiating a war with the U.S. and its allies. On paper, the Iraqi military looked formidable. Its army was the fifth largest in the world, with some 950,000 personnel, 5,500 main battle tanks, 10,000 additional armoured vehicles, and nearly 4,000 artillery pieces. The Iraqi air force consisted of some 40,000 personnel and 689 combat aircraft. Both the army and air force had extensive combat experience from the Iran-Iraq War (1980–88), including the large-scale use of chemical weapons. Iraq was believed to also have a significant stockpile of biological agents, most notably weaponized botulinum toxin and anthrax. In addition, Iraq had a force of modified Soviet-made Scud surface-to-surface missiles mounted on mobile launchers. These missiles had an effective range of 185 miles (300 km) and were capable of carrying a payload of conventional explosives as well as chemical or biological weapons. Over the following months the U.S. military carried out its largest overseas deployment since World War II. By mid-November the U.S. had more than 240,000 troops in the Gulf and another 200,000 on the way, and the United Kingdom had sent more than 25,000, Egypt 20,000, and France 5,500. Some 25 other countries, including Canada, Syria, Bangladesh, and Morocco, had committed troops and weapons to the military buildup that was designated Operation Desert Shield. On November 29, 1990, the UN Security Council passed Resolution 678 by a vote of 12 to 2, sanctioning the use of force if the Iraqis had not left Kuwait by January 15, 1991. Only Cuba and Yemen voted against the resolution, with China abstaining. This was the first UN authorization of the use of force since 1950, when the Security Council approved military action against North Korea after its unprovoked attack on South Korea. With this resolution in place, the U.S. offered to engage in a dialogue with Saddam to extend the possibility of a peaceful settlement based on a timely Iraqi withdrawal. Gen. Colin Powell, chairman of the U.S. Joint Chiefs of Staff, had advised Bush that if the U.S. wished to use its military to liberate Kuwait, several conditions needed to be fulfilled. The force employed must be overwhelming and utilized as a last resort, the goals must be clear and accompanied by a coherent exit strategy, and the operation must have broad domestic and international support. In time these criteria would come to be known as the Powell Doctrine. Powell had served as a field-grade officer in Vietnam, the last major U.S. conflict, and had witnessed the dangers of “mission creep”—that is, the growth of a military operation beyond its original stated goals without a clear end. The Powell Doctrine was intended to prevent a repeat of the Vietnam War, and, as it was implemented in the Persian Gulf War, it was wholly successful. Another legacy of Vietnam was a debate over the war-making powers of the president of the United States. Article I of the U.S. Constitution gives only Congress the power “to declare war” and “to provide for calling forth the Militia to execute the Laws of the Union, suppress Insurrections and repel Invasions.” Yet Article II says that the president is “commander in chief of the Army and Navy” and has the power, with the consent of the Senate, to make treaties with other nations. That ambiguity came to a head in 1973 during the Vietnam War, when Congress—over Pres. Richard Nixon’s veto—passed the War Powers Act. That legislation required the executive branch to consult with Congress prior to major deployments of U.S. forces, but it was generally resisted or outright ignored by subsequent presidents. Bush, for his part, eventually sought congressional approval for the U.S. military operation in the Persian Gulf. On January 12, 1991, the Authorization for Use of Military Force Against Iraq Resolution was passed by the House (250–183) and the Senate (52–47). It cited UN Security Council Resolution 678 as its casus belli, and Bush signed the measure into law on January 14. The UN deadline for Iraqi withdrawal from Kuwait was the following day. Operation Desert Storm The coalition air offensive and Iraqi Scud attacks Gen. Norman Schwarzkopf, commander in chief of U.S. Central Command(CENTCOM), directed the coalition military campaign, and his staff had devised a two-part operation that was designed to wear down Iraqi defenses before rapidly enveloping and destroying them. The two phases of Operation Desert Storm were a coalition air operation (January 17–February 24, 1991) and a ground offensive dubbed Operation Desert Sabre (February 24–28). Allied forces had three main objectives during the air campaign: to establish air supremacy, to destroy strategic targets, and to degrade Iraqi ground forces. Coalition pilots had gained air supremacy by January 28. The Iraqi air defense system of aircraft, surface-to-air missiles, antiaircraft guns, and ground-controlled interception radars was rendered ineffective. Iraqi losses included some 35 aircraft downed in air-to-air combat, at least 100 destroyed on the ground, and 115 flown to Iran to avoid destruction. Allied losses totaled 39 aircraft; none were lost in air combat. Once coalition air forces had established control of the skies, they began destroying targets vital to the Iraqi war effort. These included command, control, and communications facilities; ammunition (including chemical and biological stores); petroleum, oil, and lubricant stockpiles; and manufacturing plants. Allied aircraft also engaged in a protracted cat-and-mouse pursuit of Iraq’s mobile Scud missile launchers. It was estimated that the air campaign neutralized some 30 percent of the Iraqi ground forces in the combat theatre. While the air offensive was ongoing, coalition naval operations began in the Persian Gulf. The main objectives of the allied naval campaign were: to maintain a defensive screen around the six U.S. Navy aircraft carriers that were conducting operations in the gulf; to destroy the small but potentially effective Iraqi coastal defense navy; to clear Iraqi submarine mines from the combat theatre; and to threaten a major amphibious assault on Iraqi forces in Kuwait. All of these objectives were fully achieved. By February 11 coalition forces had sunk the last Iraqi (and captured Kuwaiti) naval units. It was believed that coalition minesweepers had largely neutralized the threat of Iraqi sea mines, but on February 18 a pair of U.S. ships—the amphibious assault ship USS Tripoli and the guided missile cruiser USS Princeton—struck mines and suffered significant damage. On February 25 Iraqi ground forces launched a pair of Silkworm antiship missiles at the U.S. battleship Missouri. One of the missiles splashed harmlessly into the sea, and the other was intercepted by Sea Dart missiles fired from the British destroyer HMS Gloucester. The threat of an amphibious assault by the 4th and 5th Marine Expeditionary brigades (17,000 personnel) tied down six Iraqi divisions defending Kuwait’s coastline. On January 18 Iraq responded to the Allied air offensive by launching Scud missiles at the Israeli cities of Tel Aviv and Haifa in an effort to draw Israel into the conflict and splinter the Arab coalition. Two days later Scuds were fired at targets in Saudi Arabia. Between January 18 and February 25 Iraq fired 39 missiles at Israel, killing at least 3 Israeli civilians and injuring as many as 200. The U.S. exerted tremendous diplomatic pressure on Israel to refrain from retaliating directly against Iraq; Israel agreed but in exchange requested the immediate deployment of U.S. Patriot antiballistic missile defense systems from Europe to supplement existing Israeli Patriot batteries. The effectiveness of the Patriots remained an open question decades after the war concluded. The U.S. had initially boasted of a near perfect performance, but the Patriots’ interception rate was soon downgraded by the U.S. Army to just 40 percent. Israeli military officials and the U.S. Government Accountability Office disputed even this modest estimate, stating that fewer than 10 percent of Patriots had successfully engaged and destroyed targeted Scuds. Operation Desert Sabre CENTCOM took every opportunity to convince Saddam that a seaborne assault on the Kuwaiti coast would be a major part of the inevitable allied offensive, and Schwarzkopf himself made a highly publicized visit to marine amphibious units in the Persian Gulf to enhance that deception. In fact, the actual attack would be a two-pronged flanking maneuver that was designed to quickly envelop Iraqi forces and neutralize their offensive capability. One wing of the attack would move deep into the Iraqi desert, far to the west of Kuwait. It would then execute a “left hook,” advancing to the Euphrates River before swinging east along the river toward Basra, thus cutting off the Iraqi forces in Kuwait. The other wing would concentrate allied armour against the Iraqi armoured reserves, destroy them, and push ahead to the coast. Operation Desert Sabre, the coalition ground offensive, began on February 24, 1991, with an advance to the Euphrates by the U.S. XVIII Airborne Corps (82nd and 101st Airborne and 24th Infantry divisions, plus the French Daguet Division). Meanwhile, the 1st and 2nd Marine divisions, along with Egyptian, Saudi, and other allied units, attacked Kuwait to tie down Iraqi forces. The main coalition attack was launched on February 25 by the U.S. VII Corps (1st and 3rd Armored, 1st Cavalry, and 1st Infantry divisions, as well as the 1st British Armoured Division). The 1st and 3rd Armored, 1st (Mechanized) Infantry, and British Armoured divisions broke through the defenses on the Saudi-Iraqi border, while the U.S. 24th (Mechanized) Infantry Division drove north to link up with the 101st Airborne Division, which was holding a blocking position on the Euphrates between Al-Samāwah and Al-Nāṣiriyyah. That same day the 1st and 2nd Marine divisions, having cleared extensive Iraqi minefields on the Kuwaiti frontier, sharply rebuffed a series of Iraqi armoured counterattacks and broke through to capture the airport in Kuwait city. On February 26–27 the VII Corps, along with the 1st British Armoured and 24th U.S. Infantry divisions, engaged and destroyed the Iraqi armoured reserves, including Saddam’s elite Republican Guard divisions, near Basra. The remaining Iraqi forces in Kuwait collapsed and fled to Basra, suffering heavy casualties and forcing Saddam to accept a cease-fire on February 28. Operation Desert Sabre lasted just 100 hours. Large numbers of Iraqi troops surrendered without fighting, collapsing under the cumulative effects of the prolonged coalition air campaign and the concentrated firepower and speed of the ground advance. Some 41 Iraqi divisions—30 infantry, 4 mechanized, and 7 armoured—were effectively wiped out, and the material losses suffered by the Iraqi military were staggering. Iraqi equipment captured or destroyed included 3,008 tanks, 1,856 armoured vehicles, and 2,140 artillery pieces. The Iraqi military performed poorly for several reasons. First, Iraqi forces were wholly outclassed by the armies that opposed them. Many Iraqi troops were war-weary conscripts, ordered to fight in a war that they did not support, and trained in static defense. Their weapons included some modern Western, Chinese, and Soviet systems but were mostly older Soviet models. In contrast, the all-volunteer armies of the United States and Britain were equipped with a variety of cutting-edge weapons systems. The F-117A Nighthawk “stealth fighter” went into combat for just the second time (its debut was in December 1989 during the campaign to oust Panamanian leader Gen. Manuel Noriega). Representing just over 2 percent of the allied attack aircraft in the Persian Gulf, F-117s hit more than 30 percent of the assigned targets on the first day of the air war. The Royal Air Force Tornado made its combat debut in the Persian Gulf War, and the U.S. Marine Corps Harrier saw its first major action. With the retirement of the U.S. SR-71 Blackbird reconnaissance aircraft just months before the outbreak of the war, coalition forces faced a critical shortage of tactical battlefield intelligence. This gap was filled with experimental unmanned aerial vehicles), which saw their first military use by U.S. forces during the war. Drones, such as the RQ-2 Pioneer, provided real-time surveillance and battle damage assessment and heralded a new era in aerial reconnaissance. Another factor in the Iraqi defeat was the overall ineffectiveness of Iraq’s arsenal of Scud missiles and chemical weapons. Although the U.S. Patriot systems could claim a mixed interception record at best, many Scuds failed to hit their targets because of modifications that the Iraqis had made to the missiles. By increasing the Scuds’ fuel load and reducing the size of their warheads, the Iraqis had greatly enhanced the range of the missiles at the expense of flight stability and any semblance of accuracy. The Scuds were armed only with conventional explosives because Iraq had not yet developed an effective chemical warhead. Iraq’s failure to use its stockpile of battlefield chemical weapons was at least in part due to coalition air strikes, which destroyed chemical stocks as well as aircraft and artillery delivery systems. Another likely consideration for Saddam and Iraqi commanders was the very real possibility that Israel would respond to any chemical attack on its cities by utilizing its nuclear arsenal. A final element in the outcome of the war was Iraq’s strategic isolation. Saddam effectively had no allies, and he faced a strong U.S.-led coalition that included most major Arab powers. U.S. diplomats managed to restrain Israel from retaliating in the face of Iraqi provocation, thus preserving the existing coalition and negating the possibility of the war expanding into a broader Arab-Israeli conflict. Saddam also had to retain a significant portion of his military forces, most notably some veteran Republican Guard units, near Baghdad to defend against any domestic challenges to his rule. Casualties, Kuwaiti oil fires, and Gulf War syndrome There are no official figures for the Iraqi military operation, leading to vastly differing figures of combatants and casualties. Estimates of the number of Iraqi troops in the Kuwait theatre range from 180,000 to 630,000, and estimates of Iraqi military deaths range from 8,000 to 50,000. Allied casualties, by contrast, were remarkably light. Just 147 U.S. personnel and 47 British troops were killed in action; for the duration of Operations Desert Shield and Desert Storm, U.S. noncombat deaths actually exceeded combat fatalities in the Kuwaiti theatre. Approximately 1,000 coalition troops were wounded. During their retreat from Kuwait, Iraqi troops set fire to oil storage installations and more than 700 of Kuwait’s 950 oil wells, creating an environmental disaster that affected the entire region. A pall of dense smoke covered Kuwait, causing a slight fall in temperature and blotting out sunlight in Kuwait city. The fires emitted a toxic mixture of hydrogen sulfide, carbon monoxide, and sulfur dioxide. Below the smoke, pollution was severe, with the number of soot particles about 1,000 times higher than normal. In nearby Bahrain May temperatures were 7 °F (4 °C) cooler than normal. Particles from the fires were detected more than 600 miles (965 km) away, and the massive injection of sulfur dioxide into the atmosphere caused acid rain to fall as far away as the Black Sea and Pakistan. By November the fires, which had consumed about six million barrels of oil per day, had been extinguished, and temperatures and air quality in the area returned to normal values. Exposure to the fires was proposed as one possible cause of Gulf War syndrome, a cluster of illnesses that were reported by some veterans of the conflict. As many as 300,000 of the 700,000 troops who served in the Middle East during Operations Desert Shield and Desert Storm complained of a variety of symptoms that included fatigue, anxiety, muscle and joint pain, headaches, memory loss, and post-traumatic stress reactions. While these claims were initially dismissed as psychological in nature, Gulf War veterans continued to insist that they were experiencing an array of chronic and debilitating maladies. Researchers eventually concluded that Gulf War syndrome was likely caused by exposure to a class of extremely toxic chemicals known as anticholinesterases. Anticholinesterases to which Gulf War veterans could have been exposed include nerve toxins such as sarin, the prophylactic anti-nerve-toxin drug carbamate pyridostigmine bromide, and organophosphate- or carbamate-containing insecticides. A 2016 study by the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs found that veterans of the Persian Gulf War continued to report poorer health than those who had served in the military at the same time but had not deployed. Aftermath and Iraq’s alleged weapons of mass destruction The terms of the peace were, inter alia, that Iraq recognize Kuwait’s sovereignty and that it divest itself of all weapons of mass destruction—i.e., nuclear, biological, and chemical—and all missiles with ranges exceeding 90 miles (150 km). Pending complete compliance, economic sanctions would continue. In the aftermath of Iraq’s defeat, Kurds in the north of the country and Shiʿis in the south rose in a rebellion that was suppressed by Saddam with great brutality. These actions prompted the allies to prohibit Iraqi aircraft from operating in designated “no-fly” zones over these areas. As the other allies gradually left the coalition, U.S. and British aircraft continued to patrol Iraqi skies, and UN inspectors sought to guarantee that all illicit weapons were destroyed. Iraq’s failure to cooperate with inspectors led in 1998 to a brief resumption of hostilities (Operation Desert Fox). Iraq thereafter refused to readmit inspectors into the country, and regular exchanges of fire between Iraqi forces and U.S. and British aircraft over the no-fly zones continued into the 21st century. In 2002 the United States sponsored a new UN resolution calling for the return of weapons inspectors, who then reentered Iraq in November. Member states of the UN Security Council, however, differed in their opinion of the degree to which Iraq had cooperated with inspections. - Also called: - Gulf War - Date: - January 16, 1991 - February 28, 1991 - Participants: - Egypt - France - Iraq - Kuwait - Saudi Arabia - Syria - United Kingdom - United States - On the Web: - Jewish Virtual Library - The Arab/Muslim World: The Gulf War (Feb. 11, 2026) On March 17, 2003, the United States and the United Kingdom, which had begun to mass troops on Iraq’s border, dispensed with further negotiations, and U.S. Pres. George W. Bush—seeking no further UN endorsement—issued an ultimatum demanding that Saddam step down from power and leave Iraq within 48 hours or face war; he even suggested that if Saddam did leave Iraq, U.S. forces might still be necessary to stabilize the region and to hunt for weapons of mass destruction. When Saddam refused to leave, U.S. and allied forces launched an attack on Iraq on March 20 and thus began what became known as the Iraq War.
