=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Mary Engle Pennington | National Inventors Hall of Fame® Inductee]
Mary Engle Pennington was a pioneer in the safe preservation, handling, storage and transportation of perishable foods. A bacteriological chemist, food scientist and refrigeration engineer, she devoted most of her career to the study of refrigeration and its application to food freshness and safety.
URL: https://www.invent.org/inductees/mary-engle-pennington

[Mary Engle Pennington - Wikipedia]
She was inducted into the National Women's Hall of Fame in 2002, the American Society of Heating, Refrigerating and Air-Conditioning Engineers Hall of Fame in 2007, [7] and the National Inventors Hall of Fame in 2018.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mary_Engle_Pennington

[Mary Pennington to Be Inducted into the National Inventors Hall of Fame]
A member of ASRE from 1920-1948, Pennington was elected Fellow in 1948. In 1919, President Herbert Hoover awarded her to the Notable Service Medal. She was awarded the American Chemical Society's Garvan Medal in 1940 and was inducted into the National Women's Hall of Fame in 2002. Pennington was inducted into the ASHRAE Hall of Fame in 2007.
URL: https://www.ashrae.org/news/esociety/mary-pennington-to-be-inducted-into-the-national-inventors-hall-of-fame

[Mary Engle Pennington - Engineering and Technology History Wiki]
She is also an inductee of both the National Women's Hall of Fame and the ASHRAE Hall of Fame. In 2018, she was inducted into the National Inventors Hall of Fame.
URL: https://ethw.org/Mary_Engle_Pennington

[Mary Engle Pennington: The Mother of Modern Food Preservation]
Apr 2, 2018 · This May, Pennington will be honored along with the rest of the 2018 class of inductees into the National Inventors Hall of Fame for her technological contributions to food storage and safety.
URL: https://ipwatchdog.com/2018/04/02/mary-engle-pennington-mother-modern-food-preservation/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Mary Engle Pennington | National Inventors Hall of Fame® Inductee] ---
Mary Engle Pennington Mary Engle Pennington was a pioneer in the safe preservation, handling, storage and transportation of perishable foods. A bacteriological chemist, food scientist and refrigeration engineer, she devoted most of her career to the study of refrigeration and its application to food freshness and safety. Her work has made a significant impact on the health and well-being of generations of Americans. Pennington was born in Nashville, Tennessee, in 1872. She discovered her love for science at just 12 years old after reading Rand’s “Medical Chemistry,” a textbook she had borrowed from her local library. She asked the private girls’ school she attended to offer a chemistry course, but the school’s headmistress denied her request because she believed that chemistry was not a field for girls or women to study. When Pennington turned 18, she enrolled at the University of Pennsylvania, where she earned a certificate of proficiency in chemistry and biology in 1892. At the time, the university did not award degrees to women. However, her academic record was so impressive, the university opted to admit Pennington to a graduate program. In 1895, she earned her doctorate in chemistry. In 1905, Pennington joined the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Bureau of Chemistry, which would later become the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). In 1906, she had the opportunity to apply for a position as chief of the Food Research Laboratory. Initially she was hesitant to apply for the job because she knew it was unlikely a woman would be selected. Despite this, she took the civil service examination at the encouragement of Bureau Chief Harvey Wiley, who changed Pennington’s name to “M.E. Pennington” to conceal her gender. After achieving the highest possible score, Pennington was offered the job. She became the first woman to serve as the FDA’s lab chief in 1906. Following the passage of 1906’s Pure Food and Drug Act, as lab chief, Pennington developed revolutionary standards for the safe processing of chicken and the safety procedures to help avoid bacterial contamination of milk. She researched and devised spoilage-free methods of storing and shipping poultry, eggs and other perishable foods, introducing methods that were adopted across the food handling industry. She also developed an efficient process for scaling, skinning, quick-freezing and dry-packing fish fillets immediately after the catch. When the U.S. entered World War I in 1917, Pennington was assigned to future President Herbert Hoover’s War Food Administration (WFA). The WFA was an agency that had been created to maximize food production and conservation during the war. “We are at war…we need food…and that food must be saved,” Pennington said in a letter addressed to the St. Louis Railway Club in 1917. Tasked with testing the storage and cooling systems of the nation’s 40,000 refrigerated railcars, Pennington experimented with different types of loading racks, ice bunkers and circulations systems to cool the cars evenly. Her research helped to establish national standards for ice-cooled refrigerator cars, set standards for construction and insulation, and solve the problem of humidity control in cold storage. Pennington’s patented inventions include a poultry-cooling rack, a bacteria-resistant method of treating eggs and a sterile food products container. Later in her career, she oversaw the design and construction of commercial and home refrigerators. In 1940, Pennington was awarded the Garvan Medal from the American Chemical Society, and in 1959, she became the first woman to be inducted into the American Poultry Historical Society Hall of Fame. Having spent more than 40 years improving upon the government’s understanding of food safety, Pennington was recognized in her time as the leading authority on the handling, transport and storage of perishable foods and the application of refrigeration. In 1947, she was elected fellow of the American Society of Refrigeration Engineers, where she was an active committee member and served as a contributor to the organization’s publications.


--- [Mary Engle Pennington - Wikipedia] ---
Mary Engle Pennington (October 8, 1872 – December 27, 1952) was an American bacteriological chemist, food scientist and refrigeration engineer. She was an innovator in the preservation, handling, storage, and transportation of perishable foods and the first female lab chief at the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. She was awarded 5 patents (3 of which were shared), received the Notable Service Medal from President Herbert Hoover, and received the Garvin-Olin Medal from the American Chemical Society. She is an inductee of the National Inventor's Hall of Fame, the National Women's Hall of Fame and the ASHRAE Hall of Fame.


--- [Mary Pennington to Be Inducted into the National Inventors Hall of Fame] ---
From eSociety, April 2018 Mary Engle Pennington, ASRE Fellow and member of the ASHRAE Hall of Fame, earned her Ph.D. from the University of Pennsylvania under the name Edgar Fahs Smith. Throughout her career in bacteriological chemistry and refrigeration engineering, Pennington contributed to the development of safe handling, storage, and transportation of foods. On May 3, Pennington will be inducted into the National Inventors Hall of Fame that celebrates the world’s foremost inventors and their contributions to society. Pennington is one of 15 inductees this year. Pennington’s Work A few years after earning her Ph.D., Pennington, 1872–1952, became the Director of the Clinical Laboratory at the Women’s Medical College of Pennsylvania in 1898. Pennington worked as a bacteriologist with the Philadelphia Bureau of Health where she was involved in scientific studies on the relationship between handling conditions and bacterial levels in milk products. Her work was able to persuade farmers to agree to new procedures that would keep milk products safe for the consumer. Pennington began working for the U.S. Department of Agriculture in 1905 as a bacteriological chemist, and her work elevated her to become Chief of the food research laboratory. She defined procedures of taking chickens from the slaughterhouse to the consumer. A member of ASRE from 1920-1948, Pennington was elected Fellow in 1948. In 1919, President Herbert Hoover awarded her to the Notable Service Medal. She was awarded the American Chemical Society’s Garvan Medal in 1940 and was inducted into the National Women’s Hall of Fame in 2002. Pennington was inducted into the ASHRAE Hall of Fame in 2007.


--- [Mary Engle Pennington - Engineering and Technology History Wiki] ---
Mary Engle Pennington Biography Mary Engle Pennington was born in Nashville, Tennessee in 1872 and had tremendous impact on sanitation standards and refrigeration technology. Pennington entered the University of Pennsylvania and 1890 and would have received a B.S. in chemistry with minors in botany and zoology in 1892 but since they didn't grant degree to women, she was given a certificate of proficiency. She received a Ph.D. from UPenn in 1895 and was a university fellow in botany until 1896, then a fellow in physiological chemistry at Tale until 1899. She worked with the Women's Medical College of Pennsylvania as Director of their Clinical Laboratory, and as a researcher in hygiene at UPenn until 1901. She worked as a bacteriologist with the Philadelphia Bureau of Health and was instrumental in improving sanitation standards for the handling of milk products. She worked for the U.S. Department of Agriculture as a bacteriological chemist and went on to work as chief of the Food Research Laboratory, established for the Pure Food and Drug Act. Pennington developed standards for the safe processing of chickens for consumption, headed an investigation into refrigerated boxcar designs, and during World War I and served on Hoover's War Food Administration. After her involvement with refrigerated boxcars, she developed and was awarded a patent for an all-metal poultry-cooling rack. In 1919 she began working for American Balsa, who manufactured insulation for refrigeration units. She then stated her own consulting business in 1922 which she ran until retirement in 1952. In 1923 she founded the Household Refrigeration Bureau to education consumers in safe practices in domestic refrigeration. Pennington received the Garvan-Olin Medal, the highest award given to women in the American Chemical Society. She is also an inductee of both the National Women's Hall of Fame and the ASHRAE Hall of Fame. In 2018, she was inducted into the National Inventors Hall of Fame. Further Reading https://www.womenofthehall.org/inductee/mary-engle-pennington/


--- [Mary Engle Pennington: The Mother of Modern Food Preservation] ---
The preservation of food and beverage products for safe consumption despite extended shelf lives at grocery stores is a major global industry. Both consumers and companies have soon to be Hall of Fame member Mary Engle Pennington to thank. Research on the worldwide food preservation market released by Research and Markets in 2016 predicted that the sector would increase by a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 4.7 percent between 2015 and 2020, when the global market for food preservation techniques was expected to reach $582.8 billion. This includes revenues for all controlled intelligent packaging, preservation and shelf-life extension businesses for food products. The development of modern food preservation techniques over the past century or so has allowed agriculture production to flourish for many grocery items, including eggs. According to the American Egg Board, the U.S. egg industry produced 255.87 million cases of 30 dozen eggs during 2017, a production level which totals more than 92 billion eggs, 59 percent of which ended up being shipped to retail environments. Through 2018, the per capita consumption of eggs among U.S. residents was expected to reach 278.9 eggs per person over the course of the year according to the online statistics portal Statista. Today, Monday, April 2nd, marks the 82nd anniversary of the issuance of a seminal patent in the field of food preservation. While that patent may be specific to egg preservation, its inventor, Mary Engle Pennington, was a true pioneer of food preservation techniques to increase the shelf life of perishable food items. This May, Pennington will be honored along with the rest of the 2018 class of inductees into the National Inventors Hall of Fame for her technological contributions to food storage and safety. With the anniversary of Pennington’s egg preservation patent upon us, we return again to our Evolution of Technology series to take a long view at the history of food storage and the contributions of this year’s Hall of Fame inductee, a pioneering scientist and the first female lab chief at the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. The Pre-Pennington Period of Food Preservation Evidence of ancient techniques for food preservation date back to as early as 12,000 BC, when cultures in the Middle East and Asia employed drying techniques to store food for longer periods. Salting, fermentation and pickling were other early methods employed to preserve food. Food preservation techniques through the 18th century usually reflected the climate and geography in which a particular culture lived; the hot climate of the Middle East lent itself to drying techniques while Scandinavian cultures made use of salting preservation techniques because of their access to the mineral. In 1800, the French military leader and soon-to-be emperor Napoleon Bonaparte offered a prize of 12,000 francs to the person who could come up with a way to preserve food and keep his army fed. In 1810, this prize was awarded to French confectioner Nicolas Appert who developed the modern basis for what we know as canning. Theorizing that preservation techniques for bottled wine could work to store food, Appert came up with a process for putting food in glass bottles, sealing those bottles with a cork and wax and then placing the bottles in boiling water until the canned food was cooked. Appert’s canning process would be greatly refined in 1864 when the famed French scientist Louis Pasteur came upon the discovery which would lead to pasteurization, a heating process designed to reduce the number of viable pathogens in canned food and beverages which is still in use today by the dairy industry. Pasteur’s process subjected food to less heat than Appert’s process, which allowed pasteurized foods to retain a better flavor after processing. Mary Engle Pennington: The Mother of Modern Food Preservation Mary Pennington was born in October 1872 in Nashville, TN, but her family would move to Philadelphia, PA, while she was still young to be closer to Quaker relatives. By 1892, at the age of 20, Pennington completed the requirements for a bachelor’s degree in chemistry with minors in botany and zoology at the University of Pennsylvania’s Towne Scientific School, now the university’s School of Engineering and Applied Science; the University of Pennsylvania only offered her a certificate of proficiency as it did not confer degrees on female students at that time. She would, however, earn a PhD from the University of Pennsylvania in 1895 when she was only 22 years old. In the decade following her graduation, Pennington would work in research laboratories in fields including chemical botany, physiological chemistry and bacteriology at various institutions including the University of Pennsylvania, Yale University and the Women’s Medical College of Pennsylvania, the second medical academic institution established in the world to offer medical degrees to women. By 1905, Pennington began working with the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Bureau of Chemistry, later the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, helping the agency develop educational materials for farmers handling raw milk to improve the quality of ice cream given to school children. Her exceptional work at that agency would lead to her being named the first head of the Bureau of Chemistry’s Food Research Lab which was created by the Pure Food and Drug Act of 1906. To help her chances of being hired at a time when female scientists did not hold prominent government jobs, her director at the USDA reportedly submitted a request to hire an “M.E. Pennington” to fill the Food Research Lab chief scientist role. Under Pennington’s leadership, the Food Research Lab would provide pioneering research work supporting the idea that keeping fresh food at a constant low temperature would prevent spoilage and keep bacterial counts low. She also worked to define procedures for the safe handling of chickens at every point from the slaughterhouse to the consumer. She would continue in her civil service role until 1919, when she was hired by American Balsa to develop insulation for refrigeration units. In 1922, she started her own consulting firm and her career would continue to focus on spoilage-free methods of storing and shipping perishable food items, including eggs, poultry and fish, until her retirement in 1952. On April 2nd, 1935, the U.S. Patent Office issued U.S. Patent No. 1996171, entitled Method of Treating Eggs and listing Pennington as the lead inventor. This is the patent for which her Hall of Fame induction is based. Typically, the National Inventors Hall of Fame will point to a single patent as the crowning achievement for which the inventor is being inducted. As with so many of her soon to be colleagues in the Hall of Fame, Pennington’s contributions to the field of food preservation go well beyond a single patent, or even a single line of research. The ‘171 patent for which Pennington will be recognized claimed a process of treating egg material after separating from the shells and losing a portion of its initial carbon dioxide content, the process involving the dissolving of a quantity of carbon dioxide uniformly throughout the egg material by introducing carbon dioxide below the surface of the egg material to bring the carbon dioxide content of the material to at least the amount normally present in the corresponding untreated parts of fresh spring eggs. Pennington and co-inventor Arthur Thomas developed this process after determining that the high volatility of carbon dioxide, naturally occurring in freshly laid eggs, which diffused from egg shells and membranes negatively affected both the taste of the eggs as well as the egg’s ability to resist bacteria. Conclusion To say that modern refrigeration and food preservation techniques owe a great debt to Mary Engle Pennington is a rather embarrassing understatement that doesn’t capture the magnitude of her contributions. Throughout her life, she would be instrumental to the development of standards for ice-cooled refrigerator cars as well as construction and insulation for refrigeration units. In 1923, she founded the Household Refrigeration Bureau, which helped to teach U.S. consumers the importance of domestic refrigeration for food storage. In 1940, she would receive the Garvan-Olin Medal, the American Chemical Society’s top award for female chemists. When she died in 1952, she was still serving as the vice president of the American Institute of Refrigeration.
