=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[New Balance - Wikipedia]
In February 2015, New Balance announced its entry into the global soccer (association football) market. The company had started its soccer business through its subsidiary Warrior Sports in 2012, punctuated by a $40-million-a-year sponsorship deal with Liverpool F.C., but made the move to rebrand ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/New_Balance

[How New Balance cracked soccer: From Kawhi’s NBA deal to Saka and Weah’s personalised boots - The Athletic]
While in 2023, the Los Angeles Sparks’ Cameron Brink became the brand’s first female basketball athlete while she was still playing in the college game. Its first foray into football came with the Warrior brand, which supplied Liverpool’s kit from 2012 to 2015, with New Balance taking over as kit manufacturer in 2015. These days, its biggest clubs are Portuguese side Porto and Ligue 1 outfit Lille · Arsenal and England winger Bukayo Saka joined its ranks in 2020.
URL: https://www.nytimes.com/athletic/6091002/2025/02/08/the-rise-of-new-balance-in-soccer/

[New Balance Football Announces Global Portfolio of Club Sponsorships]
Stoke City is also joining New Balance's sponsored clubs roster. The club is a cornerstone of the English game and mirrors New Balance's own rich heritage in sport. The deal will see the Potters - the oldest club in the Premier League - further enhance New Balance's expansion into football, cementing an impactful presence in the Premier League for the brand.
URL: https://newbalance.newsmarket.com/archive/new-balance-football-announces-global-portfolio-of-club-sponsorships/s/18cad7b6-d79e-4dff-aeee-0135fee1ced9

[New Balance Unveils New Soccer Venture]
National teams are also expected to be added to the brand’s roster in the coming months. New Balance’s deal with Liverpool, a flagship club in elite English soccer, is the largest apparel sponsorship contract in the team’s 122-year history, according to Joe Preston, the brand’s global footwear and apparel executive vice president who was on-hand in New York to introduce today’s simulcast locally.
URL: https://wwd.com/footwear-news/shoe-industry-news/new-balance-unveils-new-soccer-venture-8160409/

[10 Popular Soccer Clubs That Are Sponsored By New Balance - Top Soccer Blog]
Here are ten soccer teams sponsored by New Balance. 1. FC Porto (Photo by Jose Manuel Alvarez/Quality Sport Images/Getty Images) We start from Portugal, where one of the big three teams is kitted by New Balance. FC is one of the best soccer teams in Portugal and one of the most prestigious soccer teams sponsored by New Balance.
URL: https://topsoccerblog.com/10-popular-soccer-clubs-that-are-sponsored-by-new-balance/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [New Balance - Wikipedia] ---
New Balance Athletics, Inc. (NB), doing business as New Balance, is an American multinational footwear and apparel corporation. Based in Boston, Massachusetts, New Balance was founded in 1906 as the New Balance Arch Support Company.
New Balance maintains a manufacturing presence in the United States, as well as in the United Kingdom for the European market, where it produces some of its popular models. New Balance claims to differentiate its products with technical features, such as blended gel inserts, heel counters and a greater selection of sizes, particularly for very narrow or very wide widths. The company is privately held and totaled $6.5 billion in revenue in 2023.




--- [How New Balance cracked soccer: From Kawhi’s NBA deal to Saka and Weah’s personalised boots - The Athletic] ---
“We were sort of playing Scorsese, casting for a movie.” That’s how Andrew McGarty, New Balance’s director of sports marketing for global football, described his company’s early steps into the world of soccer endorsements. Despite being 119 years old, the American sportswear company, founded in Boston, is a relative start-up in the endorsement world. It was only in 2019 that it took a major step into the NBA, partnering with Toronto Raptors’ Kawhi Leonard shortly before they won the Championship. He’s now a two-time NBA finals MVP and one of the most recognisable faces in the sport. GO DEEPER New Balance wants to eat and Kawhi Leonard is its meal ticket New Balance added another global talent to its roster in January 2023, when Japanese MLB star Shohei Ohtani joined. After being named MLB MVP twice with the Los Angeles Angels, he joined the Los Angeles Dodgers on a 10-year contract worth $700million — the largest contract in sports history at the time — and has since won the World Series. Advertisement Four-time Olympic gold medallist Sydney McLaughlin-Levrone, the sprinter and hurdler, is a New Balance athlete. While in 2023, the Los Angeles Sparks’ Cameron Brink became the brand’s first female basketball athlete while she was still playing in the college game. Its first foray into football came with the Warrior brand, which supplied Liverpool’s kit from 2012 to 2015, with New Balance taking over as kit manufacturer in 2015. These days, its biggest clubs are Portuguese side Porto and Ligue 1 outfit Lille Arsenal and England winger Bukayo Saka joined its ranks in 2020. He became Arsenal’s No 7 when he was just 18, helped England to a European Championship final at 19 and now, aged 23, is a bona fide star. This is what McGarty is referring to when he talks about casting for a movie. When New Balance took those first steps into football — the soccer kind — it wanted the equivalent of a tight squad, to find those few athletes that fit the part. “It was really important for us that fewer is better, less is more,” said McGarty. “So we were very selectful, and our hit rate was really good.” As well as Saka, the other footballers New Balance have signed up include Real Madrid’s Endrick, USMNT forward Timothy Weah, Canada’s Jordyn Huitema, USWNT forward Michelle Cooper, Colombia’s James Rodriguez and, the latest, Jeremie Frimpong. An invincible with Bayer Leverkusen last season, the Netherlands international Frimpong was announced as a New Balance athlete last month. “This is what I like about them: they’re very selective,” he told The Athletic. “New Balance have big stars.” The endorsement market has for a long time been dominated by brands such as Nike, Adidas and Puma. And, as a new entrant, New Balance adopted an “inch wide, mile deep” approach, as McGarty puts it. “Being a challenger requires that we take a very different approach,” he said. “We’re very self-aware of who we are. We’re not trying to be some of our top competitors. We were going up against competitors that have been in the sport for decades. Advertisement “So we came in with a really clear mindset of not wanting to do what everyone else is doing: we wanted to be ourselves and focus on authenticity. We look for players to reflect what’s next in football.” This was their hope for Saka when they approached him in 2020, despite him still being Arsenal’s No 77 at that point. He had scored in the FA Cup earlier that year, but would not score his first Premier League goal until that July. Saka had made just 33 appearances by the time the UK Covid lockdown hit in 2020, but New Balance was convinced by his character and that the soon-to-be England international would be the right fit. He now has 250 Arsenal appearances. It was not a given that Saka would agree to sign up. New Balance was a relative unknown in the world of football endorsements and convincing some players was difficult. “It was super hard, man,” said McGarty. To make their case, New Balance tailored their pitch to each athlete. “It starts with the genuine truth that each athlete is uniquely different,” said Rob Sheldon, New Balance’s director of football product. “It’s a failure of imagination not to recognise and respond to that.” That ethos is applied all the way down to the minute details of the boots they make for the players. “We do foot scans to understand how their feet are constructed, where there is pressure, or where they’ve had prior injuries to understand their foot morphology, anatomics, and in-game personas,” said Sheldon. “Thinking about how Saka plays, how he receives and releases the ball are behaviours that we can reflect and respond to.” New Balance describes it as a “co-authored” approach. Saka’s habits on the pitch were “central to the generation” of New Balance’s Speed Control Stud — an extra stud on their new Furon v8 boot to help players stop. It was designed using Saka’s in-game data, which showed how he accelerates towards a defender, stops to stand them up, then explodes past them with pace. Advertisement “We had a vision meeting with Bukayo in December,” McGarty said. “We rented a space in west London, curated the entire thing and spent the entire day with him. It was basically a Bukayo Saka shrine. We get feedback from him and walk him through the different pillars of what’s important to him and the partnership. We ask questions and listen. We were whiteboarding it, essentially.” Saka has also been part of collaborations with Stone Island and Aime Leon Dore in the 2022 World Cup and 2024 European Championship respectively, which New Balance sees as a way to fuse the soccer and fashion worlds on a bigger stage. The sports brand also tries to reflect the personalities of the athletes in their marketing. One of their most memorable campaigns was a follow-up to a casual remark by Leonard after he joined the Raptors in 2018, describing himself as a “fun guy”. A few months after he was announced as a New Balance athlete, up went a billboard: “Fun Guy.” View this post on Instagram That thinking was then applied in north London in 2021, when a 19-year-old Saka had just completed his first year as Arsenal’s No 7 and helped England reach the finals of the Euros. At the time, he was affectionately known as “Lil Chilli”, a nickname given to him by then-Arsenal captain Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang, who also gave him a chain bearing the nickname. New Balance commissioned a mural outside Highbury & Islington Station, near Emirates Stadium, tagged: “Little Chilli brings heat.” “We asked him to wear that chain on the shoot for that campaign,” McGarty said. “It was very lighthearted and fun. We’re not trying to be serious or have our athletes just hold up boots and say, ‘Buy now’. That’s so unoriginal. At the time, Bukayo was Little Chilli, now he’s Big Chilli. We’ve evolved that, which he really owned. We had conversations with him in product and marketing, and he wanted us to move on from the Little Chilli thing. “He’s growing up before our eyes, and I have no doubt he can be and will be the best player in the world. I truly believe he’ll win a Ballon d’Or someday.” As well as a growing stable of individual endorsements, the brand is also continuing its work with teams. Although New Balance’s deal with Liverpool ended in 2020, it still works with other clubs and is on the verge of announcing the addition of more Champions League clubs. “If you look at the clubs that we work with, like FC Porto and Lille, they’re relentless clubs from smaller cities who always punch above their weight,” said McGarty. “That’s how we see ourselves as a brand.” Of course, one common pitfall for sports brands is tinkering with the traditional, cherished aspects of a club’s strip. It’s something New Balance is conscious of. Advertisement “It’s done in partnership with the clubs, often with fan groups as well to make sure you land that,” said Sheldon. “It’s our responsibility to explain and communicate why we’ve taken a certain direction. So if it is slightly off-centre to the binary interpretation of a home kit, we have to communicate the reason for it. It’s about making sure that the fans understand it’s not a frivolous decision.” And then there’s the latest deal: Frimpong. Speaking to The Athletic just before the deal was announced, Frimpong said that part of the attraction to him, as well as the selective roster, was that New Balance agreed to help him with a community project. The right-back launched Pathways last year, aimed at helping people aged 15 to 22 find careers if they are cut from a football academy. “When you’re young and it’s time for scholarships and you don’t get one, I saw how teams will just leave you,” he said. “Football’s everything, and not to get in and then be left behind is really sad. It was about, in this scenario, if you don’t get a scholarship it doesn’t mean you’re not going to be a footballer or have a different career. “For New Balance to tell me that they want to help was really nice. They’ve got resources like boots and clothing that are useful for the company, especially in Africa.” Another project for soccer’s endorsement start-up to work on. Having been in the sport for just a decade or so, McGarty said New Balance are “just getting started”. GO DEEPER Inside Shohei Ohtani's New Balance deal: The strategy behind the collection (Top image: Illustration by Will Tullos/The Athletic; photos by Nigel French, Max Maiwald, Angel Martinez, all via Getty Images)


--- [New Balance Football Announces Global Portfolio of Club Sponsorships] ---
- 04-FEB-2015 NEW BALANCE FOOTBALL ANNOUNCES GLOBAL PORTFOLIO OF CLUB SPONSORSHIPS New deals confirmed with Liverpool FC, Stoke City FC, FC Porto and Sevilla FC [WEDNESDAY 4th FEBRUARY 2015] Today, New Balance has confirmed its entry into the global football market and has announced its portfolio of club sponsorships, featuring Liverpool FC, Stoke City FC, FC Porto and Sevilla FC. Through these sponsorships, New Balance will bring its wealth of technical expertise and heritage to some of the biggest leagues in global football. The announcement signifies a new multi-year kit manufacturer deal with Liverpool Football Club, a record-breaking deal in the club’s history. The agreement will see New Balance work alongside LFC to deliver world class product on pitch in line with the club’s ambitions to perform at the highest levels of the game. As part of the deal LFC product will be sold through New Balance retail stores globally and will help drive New Balance’s growth and entry into the football market. Stoke City is also joining New Balance’s sponsored clubs roster. The club is a cornerstone of the English game and mirrors New Balance’s own rich heritage in sport. The deal will see the Potters – the oldest club in the Premier League - further enhance New Balance’s expansion into football, cementing an impactful presence in the Premier League for the brand. The sponsorship of FC Porto, with its wealth of history in competing in the top flight European competitions, enables New Balance Football to make a distinct impact on European football from day one. The long term relationship sees New Balance bring its unique innovative approach to kit design and development to the club and its fans. Current UEFA Champions, Sevilla FC have a rich 110 year history and have been responsible for nurturing some of Europe’s leading footballing talents with an extensive line up of world class players that have been decorated at the highest levels of the game. Working with Sevilla FC gives New Balance a strong presence in one of Europe’s top leagues which is a key factor in the brand’s plan for growth in the global football market. Richard Wright, General Manager of New Balance Football, summarised today’s news, “We believe this global portfolio of clubs is an incredibly strong line-up for New Balance’s entry into the football market. We have four clubs all with distinctive, exciting identities and which will play a key role in taking New Balance Football to a truly global audience. This is an exciting, unprecedented start and we look forward to working with these clubs for many years to come.” To complement this globally recognised roster of teams, New Balance Football will also work alongside a number of local teams, including Shamrock Rovers, Odds BK, Sagan Tosu, Yamagata, Club Sport Emelec, O’Higgins FC and Persebaya Surabaya. In 2012 Warrior Football announced the brand’s first ever official club kit supply deal with Liverpool Football Club. Sevilla FC, Stoke City and FC Porto kit deals all followed as the Warrior Football brand grew its global reach. The success of this initiative led New Balance to decide to launch into the global football market under Warrior’s parent brand, New Balance in 2015. Warrior continues to deliver innovative products in performance sports including lacrosse and ice hockey. ENDS About New Balance Football In 2015, New Balance is bringing its expertise, passion, and innovation to the world’s greatest game, football. New Balance Football takes an original approach to designing and developing product, focusing on the unique needs of the player and the game. This is reflected in the quality of the sponsorships it has secured, including an enviable line up of the some of the world’s great football clubs including Liverpool FC, FC Porto, Sevilla FC and Stoke City and as well a roster of top flight players who excel at the highest level of the game. For more information about New Balance Football, visit www.newbalance.com/football. New Balance Football can be found on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram and YouTube. About New Balance: New Balance, headquartered in Boston, MA has the following mission: Demonstrating responsible leadership, we build global brands that athletes are proud to wear, associates are proud to create and communities are proud to host. New Balance is the only major company to make or assemble more than 4 million pairs of athletic footwear per year in the USA, which represents a limited portion of our US sales. Where the domestic value is at least 70%, we label our shoes Made in the USA. New Balance owns five factories in New England and one in Flimby, U.K. New Balance employs more than 4,000 associates around the globe, and in 2013 reported worldwide sales of $2.73 billion. To learn more about New Balance, please visit www.newbalance.com MEDIA CONTACTS - Mary LawtonGlobal PR ManagerUnited Statesmary.lawton@newbalance.com617-746-2525


--- [New Balance Unveils New Soccer Venture] ---
Today, New Balance kicked off its second go at soccer. The Massachusetts-based firm held a worldwide simulcast event anchored in London, announcing the launch of New Balance Football — its first venture into the sport since pulling out of the category in the Nineties to focus on running-geared products. Though no individual products were unveiled, the brand says it will roll out a complete portfolio of athletically optimized apparel, footwear, gloves, balls and other assorted equipment, beginning in the second half of the year. Merchandise was developed to service both professional and recreational players, as well as fans of the sport. Signing on for participation in the launch are English Premier League teams Liverpool F.C. and Stoke City F.C., as well as continental European clubs FC Porto and Sevilla FC. Each of the teams, as well as other international local clubs, will be outfitted in head-to-toe New Balance starting in the 2015-2016 season. National teams are also expected to be added to the brand’s roster in the coming months. New Balance’s deal with Liverpool, a flagship club in elite English soccer, is the largest apparel sponsorship contract in the team’s 122-year history, according to Joe Preston, the brand’s global footwear and apparel executive vice president who was on-hand in New York to introduce today’s simulcast locally. As part of the deal, New Balance will be the team’s official uniform manufacturer. In addition to outfitting players, the brand will also sell Liverpool F.C. goods in its freestanding stores worldwide. “It’s the world’s biggest sport in terms of participation as well as fans so it’s natural for us to take this leap,” Preston said of soccer. “We compete on a global basis with Nike and Adidas in many categories, but we don’t compete with them in this category,” he added. “Those two dominate the market and we feel this is an opportunity for a third brand to emerge, given our performance heritage and our global footprint.” Preston declined to provide sales projections for the soccer initiative’s first year, but noted: “Our entry here over the next two or three years is really going to be through a specialty route, so it doesn’t really involve a lot of big box retailers. “We tried to ground it where young players are really looking for it and also through our New Balance outlets we have literally hundreds of stores all across the globe that will also carry the product.”


--- [10 Popular Soccer Clubs That Are Sponsored By New Balance - Top Soccer Blog] ---
New Balance is one of the world’s major sports footwear and apparel manufacturers; they were founded in 1906 and are based in Boston, Massachusetts. New Balance is incorporated as the New Balance Arch Support Company as they have a manufacturing presence in the United States and the United Kingdom for the European market. Their sponsorship cuts across several sports, and they not only involve clubs and teams but also sports individuals. Some of the sports where New Balance has active sponsorship with club sides include American football, soccer, and Basketball, while also sponsoring tennis players and soccer players like Bukayo Saka, Harvey Elliott, Raheem Sterling, Sadio Mané, Timothy Weah. Here are ten soccer teams sponsored by New Balance. 1. FC Porto We start from Portugal, where one of the big three teams is kitted by New Balance. FC is one of the best soccer teams in Portugal and one of the most prestigious soccer teams sponsored by New Balance. FC Porto currently has a long-term deal with New Balance, which they signed in 2018. The deal was signed in 2018, an extension from the journey that started in the 2014/2015 season. The relationship between both parties started in the 2014/2015 season, and by the end of the current deal, which will expire by 2028, New Balance and FC Porto would have spent 14 years together. 2. Lille In France, Lille currently has a deal with New Balance, although the actual details of their engagement are not specified. New Balance replaced Nike as the kit maker for the former French Ligue Un champions in 2016 on an initial 5-year deal. When that deal expired in 2021, another extension was signed with a bigger package. A partnership is renewed in 2021 on a new five-season contract until June 2026, which will see Lille receive four different jersey designs every season. How long that will continue to happen was not revealed either by New Balance or Lille. 3. Dynamo Kiev After ending a long-term partnership with Adidas in the 2018/2019 season, Dynamo Kyiv teamed up with New Balance for what was expected to be just the first three seasons. For the 2023/2024 season, New Balance made three different kits for Dynamo Kyiv with a White home, a Blue away shirt, and a Yellow third kit. Dynamo Kyiv are one of the top soccer clubs in Ukraine. 4. Cardiff City At some point, New Balance was kitting two big teams on the British scene as they previously were the kids makers for Liverpool football club in the Premier League and Celtic in the Scottish Premier League. However, the only British team of note that New Balance kits in recent years is Welsh club Cardiff City. After ending their deal with Liverpool in 2020, Cardiff City became the first championship club in England that New Balance will be getting after replacing Adidas at the Welsh Club in 2022. They have the honour of being the first championship side that New Balance will kit since it began as a championship in 2004/2005. 5. Konyaspor Turkish side Konyaspor only recently joined the New Balance train at the start of last season; although the duration of the deal was not revealed, it is not expected to be long-term for two reasons. The club’s performances have not been consistent, and should it continue that way and end in relegation, the deal may come to an end. The second reason is the trend of multiple kitmakers that Konyaspor has had in the last couple of years. Since 2017, the Turkish side has worn kits from Macron, Hummel, Lotto and Nike. 6. Deportivo Toluca Back in North America, near the US border in Mexico, Deportivo Toluca left under the armour to find a new balance for their kits. Deportivo Toluca is the latest club to join the balance train. For 13 years, they were kitted by Under Armour between 2010 and 2023, but New Balance has taken the baton and will continue for the foreseeable future. 7. Red Bull Bragatino New Balance is not restricted to North America because, over in South America, the manufacturer has a Brazilian Club under their coverage. The Brazilians technically sent Nike parking after four years of doing business with the swoosh. Reports indicated that the club was displeased with the kind of kit designs it got and the lack of enough merchandise to sell under the previous kit makers, something they hope will be different under New Balance, who are working with a Brazilian team for the first time. The deal started In 2022, and aside from the MLS deal with Addidas that covers New York Red Bull, Red Bull Bragatino is the only other Red Bull-owned club not kitted by Nike like its counterparts in Leipzig and Salzburg. 8. Al Sadd Al Sadd is a Qatari soccer club based in the Al Sadd district of the city of Doha. They compete in the top level of Qatari football, the Qatar Stars League, one of the best soccer leagues in Asia. Puma has sponsored Al Sadd since 2017, when the German brand took over from local outfit Burrda. The deal between New Balance and Al Sadd started in the 2022-23 season. It will run for three seasons, with an option to extend it further. Al Sadd 2023-24 home shirt is white with black sleeves that extend towards the shoulders and collar, while the Away jersey is in black and has grey textures. 9. Brisbane Roar New Balance has been kit makers for Australian side Brisbane Roar since the 2021/2022 season, taking over from Umbro. New Balance will not only make kits for the male and female teams of Brisbane Roar for the next couple of seasons. 10. FC Tokyo Our New Balance journey ends in Japan with FC Tokyo, who joined in partnership with New Balance in 2020 after both parties signed a multi-year deal. New Balance entered the Asian J-League family trying to boost their presence on the Asian continent, as explained by the General Manager of New Balance Football, Kenny McCallum, who said: “New Balance is thrilled to announce our sponsorship of FC Tokyo. The club has a fantastic story to tell, and we’re excited to be a vital part of that. FC Tokyo is the number one team in an iconic city and one of the most promising sides in Asia. ‘We’re looking forward to creating a range of innovative and high-performance on-pitch products that will capture the true spirit of the team and its supporters.”
