=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Ken Skupski - Wikipedia]
Skupski is a three-time Grand Slam quarterfinalist, having reached this stage at the 2017 Wimbledon Championships in both men's and mixed doubles, and the 2020 Australian Open in men's doubles. At the 2010 Commonwealth Games in Delhi, he won two medals representing England, silver in men's ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ken_Skupski

[Ken Skupski | Player stats, ranking, bio & news | LTA]
Jun 23, 2008 · At the 2010 Commonwealth Games, Skupski and Ross Hutchins won the Doubles Silver Medal. In the Mixed Doubles, Skupski and Sarah Borwell beat Ross Hutchins and Anna Smith to win the Bronze Medal.
URL: https://www.lta.org.uk/fan-zone/british-tennis-players/ken-skupski/

[Ken Skupski calls an end to his 21-year career at Wimbledon | LTA]
Over in Delhi, he competed in both the men’s and mixed doubles at the 2010 Games – bringing home the silver medal for England in the men’s with Ross Hutchins and then winning the bronze with Sarah Borwell.
URL: https://www.lta.org.uk/news/ken-skupski-calls-an-end-to-his-21-year-career-at-wimbledon/

[Ken Skupski wins tennis silver and bronze medals at the Commonwealth Games - Liverpool Echo]
KEN SKUPSKI (right) and doubles Ross Hutchins celebrate during their men’s doubles final at the Commonwealth Games. ... But the duo lost to Australians Paul Hanley and Peter Luczak and had to settle for silver. However, Liverpool’s Skupski added another medal to his collection when he took bronze in the mixed doubles in Delhi ...
URL: https://www.liverpoolecho.co.uk/sport/other-sport/tennis/ken-skupski-wins-tennis-silver-3392945.amp

[Commonwealth Games 2010 live blog: 9 October | Commonwealth Games 2010 | The Guardian]
Khan says he's happy to box for Pakistan in Delhi – but he still wants to emulate Amir by boxing for Britain in the Olympics. That's having a bit each way, but there's one way to impress (boxing chief) McCracken: don't lose." 11.33am: Scotland's Jonathan Hammond took silver in the men's 50m rifle 3-position singles to finish second behind India's Gagan Narang, who claimed his fourth gold medal of the Games with a score of 1262.2. England's James Huckle took the bronze medal with 1254.9.
URL: https://www.theguardian.com/sport/blog/2010/oct/09/commonwealthgames2010


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Ken Skupski - Wikipedia] ---
Ken Skupski Jr. (born 9 April 1983) is a British former professional tennis player who specialised in doubles.
He reached his career-high ATP doubles ranking of world No. 44 in July 2010, and won seven titles on the ATP Tour, most notably the 2021 Mexican Open alongside younger brother Neal Skupski, with whom he regularly competed from 2013. Skupski is a three-time Grand Slam quarterfinalist, having reached this stage at the 2017 Wimbledon Championships in both men's and mixed doubles, and the 2020 Australian Open in men's doubles.
At the 2010 Commonwealth Games in Delhi, he won two medals representing England, silver in men's doubles with Ross Hutchins, and bronze in mixed doubles partnering Sarah Borwell. Skupski also represented Great Britain in the Davis Cup on two occasions in 2010.


--- [Ken Skupski | Player stats, ranking, bio & news | LTA] ---
CAREER HIGH 23/06/2008 527 ATP TITLES7 ITF TITLES49 DAVIS CUP TIES3 Last updated: 03/03/2026 CAREER HIGH 12/07/2010 44 ATP TITLES7 ITF TITLES49 DAVIS CUP TIES 3 Last updated: 03/03/2026 FAVOURITE SURFACE: Hard SHOT: Serve COACH Louis Cayer, Sean Dunstan, Anthony Hardman AGE42 HEIGHT183 cm PLAYSLeft-handed BACKHANDTwo-handed LTA SUPPORT NTC Pro Access TURNED PRO2001 FAVOURITE SURFACE:Hard SHOT:Serve COACH Louis Cayer, Sean Dunstan, Anthony Hardman Get to know Ken Skupski About QUICK-FIRE FACTS - Place of birth: Liverpool - Lives: Liverpool - Trains: Liverpool/NTC - Nickname: Skups - Favourite tournament: Wimbledon - Tennis beginnings: His breakthrough year was 2009, when he won his first two ATP tournaments and broke into the world's top 50 doubles players. - Likes: Very talented golfer (handicap of six) and a big fan of Liverpool FC. - Family: Married with three children. Father Ken Sr. is of Polish descent, mother is Mary. Often partners his brother Neal on court. Tennis Career January Skupski began the season playing with Dom Inglot. The Brits reached the second round of the men's doubles at the Australian Open - losing out to Raven Klaasen and Ben McLachlan. March Skupski and partner Jonny O’Mara, made it through to the semi-finals of the Lille Challenger after defeating German double-act, Hendrik Jebens and Benjamin Hassan. In their bid for a place in the final, the Brits lost out to France’s Quentin Halys and Jonathan Eysseric 6-4, 6-7(1), 8-10. O’Mara and Skupski clinched a spot in the quarter-finals of the ATP Challenger held in Marbella, but, subsequently, lost out on a place in the top four after losing 2-6, 6-3, 10-7 to Roman Jebavy and Philipp Oswald. April Skupski and O’Mara beat German/Austrian duo, Mats Moraing and Dennis Vovak, to reach the semi-finals of the Prague Challenger, but their campaign came to an end after losing 4-6, 7-6(7), 10-5 to French pair, Lucas Pouille and Tristan Lamasine. June The British duo headed to the Rothesay Open Nottingham, where Skupski won his fourth men's doubles title at the Nottingham Tennis Centre, defeating Julian Cash and Henry Patten 3-6, 6-2, 16-14. July Skupski commemorated his last campaign at SW19 with a place in the third round alongside countryman O’Mara. Two straight-sets victories paved the way to a well-earned place in the third round before missing out on the fourth following their defeat against German duo, Kevin Krawietz and Andreas Mies. Partnered with his brother, Neal, Skupski won his first ATP 500 doubles event in Acapulco, defeating Jamie Murray and Joe Salisbury on the way. In June, he won his third title in Nottingham, teaming up with Matt Reid to defeat Matthew Ebden and John-Patrick Smith in the Nature Valley Open ATP Challenger final. Later in the year he went on to win his third title of the season with his third different partner, joining up with fellow Brit Jonny O'Mara to be crowned champions at the Sofia Open. Most recently reached the quarter-final at Queen’s where he and Dan Evans lost out to eventual champions Andy Murray and Feliciano Lopez. Won the ATP 250 Hungarian Open title alongside his brother Neal in April, beating Marcus Daniell and Wesley Koolhof in the final. Reached the second round at Roland Garros with Neal, where they were beaten by Bob and Mike Bryan. Winning his first title alongside his brother in (ATP 250 in Montpelier 2018). At the 2010 Commonwealth Games, Skupski and Ross Hutchins won the Doubles Silver Medal. In the Mixed Doubles, Skupski and Sarah Borwell beat Ross Hutchins and Anna Smith to win the Bronze Medal. His best result at a grand slam came at Wimbledon 2017, reaching the quarter-finals of both the men's doubles and mixed doubles. Skupski used to attend Louisiana State University, graduating in May 2007. NCAA Doubles finalist 2005 and Two-time Southeastern Conference Coaches Indoor Champion (only player in the history of the Southeastern Conference to win back-to-back titles). Fourth biggest winning player in the school’s history with 107 wins. Six-time All-American (two Singles, one Doubles and three Academic). *ATP Challenger and ITF titles have been combined in the overall ITF titles on this page


--- [Ken Skupski calls an end to his 21-year career at Wimbledon | LTA] ---
Ken Skupski calls an end to his 21-year career at Wimbledon • 4 minute read British doubles star Ken Skupski waved goodbye to a 21-year career having recently bowed out of the third round of Wimbledon, battling it out with 11th seeds Kevin Krawietz and Andreas Mies on Court 12, in front of the British fans. The 39-year-old from Liverpool – who benefitted from the support of the NTC Pro Access programme – has not only been a key figure in British tennis throughout his career but has reached some of the highest heights on the ATP Doubles Tour. A seven-time ATP champion, 48-time Challenger title winner, three-time Grand Slam quarter-finalist and a two-time Commonwealth Games medallist, Skupski finishes his career with an array of accolades fitting of one of the top professionals in the game over the last two decades. “I feel OK actually,” he said coming off court after his final match at Wimbledon. “It’s fine, I’m old. I’m not really too emotional about it in a negative way. Now it’s about enjoying the moment, being here another 24 hours before going home and starting life post-tennis. “The overall feeling is that I’m proud. The family have been here all week and it’s been a nice little journey to finish. The first and foremost thing is family.” Skupski’s tennis journey started at Palmerston Tennis Club just around the corner from his family home in South Liverpool. With his parents both being keen players themselves it was only natural that both Skupski brothers would go on to share in their passion and from the age of eight, he started competing regularly in junior tournaments. Having worked hard to build his game over the years as a junior, Skupski was rewarded with the chance to study and play tennis at the Louisiana State University (LSU) in 2002. During his time there, Skupski made a name for himself with the fourth highest number of wins for any player in the College’s history. He went on to reach the NCAA doubles finals in 2005 – losing to John Isner in the final – and was the No.1 doubles star in the national rankings. Skupski graduated in 2007 and in the following year joined up with fellow Brit Colin Fleming to kick on in his ATP career. The pair won their first ATP Challenger together in Jersey in 2008 but caught the eye of the world when they defeated world No.1 pair Bob and Mike Bryan at Queen’s a year later. 2009 also saw Skupski claim his first ATP title with Fleming in Metz as the Brit surged up the rankings towards his career high at world No.44 in July of 2010. That year Skupski also got the chance to represent his country for the first time, both at the Commonwealth Games and the Davis Cup. Over in Delhi, he competed in both the men’s and mixed doubles at the 2010 Games – bringing home the silver medal for England in the men’s with Ross Hutchins and then winning the bronze with Sarah Borwell. He became the LTA Colour Holder No.287 after he was selected by Davis Cup Captain Leon Smith to compete in Great Britain’s tie against Lithuania. Despite losing the tie, Skupski and partner Fleming got their first win together for the Brits. In his only other Davis Cup tie months later, against Turkey, the team needed to win to avoid relegation to the Europe Zone Group III and Skupski played his role in carrying the team to victory – claiming a straight sets win. Skupski and Fleming split at the end of that year, with the Brit then going on to work with a several different partners including Robin Haase, Xavier Malisse and Jamie Delgado. But in 2013, he formed a formidable partnership with his brother Neal, who had just graduated from LSU himself. “When I was just starting off from leaving college, he was top 75 in the world and I was around 700th in the world, he came down to play futures, play challenger level,” said Neal. “We had great success from that start. We progressed as brothers, we travelled the world together, learned together. It was an amazing experience for me, and I can’t thank him enough for what he’s done for my career.” From 2013 to 2017 the Skupski brothers provide prolific on the Challenger Tour – winning 15 Challenger titles together, including Surbiton in 2015 and Nottingham in 2017. During this period Skupski also reach his first Grand Slam quarter-finals, both in the Wimbledon men’s doubles, with Neal, and then also in the mixed doubles with Jocelyn Rae. The Skupski’s made their breakthrough together on the ATP Tour in defeating Ben Mclachlan and Hugo Nys in the final of the 250 event in Montpellier in 2018. But after another title in Budapest the following year the brothers parted ways, with Neal starting to play with Jamie Murray. However, the two joined forces once again to play one event in Acapulco in 2021, where they took down top seeds Horacio Zeballos and Marcel Granollers in 7-6(3), 6-4 to claim the biggest trophy in Skupski’s career. However, the Brit was then forced to take a brief absence from the game after being diagnosed with blood clots in his right leg. The Liverpudlian has long had an affiliation with the Challenger event at the Nottingham Open as the winningest player in the history of the doubles event having won the title three times. The last two trophies came in the last couple of years, where Skupski was crowned champion with Australian Matt Reid (2021) and then again, a year later with fellow Brit O’Mara (2022). An incredible ambassador for the game and a player with an undying passion for the game – as Skupski now steps away from tennis to focus on other interests in his life, he can be proud of his well-decorated career.


--- [Ken Skupski wins tennis silver and bronze medals at the Commonwealth Games - Liverpool Echo] ---
KEN SKUPSKI (right) and doubles Ross Hutchins celebrate during their men’s doubles final at the Commonwealth Games. But the duo lost to Australians Paul Hanley and Peter Luczak and had to settle for silver. However, Liverpool’s Skupski added another medal to his collection when he took bronze in the mixed doubles in Delhi yesterday. READ MORE: {{title}} l See pages 41 and 42


--- [Commonwealth Games 2010 live blog: 9 October | Commonwealth Games 2010 | The Guardian] ---
5.46pm: One last bit of news for you ... Guernsey have beaten the favourites Malaysia in bowls! To catch up on the day's big talking points read this round-up. 4.51pm: Things are winding down now here for the day as coverage of the day's remaining events is sketchy to say the least. We'll have a roundup of the day's main talking points up on the site shortly. 4.41pm: Halftime in the men's hockey - Scotland are 2-0 down against India. Two early goals look to have done for Scotland's hopes. Better news in the bowls, however, where Scotland are tied 3-3 with Canada. In the boxing ring England's Obed Mbwakongo is about to touch gloves with India's Dinesh Kumar. No Indian fighter had apparently lost this week. 4.35pm: Back to the final of the men's doubles. Having dragged themselves back in to the game Ross Hutchins and Ken Skupski have already been broken by Australia's Peter Luczak and Paul Hanley in the third set. 4.29pm: Paul Drinkhall is carrying his sensational form from the semi-final into today's table tennis final - England are 2-1 down against Singapore but Drinkhall is leading the decisive fourth match. Snarling in table tennis, we've seen it all now. 4.24pm: British heptahlete gold medallist has been talking very movingly about her father. Hazel, who set a personal best, and secured victory with a fantastic performance in the 800m finale: "I said I would bring a medal home and I am over the moon. My dad passed away in 2008 but I pictured him on the finish line of the 800m and it gave me a second wind." Back in the tennis Ross Hutchins and Ken Skupski of England are 5-3 up in the second set against Australia's Peter Luczak and Paul Hanley in the final of the men's doubles. 4.16pm: Reaction coming in from Australia's Anastasia Rodionova defeat of Sania Mirza in women's singles final. Mirza, as you might expect, was broken, but unpick this from the Russian-born Rodionova: "I have been trying really hard and now I feel I am a real Australian after winning a Commonwealth Games medal." 4.09pm: In the final of the men's doubles, Ross Hutchins and Ken Skupski of England lost the first set to Australia's Peter Luczak and Paul Hanley 6-4. Hutchins and Skupski have responded though, they're currently 3-2 up in the second set. 4.04pm: Coming up shortly, England's men are taking on Singapore in the men's table tennis final. Paul Drinkhall's amazing comeback to seal victory for England against India in front of a noisy home crowd (as Drinkhall wryly put it, "the atmosphere was a little bit unusual for table tennis") was one of the unexpected highlights of the games so far. Can the boy from Boro help the team snatch gold, we wonder. 3:55pm: The host nation has suffered an unexpected upset in the tennis - Sania Mirza lost the women's singles final to Australia's Anastasia Rodionova 6-3, 2-6, 7-6 (3). Reflecting the incredible pressure of public interest, the match opened with five straight breaks of serve. And with that, still basking in the reflected glory of Louise Hazel and Grace Clements, Gregg heads off. That was a fantastic achievement by Britain's women in the heptathlon and a fitting way to bring today's track and field events to a close. 3.35pm: More great news for England as Grace Clements has done enough to win bronze too. Woo! Hazel wasn't expected to win a medal before the Games so this is evidence of her maturing ability in the event. She has set a lifetime best total of 6156 which would probably be enough for her to qualify for the world championships next year. She's only going to get better too. Jessica Ennis's career took off after winning Commonwealth bronze, so this gold can do wonders for Hazel. 3.32pm: Gold! Louise Hazel finishes well within the nine-second gap required to become the Commonwealth Games champion. England has a great tradition in this event and now Kelly Sotherton and Jessica Ennis have another genuine contender in world athletics to join them. She's in tears ... 3.31pm: Hazel will have to give it some legs now as Zilinka starts to pull away ... 3.30pm: Zilinka assumes second place with Hazel back in fifth. There's a small gap already after one lap. 3.29pm: Bang! They're off ... 3.24pm: It's the 800m, the final event in the women's heptathlon, and England's Louise Hazel has a brilliant chance of winning gold for England. She is currently first on 5337 points ahead of Canada's Hazel Jessica Zilinka, who was ranked one coming into the event. That means she can afford to finsih nine seconds behind and still win. However, Zilinka can run eight seconds faster than Hazel. I'm genuinely excited. you should be too ... 3.21pm: My colleague Tom Lutz reckons that the pit doesn't look long enough. It hadn't occured to me but, as the gold-medal winner Lapierre makes his final jump, it does look like he's in grave danger of grazing his knees on his way out of the pit at the far end. 3.19pm: That looks pretty good. It's definitely over 8m but comes in at 8.16m. That's silver for Rutherford. He looks well chuffed. 3.18pm: Here he goes. Huff puff huff puff huf puff huff puff ... and jump! 3.17pm: Foster reckons Rutherford has got one last jump in him. I got excited for a moment until Foster revealed that he thinks his big jump will perhaps come next year. 3.16pm: Oh! Greg Rutherford is going to have one last attempt to win gold at long jump after all. 3.12pm: It doesn't look like Rutherford will jump again in the long jump. His coach has just had a heated conversation with him and appeared to be telling him to pull out. He has a stringy piece of what looks like electrical tape on his thigh so perhaps he's got some kind of injury there. Can't imagine how that tape helps, unless he's an android or one of those human looking things from Blade Runner and his wiring's exposed. 3.07pm: Brendan Foster ought to choose his words more carefully: "He crouches and explodes." 3.03pm: Greg Rutherford only has one jump remaining to claim long-jump gold after falling short of 8m in his fifth attempt. there's not enough rythmic clappping going on for my liking in any of the field events. The long-jump leader Fabrice Lapierre of Autralia chews his gold chain manically before producing a similarly disappointing jump. But he's currently in the lead so won't care. 3.01pm: Joe Thomas of Wales has just timed his run to perfection in the second men's 800m semi-final. He was back in sixth and caught up in a bit of a scrum before breaking clear and sprinting through from 60m back to finish third and qualify. He'll be hoping to do something similar in tomorrow's final. 2.56pm: The English aren't as good at jumping high as they used to be. Tom Parsons and Samson Oni both fail to clear 2.26m and go out. It's a pity for Oni because when he cleared 2.23m he looked to have done so by about 8cm. He'll be gutted at having spent all of his coins so early. 2.52pm: England 800m runner Darren Sinclair finished fourth in the men's semi-finals and will have to wait and see if he makes the final by way of being the fastest qualifier. Brendan Foster (not Fraser as I just wrote ... he was in George of the Jungle!) seems pretty certain that he will and he's knows about these things. 2.49pm: There's been good and bad news for England in the men's long jump. Chris Tomlinson, who was carried off on a stretcher after qualifying yesterday due to a heel injury, bravely had a go in the final but fouled three times and was disqualified. But Greg Rutherford has excelled himself and jumped 8.22m to hold the silver-medal place as it stands. He''s 8cm off the leader (a long-legged Aussie with a lucky gold chain whose name eludes me at the moment) and has two jumps remaining. 2.46pm: Michael Johnson's giving it out to Conrad Williams now. Saying he was "all over the place" and not focused in the men's 400m final. It seems a bit unfair – like CP Scott appraising my efforts in this live blog. 2.44pm: There's been a silver medal for Scotland's Peter Kirkbride in men's weightlifting. The Kilmarnock weightlifter was competing in the 94kg class and lifted 144kg in the snatch and 189kg in the clean and jerk for a combined score of 333. A jubilant Kirkbride said: "I am ecstatic. It's a good result, not just for me, but for everyone that's supported me. I really have something to be proud of. It's amazing. I gave it my all." 2.40pm: England's Conrad Williams says he's proud of his performance and needs to get to grips with running in "pesky lane eight" if he's going to challenge for medals. 2.38pm: It''s not often Kenya produces good sprinters but in a photo finish Mark Mutai just pips Shaun Rowe to gold. He's elated. Andd that's two gold medals for Kenya in the space of 10 minutes. 2.37pm: Williams fades fast in the straight and finishes in a disappointing sixth. 2.37pm: Williams is second going into the straight ... 2.37pm: Williams runs a hard first 100m ... 2.36pm: It's the 400m men's final with Conrad Williams in lane eight hoping for a medal. He's coached by Linford Christie and has that arrogant air abbout him which should bode well. 2.33pm: A chuffed Guernseyite writes: "Hey!! Thanks for mentioning Guernsey. We have great team of athletes on our little rock, look at Heather Watson's tennis results, Tom Druce made the 400m semis – watch out for the 4x400m men's relay team, lawn bowls are holding their own and our male swimmers did us proud. Also Guernsey have just represented England at the men's Uefa regions football comp in Croatia where they drew with Croatia, beat Wales before succumbing to Turkey, off subject I know but just to reinforce we are a sports mad island!!!" Thanks to Dawn Thomas for that. Is there some magical elixir in the water over there? Can you send me some? 2.29pm: The battle for gold is between Jerogii and Chaywa of Kenya. Chaywa leaps the last hurdle without touching it and just beats Jerogi to gold. Singh finishes fifth after a fantastic sprint finish from England's Clitheroe to finish fourth. 2.26pm: It's going to be a Kenyan 1-2 but Singh is doing her best to claw back the 40 metres or so between her and the third-placed Kenyan. 2.25pm: The three Kenyan athletes are dominating the race but the crowd are raucous with Sujit Singh in fourth place just off them. England's Clitheroe and Tina brown are fourth and fifth and look out of it. 2.23pm: The steeplechase is a curious event. It seems like a drunken afterthought, with random hurdles dotted about the track which look more suited to horses than humans. 2.19pm: There is the biggest crowd (estimated at 40,000) that the Games has so far seen in the stadium tonight and a great atmosphere to go with it. Many of them are gearing up to cheer on the three Indian athletes competing in the 300m final of the steeplechase. Helen Clitheroe is the best hope for England but, having competed in the 1500m final yesterday, she might be a wee bit too stiff to give it her all. 2.12pm: Two more fantastic performances in the 200m heats: first Christian Malcolm of Wales runs 20.93sec to win his heat and then the powerful youngster Leon Baptiste runs 20.68sec while easing down the straight. He's looking the most likely to challenge in tomorrow's final and can get better given that he's still only 25 years old. 2.05pm: England's Marlon Devonish has just cruised to victory in the second heat of the men's 200m. He eases off at least 30m from the line and should be a contender for a medal tomorrow afternoon. "I feel better today. I didn't want to do anything silly and I'm happy with that," he says. 1.59pm: That's the swimming done and dusted at the Commonwealth Games. The top three in the overall medals table ended up looking like this: 1) Australia 54 2) England 34 3) South Africa 16 1.57pm: Guernsey finished a creditable eighth, in case you're wondering ... 1.55pm: Men's 4x100m Medley Relay: Simon Burnett puts in a blistering final leg in the freestyle for England and misses out by a fingernail's length on the silver medal. 1) Australia 2) South Africa 3) England 1.52pm: Australia immediately burst back into the lead after a wonderful handover. Dan Sliwinski appears to be the weaker member of the England team and falls back to third after the breastroke. 1.52pm: Liam Tancock gets England off to a fantastic start, taking the lead by about a second and a half after his backstroke leg ... 1.49pm: It's the final of the men's 4x100m Medley Relay now, where England, Scotland and Guernsey, yes Guernsey, are in action. Australia and Canada are favourites – no offence Guernsey. I'm surprised they've found four swimmers to compete ... 1.44pm: Coming up on the track this evening Chris Tomlinson will be, erm, leaping into action for England in the final of the men's long jump. 1.39pm: The veteran English athlete Joice Maduaka (she's 37!) wins her 200m heat in a time of 23.74sec. She seemed completely relaxed as she gracefully made her way down the straight. 1.36pm: Women's 4x100m Medley Relay final: Australia claim gold, Fran Halsall comes in the silver-medal position for England and Canada pip Wales to third. Wales smash the national record, finishing fourth. 1.35pm: England are in second going into the last 100m freestyle. Wales are still in the hunt for bronze. Australia are well out in front. 1.33pm: It's the Women's 4x100m Medley Relay in the pool now with England hoping for a medal. Gemma Spofforth doesn't get off to the most blistering start and leaves England in second after the backstroke. 1.27pm: Evening has descended upon New Delhi and we're out of the pool and on to the track for a moment. In the second heat of the women's 200m both Lee McConnel of Scotland and Laura Turner of England are through. Turner finishes fourth and gets dog's abuse from 200m and 400m legend Michael Johnson, who reckons she should have been running much quicker than 23.99sec. Incidentally, why is Johnson so prominent on British TV? I like his punditry but does he do the same on American athletics coverage too? Can anyone in the US tell me? Or did he do something to offend the US media and that's why he's always in Britain? Hmmm. Questions, questions ... 1.21pm: It seems everybody is unhappy with the quality of the water in the pool in Delhi. The British Swimming national performance director, Michael Scott, has confirmed that he's asked for an official explanation. Scott believes it could be the result of backwash in the filtration system. 'Backwash' is a grim sounding word. I hope it has nothing to do with this. 1.15pm: Flower of Scotland belts out in the swimming arena as Hannah Miley receives gold for her stunning performance earlier in the Women's 400m Individual Medley. Apparently her average training week involves swimming 80,000m per week. that's ridiculous. Surely that means she spends more time in water than on land. Perhaps she's part fish? 1.12pm: If you've got nothing better to do you can email at gregg.roughley@guardian.co.uk and tell me if swimmers are born broad-shouldered with narrow waists and thus become good at swimming because they're the right shape for it. Or whether swimming sculpts your body that way? Or just keep me company. It's lonely here. 1.07pm: Daniel Fogg pips South Africa's Mark Randall to the bronze medal with a storming finish over the last 50 metres. That was a gutsy swim from the 23-year-old from Loughborough. He really turned it on over the last four lengths. Men's 1500m freestyle final results: 1) Ryan Cochrane (Canada) 2) Heerden Herman (South Africa) 3) Daniel Fogg (England) 1.04pm: Right. We're back in the pool at Delhi where I can finally let you know that Ryan Cochrane of Canada looks likely to win gold in the 1500m men's freestyle. England are in the hunt for a bronze medal. Daniel Fogg is currently fourth and closing in on the third-placed swimmer, Mark Randall. 1.02pm: Oh. BBC coverage has gone off and we've been dished up the lunchtime delights of Animal Hospital with Ben Fogel. Apparently, Fogel says they've "got to keep the Ostrich away from the eggs." I've no idea why, either. Let me try and switch channels and rescue this farce ... 12.56pm: Hello, Gregg Roughley here. Scott's gone to find some food. We're good at Guardian Towers when it comes to making sure people eat when they are hungry. Anyway, I see there's some swimming taking place at the moment. I'll tell you which final it is when they mention it. I've been watching all of four seconds and already the commentators have slated the water for being "murky". They've obviously never gone swimming in the Hampstead Heath ponds on a baltic November Wednesday ... 12.49pm: As a former devotees of the gaming wonder that was Jahangir Khan's World Championship Squash, we've been glad of the opportunity that the Commonwealth Games offers to give the sport some much needed coverage. So far today in the men's England bt Cayman Islands 2-0, Norfolk Island bt Zambia 2-1, Australia bt Botswana 2-0, Malta bt Norfolk Island 2-0, Scotland bt Malawi 2-0 and India bt Uganda 2-1. 12.40pm: Benoit Huot of Canada wins the 100m Freestyle para S10 in a new championship record of 53.7, with England's Rob Welbourn grabbing the bronze. 12.28pm: Back in the pool, Scotland's Hannah Miley keeps Australia's Samantha Hamill at bay to take the women's 400m individual medley. England's Keri-Anne Payne wins bronze. Miley won in four minutes 38.83 seconds, a new Games record. Victory means the 21-year-old Scot added the Commonwealth title to the European crown she took in August. 12.25pm: England's Anita North has won a gold medal and Scotland's Shona Marshall the silver medal in shooting's women's singles trap at the Commonwealth Games. 12:18pm: Liverpool's Duncan ''It was a little bit unusual for table tennis has followed the dead-eyed lead of Nicky Hunt by winning the individual compound archery gold. 12.16pm: Australia's Brenton Rickard won the men's 200m breaststroke from Scotland's Michael Jamieson 12.13pm: Just reading about the security preparations for the cycling road race tomorrow (which will feature Tour de France star Mark Cavendish). As the telegenic race circles round landmarks such as the Presidential Palace, steel barricades, snipers and helicopters are all being deployed to prevent a reoccurance of the shootings that injured two tourists last month. Cavendish is the hot favourite (as Christopher Whorrall put it, "Cycling is a game of poker, but with Cavendish you almost have a guarantee") but the tight nature of the laps may even things up. Cavendish himself seems to be feeling the pressure. You don't need to be a Edward Lutyens fan to see that this promises to be a great event. 11.48am: Canada, Australia and South Africa have already put their towels down in the first of today's nine swimming finals. Canada's Brent Hayden took gold in the 50m freestyle, while Australia's Jessica Schipper took gold for Australia in the 200m butterfly (England's Ellen Gandy took bronze). West Country starlet Stephanie Millward took silver behind the South African phenomenon that is Natalie du Toit in the 100m butterfly para S9. Du Toit has now taken three golds in what is her first Commonwealth games. 11.41am: The Haroon Khan story is a tale that refuses to be counted out. Back in the summer, the guardian's boxing expert Kevin Mitchell explained that Khan's non-selection reflected the incredible strength of bantamweight boxing in Britain. According to Mitchell: "The authoritative Boxing News amateur rankings have Khan, who went out in the early rounds of the ABA Championships this year, at No10 in the 54kg category, so he's got some work to do... As my source put it, if he shows "significant progress in the next few months" he will be in contention for funding in 2011. Khan says he's happy to box for Pakistan in Delhi – but he still wants to emulate Amir by boxing for Britain in the Olympics. That's having a bit each way, but there's one way to impress (boxing chief) McCracken: don't lose." 11.33am: Scotland's Jonathan Hammond took silver in the men's 50m rifle 3-position singles to finish second behind India's Gagan Narang, who claimed his fourth gold medal of the Games with a score of 1262.2. England's James Huckle took the bronze medal with 1254.9. 11.31am: Some interesting and altogether less concillatory quotes coming in from Haroon Khan, following his tense victory over Wales' Andrew Selby, a victory which ensures him a bronze medal. Khan told AP: "This is what I wanted to do - get a medal and beat a lad from the Great Britain podium squad. I've done that and proved them wrong. It [beating a Briton] is more important than the medal." Khan, of course, is boxing for Pakistan after being over looked by the England side. 11.21am: A belated congratulations to Leeds Met university student Jo Jackson, who much much earlier today (around 4am GMT) won the 20K walking race in a time of one hour 34 minutes and 22 seconds. 11.18am: One highlight of the afternoon will be Sania Mirza's appearance in the women's tennis final. The Indian star, you might remember, caused a celebrity geo-political apocalypse of sorts when she announced her engagement to Pakistani cricket Shoaib Malik back in April. Setting less pulses alight was the India versus Malwai netball match which, according to India's Mail Today, was watched by a grand total of seven people. 11.14am: Earlier this morning there was success for England's hockey teams - England's men beat New Zealand 5-3 in the group stages, while goals from Nicola White, Alex Danson and Georgina Twigg booked England's women a semi-final spot by beating Malaysia 3-0. 11.08am: Haroon Khan says he holds no grudge against English boxing or English boxers, just England's selectors. He had this to say after his victory over Andrew Selby: "I came to prove myself. All I wanted was the medal and now I've got that so I'm delighted. I don't have a problem with the England boxers... it's just the selectors." Just before that Northern Ireland's Paddy Barnes became the first boxer from the home nations to secure a medal after beating Australia's Andrew Moloney 4-2. 11.00am: In altogether more contentious archery news, the English team have denied swearing at an Indian offifial after the England team lost to India in the women's recurve final on Friday. Andy Bull has the details. Andy Bull, Rice123, is one of two guardian scribes currently at the Commonwealth Games. 10.45am: Gold for British archery star Nicky Hunt in the women's individual compound, who fell only four points short of a perfect total after hitting 12 perfect 10s from 15 arrows to claim her second gold medal of the games. "Two gold medals is more than I could ever have hoped for," she said. "I'm sure it will sink in over the next few days but at the moment it just doesn't feel real." 10.39am: Haroon Khan goes in to the last four of the flyweight contest after a tight bout finished 3-3. Great scenes! And ample justification of Haroon's desicion to represent Pakistan. Brother Amir is going to be a happy chappy. 10: 28am: Going into the third and final round, Haroon Khan, fighting for Pakistan after being overlooked by the England side, was tied at 2-2. European bronze medallist Andrew Selby of Wales is the favourite, but Bolton's Khan has a point to prove... 10.08am: You can catch up with all yesterday's action and debate here. What stood out for us was England's 1-2-3 in the 110m hurdles. Impressive in its own right, outstanding when you think that silver medlalist Will Sharman, who had been suffering with diahorrea and vomiting, had checked himself out of hospital to compete in the race. According to Rebecca Adlington, who claimed her second gold in the pool yesterday, the Games has become all about triumph over adversity. And despite reports of collapsing scoreboards, potentially poisonous pools, condom-blocked lavatories, swimmers down with Delhi belly, transport chaos and lecherous security staff, now the games have finally hit their stride, popular opinion is finally turning in their favour, says Jason Burke. 9.49am: Morning and welcome to day six of the action at the Delhi Commonwealth Games. We're looking forward to seeing Pakistan's Haroon Khan, brother of Amir, fighting Wales' Andrew Selby for the flyweight bronze but there are highlights aplenty, such as: nine athletics finals - including Chris Tomlinson and Greg Rutherford going head-to-head in the men's long jump final; the finals of the tennis; and England versus Singapore in the men's team table-tennis final. The full schdule of events can handily be found here. And feel free to join the chat below the line or email Scott Anthony.
