=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Sabre (fencing) - Wikipedia]
Sabre was the last weapon in fencing to make the transition over to using electrical equipment. This occurred in 1988, 32 years (1956) after the foil and 52 years (1936) after the épée.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sabre_%28fencing%29

[Sabre (fencing) - Academic Dictionaries and Encyclopedias]
Sabre was the last weapon in fencing to make the transition over to using electrical equipment. This occurred in 1988, 31 years after Foil and 52 years after Épée.
URL: https://en-academic.com/dic.nsf/enwiki/1036318

[Sabre (fencing) Facts for Kids]
Sabre was the last fencing weapon to start using electrical scoring. This happened in 1988. The foil started using electricity in 1956, and the épée in 1936.
URL: https://kids.kiddle.co/Sabre_(fencing)

[Sabre (fencing)]
Sabre was the last weapon in fencing to make the transition over to using electrical equipment. This occurred in 1988, 32 years (1956) after the foil and 52 ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sabre_(fencing)

[What is the equipment used in fencing? - Heimduo]
Aug 21, 2020 · Sabre was the last weapon in fencing to make the transition over to using electrical equipment. How do electric fencing swords work? The way in which the hits are registered is dependent on the weapon that is used.
URL: https://heimduo.org/what-is-the-equipment-used-in-fencing/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Sabre (fencing) - Wikipedia] ---
The sabre (US English: saber, both pronounced ) is one of the three disciplines of modern fencing alongside foil & epee. The sabre weapon is for thrusting and cutting with both the cutting edge and the back of the blade (unlike the other modern fencing weapons, the épée and foil, where a touch is scored only using the point of the blade).
The informal term sabre fencer refers to sabre fencers of both genders.


--- [Sabre (fencing) - Academic Dictionaries and Encyclopedias] ---
- Sabre (fencing) The sabre is one of the three weapons of modern sport fencing , and is alternatively spelled saber in American English. The sabre differs from the other modern fencing weapons, theépée and foil, in that it is possible to score with the edge of the blade; for this reason, sabreur movements and attacks are very fast. For the other two weapons, valid touches are only scored using the point of the blade. Like foil, sabre uses the convention of right-of-way to determine who acquires the touch.The term "sabreur" refers to a fencer who fences with a sabre. "Sabreuse" is the female equivalent. Sabre was the last weapon in fencing to make the transition over to using electrical equipment. This occurred in 1988, 31 years after Foil and 52 years after Épée . In 2004, immediately following the Athens Summer Olympics, the timing for recording a touch was shortened from its previous setting dramatically altering the sport and method in which a touch is scored.The target area originates from dueling sabre training.Fact|date=October 2007 To attack the opponent's leg would allow him to "slip" that leg back and attack one's exposed arm or head given that the higher line attack will outreach the low line (there is a classic example of the leg slip in Angelo's Hungarian and Highland Broadsword of 1790).cite web |url=http://www.thehaca.com/pdf/HungarianHighlandBroadsword.pdf |title=Hungarian & Highland Broad Sword |accessdate=2008-06-14 |work= |date= 18th century The target area is from the waist up excluding the hands. Right-of-way applies, much as it does to foil. A common misconception concerning the origin of sabre's target area is that the legs are removed as targets due to sabre's origin as a cavalry weapon. Essentially, this line of reasoning goes, the legs of a horseman were not a valid target in war, since cutting the leg of a man riding a horse would not stop that man from continuing his charge. This myth has largely been refuted and several older texts demonstrate low sabre parries to protect the mount's flanks and the fencer's legs.Fact|date=October 2007 The weapon The cross-section of the sabre blade is Y- or V-shaped, unlike the quadrangular shape of the foil, but not as stiff as the épée . Adult (Size 5) blades are 88 cm (35 inches) in length. At the end of the blade, the point is folded over itself to form a "button", although no actual button exists. The bell guard of the sword is curved around the handle, giving the fencer hand protection. On electrical sabres, a socket for the body wire is found underneath the bell guard. A fastener known as a pommel is attached to the end of the sword to keep the bell guard and handle on. The handle of a sabre is standardly a French grip, as most other grips are incompatible with the bell guard. The entire weapon is generally 105 cm (41 inches) long, and 500 grams (1.1 lb) in weight. It is shorter than the foil or épée, and lighter than the épée, making it easier to move swiftly and incisively. Many equate the sabre's blade to a matchstick, in that they are easy to snap but relatively cheap to replace.Unlike the other two weapons, there is very little difference between an electric sabre and a steam or dry (non-electric) one. The blade itself is the same in steam and electric sabres, as there is no need for a blade wire or pressure-sensitive tip in an electric sabre. An electric sabre has a socket, which is generally a 2-prong or bayonet Foil socket with the two contacts shorted together. Early electric sabres were equipped with a capteur socket. The capteur was a device that was intended to detect a parry by use of an accelerometer. If a parry was detected, the electronics were supposed to invalidate any subsequent closing of the scoring circuit due to the flexible blade whipping around the parry. This device never worked as intended and was quickly discarded, and the whipover effect was greatly mitigated when the FIE mandated stiffer sabre blades in the S2000 specification. The electric sabre also has insulation on the pommel and on the inside of the guard to prevent an electrical connection between the sabre and the lamé. This is undesirable because it effectively extends the lamé onto the sabre, causing any blade contact to be registered as a valid touch.Target area The target area for sabre consists of the torso above the waist, as well as the arms and head (excluding the hands). When fencing with electric equipment, a manchette , or sabre cuff, is used in conjunction with thelamé and electrically conductive mask to ensure that the entire target area forms a single circuit.Because touches can be scored using the edge of the blade, there is no need for a pressure sensitive head to be present on the end of the blade (thus having the button). When fencing "electric" (as opposed to "steam" or "dry") a current runs through the sabre blade. When the blade comes into contact with the lamé , the electrical mask, or themanchette , the current flows through the body cord and interacts with the scoring equipment.coring Sabre uses two lights (red and green lights, known as primary or scoring lights) on the scoring device (generally referred to as the box). A red or green light shows a positive touch, red being a touch from the left fencer and green being a touch from the right fencer. A sabre action has three possible outcomes. Either one of the scoring lights turns on, both turn on, or the referee stops the action before either turns on. Lockout A lockout is when only one of the scoring lights turns on. This occurs when one fencer gets a valid touch, thus triggering their light, and the other fencer does not make a valid touch within the lockout time. In a lockout situation, the fencer whose light is on scores the point unless the action was made after the "halt." The lockout time for sabre was originally 300 to 350 milliseconds (varying by the reliability of the machine used). In 2005, however, the FIE voted 51-33 to decrease the lockout time. They then proceeded to vote 50-32 to decrease it to the specified time of approximately 120 milliseconds. Changing the lockout timing effectively changed the rules of sabre. The efficacy of attacks into preparation was increased, and the riposte after a parry must now be much cleaner and quicker than in the past. The rule change was greeted with a degree of controversy, as many fencers who relied on having the extra tempo to execute a parry-riposte find that their opponents are simply able to remise (A renewal of a failed attack, without coming back en garde) after being parried before the riposte can land. This further contributed to skew the balance in sabre towards offense - that is, it is easier to attack at sabre than it is to defend. Right of way When both lights turn on, it rests upon the referee to decide which fencer scores the point. The decision is based on the concept of Right of Way (RoW) which gives the point to the fencer who had priority, i.e. the attacking fencer. Priority is gained in many ways: *Beginning to extend the arm before the opponent, which signifies an attack *Causing the opponent to miss, either through a parry or retreating out of distance *Establishing a point in line *Beating the opponent's blade *Deceiving the opponent's searchIf neither fencer has priority in a double touch situation, the action is called simultaneous and no point is awarded. Referee The referee may halt the action for reasons such as a safety hazard, fencer injury, or violation of the rules. When the referee says "halt", no further action may score a point. For cases of rules violation, the referee may choose to either warn the offender or show him or her a penalty card . A warning has no scoring implication. Cards, on the other hand, have further penalties: *Yellow Card: Offender's touch is annulled *Red Card: Offender's touch annulled, point awarded to opponent *Black Card: Offender is removed from the tournamentTechnique At sabre, it is generally easier to attack than to defend (for example, the timing favours remises) and high-level international sabre fencing is often very fast and very simple, although when required, top sabreurs do display an extended repertoire of tactical devices. In response to the relatively high speed of sabre fencing, the rules for sabre were changed to prohibit the forward cross-over (where the back foot passes the front foot) - it is now a cardable offence. Thus, the flèche attack is no longer permissible, so sabre fencers have instead begun to use a 'flunge' ("f"lying "lunge"). This attack begins like a flèche, but the fencer pushes off from the ground and moves quickly forward, attempting to land a hit before their feet cross over. Similarly, "running attacks" - consisting of a failed flèche followed by continuous remises - have also been eliminated. Sabre defense comprises the three primary parries: *"Tierce", high outside *"Quarte", high inside *"Quinte", headand three secondary parries: *"Prime", generally taken in a sweeping motion to cover the entire inside line - often used instead of quarte when moving from quinte *"Seconde", either guarding the low outside line - often used instead of tierce when moving from a "point-in-line" *"Sixte", Blade up and to the outside, wrist supinated. This parry can be Lateral or Circular.It follows from the nature of sabre parries (they block an incoming attack rather than deflecting it as in foil and épée) that they are static and must be taken as late as possible to avoid being duped by a feint attack, committing to a parry in the wrong line and being unable to change parry (which often involves completely altering the orientation of the blade while moving and rotating the wrist and forearm) to defend against the real attack quickly enough. World Rankings MEN * 1.Aldo Montano (ITA) * 2.Mihai Covaliu (ROU) * 3.Nicolas Limbach (GER) * 4.Stanislav Pozdniakov (RUS) - Reigning World Champion * 5.Zsolt Nemcsik (HUN)) * 6.Jorge Pina (ESP) * 7.Eun Seok Oh (KOR) * 8.Luigi Tarantino (ITA) * 9.Keeth Smart (USA) * 10.Alexy Yakimenko (RUS)WOMEN * 1.Sada Jacobson (USA) * 2.Rebecca Ward (USA) * 3.Tan Xue (CHN) * 4.Elena Netchaeva (RUS) - Reigning World Champion * 5.Mariel Zagunis (USA) * 6.Aleksandra Socha (POL) * 7.Sopia Velikaia (RUS) * 8.Leonore Perrus (FRA) * 9.Keum Kim (KOR) * 10.Giola Marzocca (ITA)NOTE: These rankings are accurate as of JUNE 18 ,2008 fact|date=June 2008References * cite book last = Amberger first = J. Christoph authorlink = coauthors = year = 1998 title = The Secret History of the Sword: Adventures in Ancient Martial Arts publisher = Unique Publications location = Burbank, California id = ISBN 1-892515-04-0* Reference to teaching fencing footwork to children - fun games to play http://forum.mkfles.org.yu/viewtopic.php?id=65 Wikimedia Foundation. 2010.


--- [Sabre (fencing) Facts for Kids] ---
Sabre (fencing) facts for kids The sabre (say "SAY-ber") is one of the three main types of modern fencing. In sabre fencing, you can score points by hitting your opponent with the tip, the cutting edge, or even the back of the blade. This is different from the other fencing weapons, the épée and the foil, where you can only score with the tip of the blade. A male fencer who uses the sabre is sometimes called a sabreur. A female fencer is called a sabreuse. Contents Understanding the Sabre Weapon The sabre is a special sword used in fencing. It has specific rules for its size and weight. | Name | Size | What it does | Official? | |---|---|---|---| | Guard | 17 × 14 × 15 cm | Protects the fencer's hand. | Yes | | Blade | 88 cm | The steel part that hits the opponent. | Yes | | Total length | 105 cm | The sabre's full length. | Yes | | Total weight | 500 g | How much the sabre weighs, ready to use. | Yes | The blade of a sabre is made of steel. It is about 88 centimeters (34.6 inches) long. The blade is usually V-shaped at the bottom and flat at the end. This design makes the blade flexible near the tip. The very end of the blade is folded over to form a small "button." This button is usually square or rectangular, about 4–6 millimeters (0.16–0.24 inches) in size. The guard is a large, smooth, round piece that protects the fencer's hand. It is made in one piece and has no sharp edges. The inside of the guard is covered with insulation. This helps keep the fencer safe and makes sure the electrical scoring works correctly. How Electrical Sabres Work Modern sabres use electricity to tell when a hit happens. Underneath the bell guard, there is a socket for a body wire. This wire connects the sabre to the scoring machine. A part called a pommel holds the guard and handle in place. It also keeps the handle and guard electrically separate. The handle of a sabre is shaped to let the fencer hold it easily. It allows the hand to slide a bit, which helps the fencer reach further. Other types of grips are not used because they would limit hand movement. The whole sabre weapon is usually about 105 centimeters (41.3 inches) long. It weighs a maximum of 500 grams (about 1.1 pounds). Most sabres used in competitions are lighter, around 400 grams (0.88 pounds). The sabre is shorter than the foil or épée. It is also lighter than the épée. This makes it easier to move quickly. However, sabre blades can break more easily than other fencing blades because of their design. Sabre was the last fencing weapon to start using electrical scoring. This happened in 1988. The foil started using electricity in 1956, and the épée in 1936. In 2004, the time allowed for a hit to register was changed. This made the sport faster and changed how fencers scored points. Where to Hit in Sabre Fencing In sabre fencing, you can score a point by hitting your opponent on their upper body. This includes their torso (chest and back) above the waist, their head, and their arms up to the wrist. You cannot score points by hitting the legs, hands, or feet. To make sure hits are counted, fencers wear special gear: - Glove: The glove has a conductive (electricity-carrying) cuff. This cuff touches the lamé. - Lamé: This is a special jacket that conducts electricity. It covers the fencer's torso and arms. It stops at the waist. - Mask: The mask also conducts electricity. It connects to the lamé with a wire and a crocodile clip. Since you can score with the edge of the blade, the sabre blade does not need a pressure-sensitive tip like the foil or épée. When fencing with an electric sabre, a small current runs through the blade. When the blade touches the opponent's lamé, electric mask, or glove cuff, the current flows. This tells the scoring machine that a hit has happened. How Scoring Works A special scoring machine helps the referee decide who scored a point. This machine shows lights (red or green for each fencer) and makes sounds when a hit is made. A short ring or a continuous sound tells everyone a hit happened. Sometimes, a white light appears. This means a fencer hit an area that is not a valid target. Understanding the Lockout Period The "lockout period" is a very short time set in the scoring machine. It is the minimum time between two hits. This helps the referee make fair decisions. After the 2016 Olympic Games, the lockout time was changed. It went from 120 milliseconds (ms) to 170 ms. (A millisecond is one-thousandth of a second, so these are very short times!) Scoring machines with this new setting have a special "FIE 2016" label. - If two hits happen, and the time between them is longer than the lockout period, only one light shows up. The referee will usually give the point to the fencer who hit first. - If two hits happen within the lockout period, both lights show up. In this case, the referee uses a rule called 'right of way' to decide who gets the point. Changing the lockout time made sabre fencing faster. It put more focus on quick footwork. Some fencers did not like the change at first. They felt it made the sport less artistic. But over time, fencers adapted. The new timings encouraged smaller, more precise movements. This made sabre fencing even faster and more accurate. The Right of Way Rule When both fencers hit at the same time (and both lights go on), the referee uses the "right of way" rule. This rule gives the point to the fencer who had priority. Usually, this is the fencer who started an attack correctly. Here are some ways a fencer can gain the right of way: - Attacking first: Starting an attack by extending your arm and threatening your opponent's target. - Beating the blade: Hitting your opponent's blade first, then attacking. - Point in line: Holding your arm straight and your point aimed at your opponent's chest before they start their attack. If your opponent tries to attack you while you have "point in line," they must move your blade aside first. - Defending and hitting back: Making an immediate counter-attack after your opponent's attack fails. This could be after you block their attack (a parry-riposte) or if their attack misses. If neither fencer has the "right of way" in a double hit (for example, if both attack at exactly the same time), no point is given. The action is called a "simultaneous attack." The right of way rules help make fencing fair. They encourage fencers to use smart techniques to hit without being hit themselves. The Referee's Role The referee is in charge of the match. They can stop the action for safety, if a fencer gets hurt, or if someone breaks a rule. When the referee says "halt," no more points can be scored. If a fencer breaks a rule, the referee might give a warning or show a penalty card: - Yellow card: This is a warning. The fencer's hit might not count. For example, a yellow card can be given if a fencer moves too early or keeps acting after "halt." - Red card: This is a more serious penalty. The fencer's hit usually does not count, and the opponent gets a point. Getting two yellow cards also leads to a red card. - Black card: This is the most serious penalty. The fencer is removed from the tournament. This can happen for very serious rule breaks, like refusing to salute or cheating. Referees often use French words to score the match. But in many places, they use the local language. In international competitions, referees must use French. They also use hand signals to show what happened. This helps everyone understand, even if there is a language barrier. Sabre Fencing Techniques Sabre fencing is often very fast. It is usually easier to attack than to defend. High-level sabre matches are quick and exciting. To keep the sport safe and fair, some rules about movement were changed. For example, fencers are not allowed to do a "forward cross-over" (where the back foot crosses in front of the front foot). This means the "flèche" attack, which is a running attack, is not allowed. Instead, sabre fencers use a "flunge" (flying lunge). In a flunge, the fencer pushes off the ground and moves forward quickly to hit before their feet cross. Sabre defense involves several main parries (blocks): - Tierce (say "tee-AIRS"): Blocks attacks high and to the outside. - Quarte (say "KART"): Blocks attacks high and to the inside (chest area). - Quinte (say "KANT"): Blocks attacks to the head. There are also other parries, like Prime, Seconde, and Sixte. These parries help cover different parts of the target area. Another parry, called "the Hungarian," is used when both fencers rush towards each other. The fencer uses a sweeping motion to block attacks and cover almost the entire target area. Sabre parries are meant to block an incoming attack directly. Fencers try to make their parries as late as possible. This stops them from falling for fake attacks. "Circles" are also used to defend against stabs to the body. These are very useful because they cover a large part of the target area. Fencers can also use their body with the blade for defense. For example, a fencer might jump in the air and block with a "Seconde" parry. This can help them block an attack while gaining a height advantage. Another move is to squat down and use a "Quinte" parry. This makes the fencer a smaller target and protects their weak points. Each fencing weapon has a different speed. Épée and foil can be slow with sudden bursts of speed. Sabre, however, is fast throughout the entire match. Many coaches now teach fencers to use smaller steps to control the pace. See also In Spanish: Sable (esgrima) para niños


--- [Sabre (fencing)] ---
The sabre (US English: saber, both pronounced ) is one of the three disciplines of modern fencing alongside foil & epee. The sabre weapon is for thrusting and cutting with both the cutting edge and the back of the blade (unlike the other modern fencing weapons, the épée and foil, where a touch is scored only using the point of the blade).
The informal term sabre fencer refers to sabre fencers of both genders.


--- [What is the equipment used in fencing? - Heimduo] ---
No content
