=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Stockholm Research Reactor - Nuclear Heritage]
"R1 was the first nuclear reactor of Sweden. It was a research reactor located at the Royal Institute of Technology (KTH) campus at Valhallavägen in central Stockholm, in the rock beneath the current-day Q-Houses. The reactor was active from July 13, 1954 to June 6, 1970.
URL: https://www.nuclear-heritage.net/index.php/Stockholm_Research_Reactor

[History of the KTH Reactor Hall | KTH]
The Reactor Hall at KTH was originally the site of Sweden's first nuclear reactor, the research reactor R1. The research reactor was in operation between 1954 and 1970. Today, the Reactor Hall at KTH serves as a bookable venue and creative meeting...
URL: https://www.kth.se/en/om/upptack/r1/historik-om-kth-reaktorhallen-1.699973

[Royal Institute of Technology - Top University in Sweden ...]
First Swedish Nuclear Research Reactor (R1) Tell me about their Notable Achievements in this order Achievement Name, Achievement Year and Acheievment Descriptionu2028Located beneath KTH's Valhallavägen campus, the reactor R1 achieved criticality on 13 July 1954.
URL: https://www.gotouniversity.com/university/royal-institute-of-technology

[R1 (reaktor) - Wikipedia]
Reaktorn blev kritisk klockan 18.59 den 13 juli 1954, tolv år efter att Enrico Fermi i Chicago i Illinois för första gången i mänsklighetens historia åstadkommit samma sak. Det var den första självunderhållande kärnreaktionen i Sverige. Reaktoreffekten var ursprungligen 300 kW men höjdes senare till 1 MW.
URL: https://sv.wikipedia.org/wiki/R1_(reaktor)

[R1 (nuclear reactor) - Wikiwand]
R1 was the first nuclear reactor of Sweden. It was a research reactor located at the KTH Royal Institute of Technology campus at Valhallavägen in central Stockholm, in the rock beneath the current-day Q buildings. The reactor was active from July 13, 1954 to June 6, 1970. The reactor was dismantled, and there is nothing left of it today; the reactor hall however still exists.
URL: https://www.wikiwand.com/en/articles/R1_(nuclear_reactor)


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Stockholm Research Reactor - Nuclear Heritage] ---
Stockholm Research Reactor From Nuclear Heritage Jump to navigationJump to search- R1 Reactor in Nucleus IAEA-Database (IAEA Code SE0004) "R1 was the first nuclear reactor of Sweden. It was a research reactor located at the Royal Institute of Technology (KTH) campus at Valhallavägen in central Stockholm, in the rock beneath the current-day Q-Houses. The reactor was active from July 13, 1954 to June 6, 1970. The reactor was dismantled, and there is nothing left of it today; the reactor hall however still exists. The effect of the reactor was originally 300 kW but was later increased to 1 MW."[1] - first criticality: 13/07/1954[2] 18.59 o'clock[3] - reactor type: pool[2] - moderator & coolant: heavy water[2] - neutron reflector: graphite[2] - therm power: 600.000 kW[2] - control rods: 2[2] - fuel: natural uranium[3] - closed: 1970[3] - ↑ http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=R1_(nuclear_reactor)&oldid=475725965 as at September 26, 2012 - ↑ 2.02.12.22.32.42.5 http://nucleus.iaea.org/RRDB/RR/GeneralInfo.aspx?RId=682 as at September 26, 2012 - ↑ 3.03.13.2 http://sv.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=R1_(reaktor)&oldid=16826548 as at September 26, 2012


--- [History of the KTH Reactor Hall | KTH] ---
History of the KTH Reactor Hall The Reactor Hall at KTH was originally the site of Sweden's first nuclear reactor, the research reactor R1. The research reactor was in operation between 1954 and 1970. Today, the Reactor Hall at KTH serves as a bookable venue and creative meeting place, and is used not least in activities with the artistic colleges in Stockholm. 1998 - Present The proposal for a creative meeting place became a reality In 1998, the Swedish National Agency for Higher Education invited universities and colleges to apply for funding for collaboration with artists. A group of teachers and researchers at the Department of Media Technology at KTH developed several proposals. One of them was that KTH should establish an experimental stage for different kinds of activities - a creative meeting place. One venue was the main option – Reactor Hall! After a few years of initial tests and preparation of the premises, KTH became the formal tenant from 2007. Since then, the Reactor Hall has served as a mixture of museum, cultural center, seminar room, studio, lab and more. Method of measuring radiation left a mark The KTH Reactor Hall was in operation until 1970. The main task of the research conducted there was to study the properties of neutrons and other particles and radioactive radiation. In 1970, the KTH Reactor Hall was permanently shut down and demolished in 1982. A few years later, measurements of residual radiation were made. In order to carry out the measurements in a structured way, a coordinate system was used. The measurements showed that the radiation was below the applicable limit values and the facility was thus cleared by the Swedish Radiation Protection Institute. The clearance means that the former reactor facility could begin to be used for other activities. Today, traces of the Reactor R1 as a research reactor are visible, among other things through the coordinate system in the ceiling, which contributes to the special character of the facility. 1923 - 2015 The story of how the Skandia organ ended up in the “Cathedral of Science” The Skandia cinema from 1923 had Stockholm's most lavish auditorium, designed by the great architect of the time, Gunnar Asplund. In 1926, Svensk Filmindustri bought an organ for the cinema. The order went to the Rudolph Wurlitzer Company in the USA. The idea was that the organ would be played for silent films, but it was used long after sound films had become popular. When the Cinemascope widescreen format was introduced in the 1950s, the organ was eventually sold to the City of Stockholm and moved to the Blue Hall in the City Hall. There it was used as a replacement during a renovation of the City Hall organ. When the renovation was completed, the parts of the Skandia organ were placed in the attic of the City Hall, literally on top of the Blue Hall. The parts remained there for over 40 years. In August 2005, a number of people gathered at KTH to discuss the possibilities of restoring the Skandia organ. Visits were made to the Music Museum's storage room in Tumba, where the Skandia organ's console had ended up, and to the City Hall. Pipes and other parts were inventoried and inspected. Restoration work was deemed feasible! The Skandia Organ Association was formed in April 2006 with the aim of preserving, restoring, making available and using the organ. A collaboration was initiated with KTH. The story says that the researchers at the KTH Reactor Hall used to call it the "Cathedral of Science". And what could be better than an organ in a cathedral? Extensive work was undertaken to renovate pipes, install bellows and other technology. Construction of the organ house in the side aisle of the Reactor Hall began in April 2011. Thousands of volunteer hours have been put in by members of the association. All the parts of the Skandia organ are in place, with the large bass drum last arriving in August 2015, ten years after the first meeting. The rededication took place in October 2015. The Skandia organ is now used for concerts and other activities, including research into music and technology. 1945 - 1970 The story of Sweden's first nuclear reactor After the end of the Second World War 1945, the Atomic Committee was formed to clarify "how nuclear research should be organized" and to "find suitable methods for the utilization of nuclear power for peaceful purposes". In accordance with the Atomic Committee's proposal, AB Atomenergi was established in 1947. The Atomic Committee consisted of 10 delegates, science professors and people with direct or indirect links to the armed forces, including KTH professor Hannes Alfvén. The company's mission was to research and build experimental reactors, but later also to conduct industrial and commercial activities. At the time, IVA, the Swedish Academy of Engineering Sciences, had an experimental station on Drottning Kristinas väg at KTH Royal Institute of Technology in what was then known as "Vetenskapsstaden", and IVA lent space so that activities related to a research reactor could begin. The reactor facility itself was blasted down just over 25 meters below ground level. After a couple of years of construction and initial testing, Reactor 1 (R1) was started. At 18:59 on July 13, 1954, the reactor went critical, meaning that nuclear fission became self-sustaining. The main task of the research at Reactor Hall R1 was to study the properties of neutrons and other particles and radioactive radiation.


--- [Royal Institute of Technology - Top University in Sweden ...] ---
Royal Institute of Technology Sweden Study in Sweden with Royal Institute of Technology Royal Institute of Technology is a public research university which was established in the year 1827. The university is located in Stockholm, Sweden and is regularly ranked as one of the highest among institutes of technology in Europe and the world. The university has five campuses: KTH Sodertalje Campus, Haninge Campus, Flemingsberg Campus, Kista Campus, and Maine Campus. Royal Institute of Technology offers numerous degree programs, some of them are: Architecture, Engineering, Biotechnology, Urban Management, Computer Science, Design and Product Realisation, Energy and Environment, Industrial Technology and Sustainability, Materials Design, Media Technology, Property Development and Agency, Real Estate and Finance, Architectural Lighting Design, Applied Logistics, and many more. The university has six schools of: Architecture and the Built Environment, Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, Engineering Sciences, Engineering Sciences in Chemistry, Biotechnology and Health, and Industrial Engineering and Management. The university also has European Institute of Innovation and Technology, EIT and many competence Centres as well. Royal Institute of Technology has 14,500 students which include 1,700 Doctoral students of different nationalities. The university has more than 950 Faculty members and the acceptance rate is 50%. Royal Institute of Technology provides scholarship opportunities to the students on the basis of academic excellence. The Royal Institute of Technology was awarded "Centre of Excellent Quality in Higher Education" (in Vehicle Engineering). In 2009, KTH was the only institute among all Sweden's universities to be awarded as a Centre of Excellent Quality in Higher Education (in computer science). The university also comprises four Libraries which provide guidance in information retrieval, databases, reference management and in writing papers. Notable Alumni: Samir Brikho (chief executive of AMEC), Ivar Jacobson (inventor of sequence diagrams), Carl Munters (inventor) How can we add value to your Higher Education Journey Our top consultants can guide & ensure your admissions into Royal Institute of Technology. We have successfully counselled students for their admission into many top universities like Royal Institute of Technology , Yale University , University of Washington , University of Pennsylvania, University of Oxford , University of California Los Angeles and many other top universities. Contact Us Now We also can help you with following Services College Profile for Royal Institute of Technology Royal Institute of Technology Application Requirements IELTS score requirements A strong proficiency in the English language is essential for admission into universities in Sweden. To be able to get a successful admission in Royal Institute of Technology in Sweden students need to complete IELTS with a minimum score of 6.5.Click here to book a free diagnostic test with our expert trainers Royal Institute of Technology Cost of studies Fees Bachelors: SEK 122,000 Masters: SEK 260,000 Fees may vary for each program. Please visit program page for specific fees. Royal Institute of Technology Deadlines Bachelors: January 15 Masters: January 15 Deadlines may vary for each program. Please visit the program page for specific deadlines.


--- [R1 (reaktor) - Wikipedia] ---
Ej att förväxla med reaktor 1 på Ringhals kärnkraftverk.

R1 var Sveriges första kärnreaktor.  Den var belägen vid Drottning Kristinas Väg 51 vid Kungliga Tekniska högskolan (KTH)  i Stockholm, och var i drift från 13 juli 1954 till 6 juni 1970. Reaktorn konstruerades och byggdes av AB Atomenergi med Sigvard Eklund som projektledare och viss hjälp av Lise Meitner. Reaktorhallen ägs idag (2021) av Akademiska Hus.


--- [R1 (nuclear reactor) - Wikiwand] ---
No content
