=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Supreme Court of Argentina - Simple English Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia]
The current composition of the Supreme Court is as follows: President: Dr.
URL: https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki/Supreme_Court_of_Argentina

[Rosenkrantz elected president of Argentina's Supreme Court | Buenos Aires Times]
He is the first Argentine Supreme Court justice of Jewish origin. Justice Ricardo Lorenzetti (left) with his replacement as president of the Supreme Court, Justice Carlos Rosenkrantz.
URL: https://www.batimes.com.ar/news/argentina/rosenkrantz-elected-president-of-argentinas-supreme-court.phtml

[Argentina - Justice, Legal System, Courts | Britannica]
Argentina’s social welfare services were developed on a large scale during the first presidency (1946–55) of Juan Perón. A social security system was set up to provide extensive benefits for all workers.
URL: https://www.britannica.com/place/Argentina/Justice

[Supreme Court of Argentina]
After Carlos Menem's election as president, the Argentine judicial system was the target of much pressure from the executive power. In 1989, Menem expanded Argentina's highest court from five to nine members, and chose the four new justices.
URL: https://www.dl1.en-us.nina.az/Argentine_Supreme_Court.html

[President Carlos Menem and the “Automatic Majority” in Argentina’s Supreme Court - News - First Liberty]
After his election to the presidency in 1989, Carlos Menem quickly launched a campaign to pack the Argentine Supreme Court, asking congress to increase the number from five to nine judges.
URL: https://firstliberty.org/news/automatic-majority-in-argentinas-supreme-court/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Supreme Court of Argentina - Simple English Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia] ---
The Supreme Court of Argentina (Spanish: Corte Suprema de Argentina), officially the Supreme Court of Justice of the Nation (Spanish: Corte Suprema de Justicia de la Nación, CSJN), is the highest court of law of the Argentine Nation. It was inaugurated on 15 January 1863. During much of the 20th century, it and the Argentine judicial system in general lacked autonomy from the executive power. It was reformed in 2003 by the decree 222/03.
The Supreme Court functions as a last resort tribunal. Its rulings cannot be appealed. It also decides on cases dealing with the interpretation of the constitution (for example, it can overturn a law passed by Congress if deems it unconstitutional).
The members of the Supreme Court are appointed by the President with the agreement of at least two-thirds of the present Senate members in a session convened for that purpose, and can only be removed by an impeachment process called juicio político ("political trial"), initiated by the Chamber of Deputies and carried out by the Senate, exclusively on grounds of improper behaviour.




--- [Rosenkrantz elected president of Argentina's Supreme Court | Buenos Aires Times] ---
Justice Carlos Rosenkrantz was elected president of the Supreme Court on Tuesday, in a surprise power transition that has put an end to Justice Ricardo Lorenzetti's 11-year term in the same role. Rosenkrantz was confirmed as a Supreme Court Justice in August, 2016. His nomination sparked controversy at the time, as it was originally passed by presidential decree. President Mauricio Macri was eventually forced to retreat on his decision, publicly recognising it as mistake and sending the nomination through the normal channels of Congress. In his short time on Argentina's highest tribunal, Rosenkrantz's decisions have been the subject of debate and division. In 2017, he voted in favour of extending the so-called "two for one" ruling to human rights cases, through which those who had been found guilty of crimes against humanity could apply for reduced sentences, like defendants in other types of criminal cases. BACKGROUND Justice Rosenkrantz is 59-years-old, a graduate of the University of Buenos Aires (UBA) Law Faculty and a masters and doctors graduate of Yale. He is the first Argentine Supreme Court justice of Jewish origin. Before joining the Court, Rosenkrantz was the Dean of San Andrés University and had previously taught at New York University, Richmond School of Law at Denver University, at the Universitat Pompeu Fabra in Spain, and at the UBA. In a political sense, Rosenkrantz is tied to the UCR Radical Party. In 1984, at the age of 25, he was an adviser on the Consolidation of Democracy Counsel, a body set up by then-president Raúl Alfonsín to guide the country's return to democracy. He considered is a disciple of the philosopher and legal expert Carlos Nino. In 1991, Rosenkrantz represented the Argentine Homosexual Community (CHA) in a case agains the General Inspector's Office (IGJ) for discrimination. Rosenkrantz is an associate of the firm Bouzat, Rosenkrantz & Asociados, whose clients have included the country's largest media conglomerate Clarín Group. Justice Elena Highton de Nolasco will act as Rosenkrantz's vice-president. His term will expire in 2021. -TIMES/PERFIL


--- [Argentina - Justice, Legal System, Courts | Britannica] ---
Justice of Argentina The Argentine judicial system is divided into federal and provincial courts. The nine federal Supreme Court judges are appointed by the president with approval of the Senate. Lower federal court judges are nominated by a Council of Magistrates and chosen by the president. Reforms begun in the 1990s addressed long-standing problems of inefficiency, corruption, and unfilled vacancies. There are federal courts of appeal in Buenos Aires and other large cities. The provincial justice system includes supreme courts, appellate courts, courts of first instance, and justices of the peace. News • The judiciary has been criticized as inefficient and open to political influence, despite recent reforms. Among the persistent problems cited are arbitrary arrests, lengthy pretrial detentions, and harsh prison conditions. However, cases involving human rights abuses have received increasing attention since the 1980s. The government has designated a prisons ombudsman since 1993 to monitor conditions and recommend prison reforms. The national prison system is directed by the Ministry of Justice. There are also separate provincial prisons. The number of prisoners in Argentina increased greatly in the 1990s, from roughly 21,000 to nearly 40,000, or to as many as 58,000 by some estimates. The rate of incarceration also increased rapidly. Pretrial detainees account for more than half of the prison population. Political process The political party system in Argentina has been volatile, particularly since the mid-20th century, with numerous parties forming, taking part in elections, and disbanding as new factions evolve. Among the major parties are the Radical Civic Union (Unión Cívica Radical; UCR), a centrist party with moderate leftist leanings; the Justicialist Party (Partido Justicialista; PJ), more commonly known as the Peronist party (for its founder, former president Juan Perón), traditionally nationalist and pro-labour but supportive of neoliberal economic policies during the 1990s (it split into two factions before the 2005 elections: the Front for Victory [Frente para la Victoria; FPV] and the Federal Peronists); the Front for a Country in Solidarity (Frente del País Solidario; Frepaso), a moderate leftist grouping of dissident Peronists; and the Union of the Democratic Centre (Unión del Centro Democrático; UCD, or UCéDé), a traditional liberal party. The PJ has controlled the government most of the time since civilian rule was restored in the early 1980s, notably under President Carlos Menem in the 1990s. Frepaso was founded in 1994 from the left-wing Broad Front, the Christian Democratic Party, and other groups; three years later it formed an alliance with the UCR and in 1999–2001 held the government. The national electoral code provides that 30 percent of candidates proposed by political parties for elected office must be women. About one-fourth of the members of the Chamber of Deputies are women, but the Senate remains overwhelmingly male. Voting is compulsory for citizens aged 18 to 70. Beginning in 2013 those aged 16 and 17 were granted the option of voting. Women’s rights have been established through a series of legislative acts guaranteeing the right to vote, to work and to receive equal pay for equal work, and to stand on equal footing in a marriage, including in the authority over children. In 1985 the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women was ratified, and in 1991 the Coordinating Council for Public Policies on Women was established to ensure its fulfillment. Departments of women’s affairs operate within many federal and local agencies and in such institutions as labour unions. Security The military has traditionally been a factor in Argentina’s political life, and the country has experienced several periods of military rule, including 1976–83. Since then, however, annual military spending has fallen to only a tiny fraction of GDP. Of the roughly 70,000 active military personnel in the army, navy, and air force, some three-fifths of the total are in the army. The Coast Guard provides security and rescue services, and there is also an 18,000-member paramilitary Gendarmería Nacional under the direction of the Ministry of the Interior, deployable for both national and international security functions. Argentina has sent troops to UN missions in Cyprus, Iraq and Kuwait, and Serbia and Montenegro (Yugoslavia) and has provided observers in a number of other locations as well. Argentina also has a federal police force that is controlled by the president through the minister of the interior. Health and welfare An extensive system of hospitals and clinics in Argentina is run by national, provincial, and local authorities as well as by private organizations. The cost of medical care is covered by a comprehensive array of occupational insurance plans. Public health and sanitation standards are particularly high in developed places but can drop off considerably in some of the undeveloped areas. Diseases such as smallpox, cholera, yellow fever, and tuberculosis have been brought under control or eliminated. Average life expectancy at birth exceeds 75 years, higher than that in many South American countries. Argentina’s social welfare services were developed on a large scale during the first presidency (1946–55) of Juan Perón. A social security system was set up to provide extensive benefits for all workers. Housing, however, has become a problem in cities because of the movement of workers from rural areas, especially during periods of economic difficulty. These workers have congregated on the outskirts of urban zones—and more recently on vacant land in the inner cities—and assembled dwellings from corrugated iron and scraps of wood, cardboard, and other scavenged materials. The resulting shantytown communities, called villas miserias, lack amenities such as public utilities and paved roads.


--- [Supreme Court of Argentina] ---
A comprehensive digital encyclopedia presenting factual, historical, and educational articles supported by reliable sources and structured data. Wikipedia | Encyclopedia March 03, 2026 / 09:39 March 03, 2026 / 09:39 March 03, 2026 / 09:36 March 03, 2026 / 09:33 March 03, 2026 / 09:29 March 03, 2026 / 09:26 March 03, 2026 / 09:23


--- [President Carlos Menem and the “Automatic Majority” in Argentina’s Supreme Court - News - First Liberty] ---
by First Liberty Institute • 7 min read Just like Hugo Chavez stacking Venezuela’s Supreme Court with thirty-two (32) judges led to a downward spiral that destroyed freedom and judicial independence, history offers another cautionary tale of court-packing causing irreparable constitutional damage in a neighboring Latin American nation: Argentina. After his election to the presidency in 1989, Carlos Menem quickly launched a campaign to pack the Argentine Supreme Court, asking congress to increase the number from five to nine judges. President’s Menem’s expansion of the Court was clearly motivated by a power-grab from the outset. He sought to consolidate judicial power by fixing the Court with a favorable majority that would rubber stamp his political agenda. At one point, he infamously stated: “Why should I be the only president in Argentine history not to have my own court?” By the spring of the following year (1990), Argentina’s two houses of congress passed the court-packing bill that gave Menem the additional Supreme Court judges he needed. But if rigging the numbers on the Court wasn’t bad enough, the underhanded tactic of how Menem and his allies rammed it through is even worse. The necessary quorum was not present in the Chamber of Deputies (similar to the U.S. House of Representatives) when the bill came to the floor for a vote. A New York Times commentator described the “proceedings” as follows: “…His [Pres. Menem’s] regime is getting away with undermining democracy. In 1990, he essentially put the Argentine Supreme Court in his pocket when he packed it with new appointees loyal to him. He sneaked this measure through the Congress one night by using busboys and clerks to fill the seats for a ‘quorum.’ ” Menem’s loyalists were appointed to the Court overnight—literally. It’s reported the president’s judicial picks went to congress on a Thursday afternoon and the Senate confirmed them on Friday morning, in a seven-minute secret session, without the attendance of the opposition legislators. There was no previous screening of the candidates and no public hearings. In short time, Menem’s grip on the Argentine Supreme Court became known throughout the country as the “automatic majority”—a stack of hand-picked judges who regularly ruled in his favor, often using highly dubious legal reasoning. Court-Packing Led to Decline in Political Climate, Economy and Civil Liberties Similar to democracy’s rapid decline in Venezuela, it didn’t take long for Argentina to feel the disastrous effects of Menem’s court-packing scheme. In 1999, Freedom House—widely respected for its research and advocacy on democracy, political freedom, and human rights—reported: “Menem’s authoritarian ways and manipulation of the judiciary have resulted in the undermining of the country’s separation of powers and the rule of law…Overall, the judicial system is politicized, inefficient, and riddled with the corruption endemic to all branches of government. In 1999, as the election hopes of Menem’s party were dashed, the judiciary appeared to take a somewhat more independent course. The politization of the judiciary, however, remains a grave problem.” Public trust in the judiciary comes from knowing that judges will be impartial arbiters in legal disputes, which is why judicial independence is a cornerstone of a free society. However, public confidence in the judiciary quickly dissipates when courts are stacked and politicized in favor of one party or ideology—which is exactly what reports show happened in Argentina. Among eighteen (18) Latin American nations between 1995 – 2007: Beyond undermining judicial legitimacy, court-packing gave President Menem the power to impose a “series of radical neoliberal economic reforms, which ultimately…contributed to an acute economic recession that pauperized millions of Argentines, especially among the working class.” Civil liberties in Argentina also suffered as a result of court-packing. A 1993 University of Miami Law School study analyzed the Menem-stacked Supreme Court’s ruling on a high-profile case relating to freedom of the press: “The Argentine Supreme Court…is now a completely different court, packed by Menem. Recent Supreme Court decisions suggest that the change in composition means an equally significant change in jurisprudence. Its prior agenda, as a supporter of human rights, is unlikely to continue.” The report continued: “…Justifiably suspect the Court of complying with Menem’s political agenda, which excludes the improvement of human rights. Also, due to Menem’s antagonism toward the press, the Court’s opinion can be characterized as a political blow against the press…” In a matter of a single decade after Menem turned the Court into a puppet of the executive, Argentina saw a marked deterioration in judicial independence, political instability, decreased public confidence in institutions and a disregard of basic constitutional liberties. Many proponents of so-called judicial “reform” in America dismiss the lessons left to us by other countries. But it’s abundantly clear that those nations who indulged the bonehead idea of court-packing—such as Argentina and Venezuela—took a giant leap toward the destruction of their constitutional order. For Americans, the most powerful warning sign from Argentina’s history is this: No nation, not even the United States, is immune to tyranny—and the “Land of the Free” will quickly march toward authoritarianism unless we resoundingly expose the failures of court-packing.
