=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Ukpe-okhue - Wikipedia]
The ukpe-okhue (Edo for " parrot 's beak") is a crown traditionally worn by the Iyoba (queen mother) of the Oba of Benin. It is formed of a snood -like net of precious coral beadwork, using ileke ("royal") cylindrical beads.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ukpe-okhue

[Ukpe-okhue explained]
The ukpe-okhue (Edo for " parrot 's beak") is a crown traditionally worn by the Iyoba (queen mother) of the Oba of Benin. It is formed of a snood -like net of precious coral beadwork, using ileke ("royal") cylindrical beads.
URL: https://everything.explained.today/Ukpe-okhue/

[Ukpe-okhue - Unionpedia, the concept map]
The ukpe-okhue (Edo for "parrot's beak") is a crown traditionally worn by the Iyoba (queen mother) of the Oba of Benin. 11 relations.
URL: https://en.unionpedia.org/Ukpe-okhue

[Queen Mother Pendant Mask (Iyoba) (Edo peoples) - Smarthistory]
The title of Queen Mother, or Iyoba, is given to the woman who bears the Oba's first son, the future ruler of the kingdom. Historically, the Queen Mother would have no other children and, instead, devote her life to raising her son. Oba Esigie is said to have worn the mask as a pectoral during rites commemorating his mother.
URL: https://smarthistory.org/queen-mother-pendant-mask-iyoba/

[Benin bronze hip masks and Benin Oba commemorative heads - RAND AFRICAN ART]
Queen mother heads are distinguished by a special type of coral-bead crown with a high, forward-pointing peak, an elongated version of an elaborate coiffure known as "chicken's beak," worn by high-ranking Edo women (fig. 19;
URL: https://randafricanart.com/Benin_Oba_commemorative_heads.html


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Ukpe-okhue - Wikipedia] ---
The ukpe-okhue (Edo for "parrot's beak") is a crown traditionally worn by the Iyoba (queen mother) of the Oba of Benin. It is formed of a snood-like net of precious coral beadwork, using ileke ("royal") cylindrical beads.
This type of crown was originated, and first worn, by the original queen mother Idia, the first woman granted the privilege to wear ileke beads.
Named after a parrot's beak, it is a pointed hat, with its shape somewhat resembling a Phrygian cap with its point curving forward.


--- [Ukpe-okhue explained] ---
No content


--- [Ukpe-okhue - Unionpedia, the concept map] ---
No content


--- [Queen Mother Pendant Mask (Iyoba) (Edo peoples) - Smarthistory] ---
No content


--- [Benin bronze hip masks and Benin Oba commemorative heads - RAND AFRICAN ART] ---
| Benin Oba and Queen Mother commemorative heads This page is for educational purposes only. I do not have any Benin items in my collection. | | Benin Oba commemorative heads As a result of the abrupt and violent manner in which most royal art forms of the kingdom of Benin were removed from their original context by the British in 1897, there is a dearth of documentation to situate individual works historically. This has led art historians to propose stylistic theories concerning their chronological execution. Current leaders of the kingdom of Benin trace their origins to a ruling dynasty that began in the fourteenth century. Brass commemorative heads are commissioned by each oba (king) in the first years of his reign to honor his immediate predecessor. Although these heads represent specific obas, they are not portraits in the sense that they capture the individual features of the kings. Rather, they are idealized depictions that emphasize the trappings of kingship. Consequently, the attribution of specific heads to particular obas has eluded scholars. However, since these heads document a unique historical narrative, scholars have attempted to determine the sequence in which they were created based on their stylistic and physical attributes. The current accepted theory is that the smallest and most naturalistic heads are the earliest, with a gradual progression toward increased size and degree of stylization. Between 1500 and 1800, the Benin kingdom gradually grew in both wealth and power, primarily through extensive trade with the Portuguese. In the arts, this expansion is manifested in a dramatic increase in the size and ostentation of royal regalia. Crowns of Edo kings grew steadily more encrusted with coral beading and this appears to have been reflected in changes in commemorative representations as well. Additionally, the largess of royal patronage decreased artisans’ incentive to be judicious with expensive materials, allowing them to create ever-larger objects. Therefore, in the attempt to construct a chronology for Benin art, it makes sense that later heads would be both heavier and larger objects that conspicuously consumed greater quantities of imported brass and emphasized the more elaborate regalia. The earliest heads have light thin walls and a tight-fitting collar that does not cover the chin. They have no beaded crown. The next period includes heads that are larger and heavier. The beaded collar reaches the mouth, with the addition of bead clusters to the crown. The head is far more stylized and has a wide and cylindrical shape; additionally, the cheeks appear swollen and the eyes are enlarged. In the third period, the flange is expanded and the features are further exaggerated. There are winglike projections on the crowns, which are thought to represent the ceremonial swords of the court. There are also representations of beads that hang in front of the eyes. Emma George Ross Research Assitant, part time Arts of Africa, Oceania, and the Americas | | Head of an Oba, 16th century (ca. 1550) Nigeria; Edo peoples, court of Benin Brass; H. 9 1/4 in. (23.5 cm) The Michael C. Rockefeller Memorial Collection, Bequest of Nelson A. Rockefeller, 1979 (1979.206.86) Metropolitan Museum of Art The leaders of the kingdom of Benin in present-day Nigeria trace their origins to a ruling dynasty that began in the fourteenth century. The title of "oba," or king, is passed on to the firstborn son of each successive king of Benin at the time of his death. The first obligation of each new king during this transition of rule is to commemorate his father with a portrait cast in bronze and placed on an altar at the palace. The altar constitutes an important site of palace ritual and is understood to be a means of incorporating the ongoing influence of past kings in the affairs of their descendents. Though associated with individuals, this highly stylized genre of commemorative portraiture emphasized the trappings and regalia of kingship rather than specific facial features. In the Edo world view, the head is considered the locus of a man's knowledge, authority, success, and family leadership. The burden of providing for his family and seeing them through times of trouble is often described as being "on his head." The oba is often called by his praise name "Great Head," accentuating the head of the living leader as the locus of responsibility over and for the Benin kingdom. The idealized naturalism of this work reflects conventions of depicting the king at the prime of his life. The straightforward gazing eyes, which would have included iron inlays, possess the ability to see into the other world, communicating the divine power of the oba to survey his kingdom. The beaded headdress and collar are depictions of the king's coral regalia. Coral is of particular importance to the Edo because of its associations with the ancestral realms of the sea and to the immense wealth of the oba gained through ocean-going trade with Europe. The relatively minimal amount of brass used to make this light cast and the proportionately small amount of regalia depicted indicate that the head was created during the earlier half of the sixteenth century. Art historians have suggested that over the centuries, as greater quantities of brass became available, casters had less incentive to be economical with the material, and the trappings of office worn by the kings of Benin became more ostentatious. | | Head of an Oba (King), 18th century Nigeria; Edo peoples, court of Benin Brass; H. 13 in. (33 cm) Gift of Mr. and Mrs. Klaus G. Perls, 1991 (1991.17.2) Metropolitan Museum of Art The overall cylindrical shape, beaded collar covering the chin, and addition of bead clusters to the crown identify this Benin brass head as belonging to the eighteenth century. The crown, with its pattern of crisscrossed beads with junctures marked by a dot in the center, is characteristic of this period, as are the three raised marks above each eye which are called ikharo, believed to represent scarification marks. Men would usually have three, while women and foreigners would wear four. The pointed oval eyes are outlined with heavy stylized rims, which are not decorated with incisions like those of later examples. Additionally there is no wide-lipped flange at the base of the head, which became an integral component of nineteenth-century heads. | | Head of an Oba (King), 19th century Nigeria; Edo peoples, court of Benin Brass, iron; H. 18 in. (45.7 cm) Gift of Mr. and Mrs. Klaus G. Perls, 1991 (1991.17.3) Metropolitan Museum of Art This example of a brass casting of a Benin head may date to the mid-nineteenth century. The extreme degree of stylization, swollen cheeks and enlarged eyes, the size of the flange at the base, the weight of the casting, and the winglike projections attached to the crowns are characteristic of brass casting during this later period of Benin royal court. | | AN IMPORTANT BENIN ROYAL COMMEMORATIVE HEAD, EDO, KINGDOM OF BENIN, XIX CENTURY, NIGERIA LOCATION ESTIMATE AUCTION DATE Sotheby's Paris 150,000—200,000 EUR Session 1 03 Dec 04 3:00 PM Lot Sold. Hammer Price with Buyer's Premium: 456,000 EUR measurements haut. 40,5 cm alternate measurements 16 in Cette tête représente un oba, identifié par la couronne royale, le bandeau frontal et le très haut collier à 28 rangs composé de perles de corail. Chaque côté de la tête est orné d'un motif en forme d'ailette, au bord ajouré. Le visage présente des traits naturalistes travaillés avec une très grande finesse, les sourcils signifiés par des hachures régulières, de très fins cercles gravés sous les yeux dont ils suivent la ligne courbe, le front orné du motif classique de triple scarifications. La base traitée en collerette offre un décor d'une très belle qualité de fonte, alternant les motifs traditionnels royaux de celts, de léopards - dont la tête est projetée en haut relief, de grenouilles, de vaches et de trompes d'éléphants. Patine brun foncé. Excellent état de conservation. PROVENANCE Rapportée par le Fleet-Paymaster William Hawken Rowe, R.N., lors de l'expédition punitive menée par les Anglais en 1897 sur Benin City Sa fille, Dorothy A. Walker l'a mise en vente chez Sotheby's, Londres, le 4 juin 1962, lot 144 | | Queen Mother heads | | Fig 20. Head of a queen mother. Nigeria, Edo; Court of Benin, 16th century. Brass; h. 20 in. (50.8 cm). Staatliche Museen Preussischer Kulturbesitz, Museum fur Volkerkunde, Berlin. Ill C 12507 | | Fig 6. Head of a Queen Mother Nigeria, Edo; Court of Benin 18th-19th Century Brass, iron; h. 20.5 inches Lent by Katherine Perls | | Altars dedicated to past lyobas, or queen mothers, like those of past Obas, are furnished with cast brass commemorative heads. These altars are found in the lyoba's palace at Uselu and in the Oba's own palace. Like the altars to the king, the queen mother's altars also contain bells, rattle-staffs, and other types of sculpture, such as altar tableaus and cast brass roosters. The title of queen mother was introduced by the early-sixteenth-century Oba Esigie to honor his mother, Idia, for her help in averting two serious threats to his rule and the integrity of the kingdom (Ben-Amos 1980:24; Nevadomsky 1986:44). Like Idia, the queen mothers are known for their ability to bring their own supernatural powers to the aid of their sons. Queen mother heads are distinguished by a special type of coral-bead crown with a high, forward-pointing peak, an elongated version of an elaborate coiffure known as "chicken's beak," worn by high-ranking Edo women (fig. 19; Ben-Amos 1980: fig. 25). The projection on the queen mother's crown is called ede lyoba, akening it to the spiritually potent ede projection on top of the Oba's crown (Blackmun 1991:60). The right to wear a coral-bead crown is limited to the Oba, the queen mother, and the Ezomo, the Oba's principal war chief, and thus conveys the queen mother's importance in the Benin political hierarchy. An Oba has many wives, and the Qrst one who gives birth to a son, who will succeed his father, will eventually become the lyoba. She is granted the title several years after her son is crowned. Oba Erediauwa has recently named his mother, Aghahowa N'Ovbi Erua, as queen mother; she is the first to hold the title since 1897. The lyoba advises the Oba and is the only woman considered one of the senior Town Chiefs. Like them she is responsible lor administering a portion of the kingdom for the Oba. In her case, ihis is the former village of Uselu, which is now part of Benin City. The queen mother heads can be divided stylistically into two types (Dark 1975). One group resembles the early types of commemorative heads for kings: they have a tight-fitting bead collar under the chin; the facial features are sensitive and relatively naturalistic; and they are extremely thin-walled, delicate castings (fig. 20; von Luschan 1919: pi. 52). A second group of queen mother heads is closer in style to later Oba heads, Dark's types 4 and 5. As seen in cat. nos. 6, 7, and 8, these heads are large, thick-walled, heavy castings. They have a high cylindrical bead collar that comes up to the mouth. They also have a semicircular opening at the top to enable them to support an ivory tusk, probably on a wooden peg placed inside the head. In addition to the collar and the pointed bead crown with bead clusters on each side, the queen mother is shown wearing a beaded headband, which wraps around her forehead and is tied with a bow in the back, a type worn usually by male chiefs in Benin (see fig. 48). As on the heads of Obas, the lower part of the face balloons outward, and the eyes, inlaid with iron irises, are enlarged in an exaggerated, heavily outlined stare. In cat. nos. 6 and 7 the rims around the eyes are carefully incised with regular, narrowly spaced striatioris. Above eacli eye are four raised ikharo, or gender marks. The flanges around the bases of these heads are less ornate than those on the kings' heads. They are decorated with the looped strap motif, and cat. nos. 7 and 8 also have a single elephant-trunk/hand-with-leaves motif at the front. Like the heads of kings, the queen mother heads are dominated by the sheer quantity and extent of their coral-bead regalia, which frames the face at top, bottom, and sides, alters its natural contours, and gives its human elements an extraordinary aspect. On the basis of their similarity to Dark's type 4 and 5 kings' heads, these queen mother heads are dated to the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries. This seems to have been a period when altars to the queen mothers became more elaborate, as indicated by the quantity of these heads (Dark 1975:88—89) and by the creation of oilier forms of sculpture, such as altar tableaus and roosters, to be placed on the altars. Surprisingly, no objects dedicated to the queen mothers have been attributed to the middle period of Benin art, from the mid-sixteenth through the seventeenth century, although several women held the title during that time. From the fantastic book: Royal Art of Benin - The Perls Collection | | Fig. 19. Wives of the Oba wearing "chicken's beak" hairstyle with coral-bead ornaments. Photograph by Joseph Nevadomsky | | Publications and books that are great resources for the art of Benin | | There are 2 issues of the African Arts publications that are almost entirely dedicated to the Benin culture and the articles are amazing (although I haven't read them all) but I have both copies. Click on the blue link to go to the back issue page of African Arts to order these volumes. Vol. 30, Issue 3 - Summer 1997 feature articles Studies of Benin Art and Material Culture, 1897-1997 Joseph Nevadomsky The Great Benin Centenary - Benin City, February 17-23, 1997 Opening Ceremony Address Thorold Masefield Opening Ceremony Address Oba Erediauwa The Dialectics of Definitions:"Massacre" and "Sack" in the History of the Punitive Expedition Ekpo Eyo Aesthetics and Evolution Elazar Barkan Praise Songs to Oba Ovonramwen Early Images from Benin at the National Museum of African Art, Smithsonian Institution Christraud M. Geary Casting Identities in Contemporary Benin City Charles Gore Felix von Luschan and Early German-Language Benin Studies Stefan Eisenhofer Continuity and Change Barbara W. Blackmun departments first word The Great Benin Centenary Joseph Nevadomsky dialogue books The Art of Benin by Paula Girshick Ben-Amos Reviewed by Kathy Curnow Museums and the Community of West Africa Edited by Claude Daniel Ardouin and Emmanuel Arinze Reviewed by Gilbert Amegatcher recent exhibitions Great Benin Reviewed by Susan Picton African Galleries: Reinstallations of the Permanent Collection Reviewed by Marie-Thérèse Brincard Vol. 30, Issue 4 - Autumn 1997 The Benin Centenary, Part 2 Edo Art, Dynastic Myth, and Intellectual Aporia John Picton Images of Benin at the Pitt Rivers Museum Jeremy Coote and Elizabeth Edwards Remembering R. E. Bradbury Charles Gore; Interview by Peter Morton-Williams The Art of Fasting Kathy Curnow Contemporary Art and Artists in Benin City Joseph Nevadomsky Baule Susan Mullin Vogel first word Why? Notes from Asia Michael Harris dialogue books The Kingdom of Benin in West Africa by Heather Millar Reviewed by Dan Ben-Amos Benin Kingdom of West Africa by John Peffer-Engels Edo: The Bini People of the Benin Kingdom by Chukwuma Azuonye Reviewed by Joseph Nevadomsky Höfische Elfenbeinschnitzerei im Reich Benin: Kontinuität oder Kontinuitätspostulät by Stefan Eisenhofer Reviewed by Barbara W. Blackmun Lamidi Olonade Fakeye: A Retrospective Exhibition and Autobiography by Lamidi Olonade Fakeye and Bruce M. Haight Reviewed by Jean M. Borgatti The Culture and Technology of African Iron Production Edited by Peter R. Schmidt< Reviewed by P. L. Shinnie | | click image to see larger version | | Top photo: Interior of a shop filled with contemporary brasscastings. Brasscasters quarter, Igun Street, Benin City, 1995. Photo: Joseph Nevadomsky. Bottom photo: Copying from art books, artists from Igun Street create and artificially patinate reproductions of pre-1897 objects. Benin City, 1995. Photo: JosephNevadomsky. CLICK HERE to go to an article called: Art and science in Benin bronzes African Arts, Spring, 2004 by Joseph Nevadomsky It's an interesting article on the "issues" of Benin bronze objects | | Rand African Art home page Go to the Educational Resources page Benin hip masks page |
