=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Harmony Cobel - Severance Wiki]
Feb 3, 2026 · Harmony Cobel was the Severed Floor manager at Lumon Industries and is now on the run. She used a false identity, Mrs. Selvig, in her interactions with Mark Scout 's outie as his next door neighbor. Mrs. Selvig ostensibly worked at Swab Girl, selling soaps and bath bombs. She also bakes horrifying chamomile and lavender cookies that Mark eats very politely. She is not severed. [1]
URL: https://www.severance.wiki/harmony_cobel

[Severance: Harmony Cobel's Role At Lumon Industries & Mrs. Selvig ...]
Jan 13, 2025 · After a nearly three-year hiatus following the cliffhanger of the Severance season 1 ending, season 2 resumes the stories of Cobel and the other characters following their game-changing developments. Harmony Cobel Is The Severed Floor Manager At Lumon Industries In Severance She Is Mark's Boss
URL: https://screenrant.com/severance-harmony-cobel-lumon-industries-role-selvig-identity-explained/

[Who Is Mrs. Selvig in Severance? Is Selvig Severed?]
Feb 25, 2022 · Who Is Mrs. Selvig in Severance? Mrs. Selvig is introduced in the series premiere episode of ‘Severance.’ She is Mark’s next-door neighbor who calls him constantly as she is confused about the garbage collection system. Actress Patricia Arquette essays the role of Mrs. Selvig in the series. Arquette is a Golden Globe Award and Primetime Emmy Award-winning actress known for her ...
URL: https://thecinemaholic.com/who-is-mrs-selvig-in-severance-is-she-severed/

[Severance (TV series) - Wikipedia]
Patricia Arquette as Harmony Cobel, the manager of the severed floor at Lumon, who outside of work uses the false identity of Mark's next-door neighbor, "Mrs. Selvig". Sarah Bock as Eustice Huang (season 2), the young new Deputy Manager of the Severed floor. [12]
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Severance_%28TV_series%29

[Who are the Main Characters in "Severance"? - Scifi Dimensions]
Jul 18, 2025 · Petey Petey, played by Stephen Root, is Mark’s best friend from before the severance procedure. He is a former Lumon employee who has somehow reversed the severance process and retains memories of both his innie and outie lives. Petey’s brief but crucial role in the series sets the events of the show in motion.
URL: https://www.scifidimensions.com/who-are-the-main-characters-in-severance/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Harmony Cobel - Severance Wiki] ---
Proceed with caution. Wiki Menu Contribute · About · Stats · Tags Categories Stay Updated Get the latest Severance news on the Media Wall. Connect Looking for our Discord link? You won't find it. But the community is still going! Contribute · About · Stats · Tags Get the latest Severance news on the Media Wall. Looking for our Discord link? You won't find it. But the community is still going! | Harmony Cobel | | | Also Known As | Mrs. Selvig, Ms. Cobel, Cobelvig | |---|---| | Portrayed By | Patricia Arquette | | Occupation | Vindication | | Status | Alive | | First Appearance | Good News About Hell | Harmony Cobel was the Severed Floor manager at Lumon Industries and is now on the run. She used a false identity, Mrs. Selvig, in her interactions with Mark Scout's outie as his next door neighbor. Mrs. Selvig ostensibly worked at Swab Girl, selling soaps and bath bombs. She also bakes horrifying chamomile and lavender cookies that Mark eats very politely. She is not severed.[1] A true devotee of the Eagan philosophy (until she was fired by Lumon), Harmony Cobel was raised in Salt's Neck and attended the Myrtle Eagan School for Girls. Her mother is Charlotte Cobel[2] and Harmony was not allowed to leave school even to say goodbye when her mother died. Her academic excellence was more important than allowing her to indulge in woe. Harmony excelled in her studies and graduated high school as valedictorian in the Year of Wiles. She earned many prizes and accolades as a student including Most Observant and Best Use of Mealtime Condiments, as well as the coveted Wintertide Fellowship, which was presented to her by Jame Eagan. Most importantly, she invented the Severance Procedure and attendant chip protocols yet received no credit for this. She was told Kier's knowledge is for all[3] as justification for Lumon stealing her technology. She was described in her yearbook as “a beacon of academic excellence and leadership” and she left “an indelible mark on the Year of Wiles graduating class…she exhibited unwavering commitment to her academic pursuits, consistently achieved top grades and mastering challenging subjects. Beyond the classroom, Harmony actively engaged in extracurricular activities, leading the field hockey team as Captain and acting as President of the Goat Husbandry Club.” She was a positive influence and inspiration to her peers and educators alike, despite indulging in ether frolics as early as the age of 8. Charlotte’s medical bracelet and a coiled hospital breathing tube rested on Harmony’s Kier Shrine in her Baird Creek basement, but now is returned to the ventilator that gave her mother her last breath. Her lifelong devotion to Lumon and Kier Eagan is evident from her basement bedroom decor and possessions, as well as the many prizes and accolades left behind in her childhood home. Harmony drives a white Volkswagen Rabbit and is irresponsible with her trash and recycling bins. The art that hung behind her desk was a tryptych of roiling storm clouds. She has a surviving aunt, Celestine "Sissy" Cobel, with whom she has a contentious relationship. She also has a trauma bonded history with the proprietor of the The Drippy Pot Cafe, Hampton, since childhood, including recreational huffing of ether. When Helly began work on the severed floor, Ms. Cobel has just moved into a new office. It is not known what her previous job was or if she only moved workspaces, but her function appears to be unchanged. After the events at the Helly - A Severed Story gala, her employment with Lumon was brought to an ignominious end. However, she was offered an invitation to spearhead a new brand initiative heading the Severance Advisory Council. She rejected that “promotion” in favor of returning home to Salt's Neck to obtain proof that it was she and not Jame Eagan who invented the Severance Procedure. Harmony has had a tense and adversarial relationship with Natalie Kalen, the PR representative and speaker for The Board at Lumon Industries. Her working relationship with Seth Milchick was generally amiable, but they did not always agree on methodologies. When on the severed floor, she spent an inordinate amount of time monitoring Mark S. and Ms. Casey's interactions. Her manner was always terse and intimidating. You know, my mother was an atheist. She used to say that there was good news and bad news about hell. The good news is, hell is just the product of a morbid human imagination. The bad news is, whatever humans can imagine, they can usually create.Season 1, Episode 1, Good News About Hell (29:22) You know, my mother was a Catholic. She used to say it takes the saints eight hours to bless a sleeping child.Season 1, Episode 1 Good News About Hell (29:22) If you want a hug, go to hell and find your mother.Season 1, Episode 4, The You You Are (25:17) We serve Kier, you child!Season 1, Episode 6, Hide and Seek (54:53) I welcome your contrition.Season 2, Episode 2, Goodbye, Mrs. Selvig (05:56) You don't value me. You fear me.Season 2, Episode 2, Goodbye, Mrs. Selvig (07:23) Harmony Cobel. Well, flip my toboggan.Season 2, Episode 8, Sweet Vitriol (06:04) We were once chums. Old colleagues lift each other up.Season 2, Episode 8, Sweet Vitriol (11:13) You're higher than a bearded vulture.Season 2, Episode 8, Sweet Vitriol (13:56)


--- [Severance: Harmony Cobel's Role At Lumon Industries & Mrs. Selvig ...] ---
No content


--- [Who Is Mrs. Selvig in Severance? Is Selvig Severed?] ---
‘Severance‘ is filled with mysteries surrounding the corporate organization known as Lumon Industries. As Mark Scout of the Macro Data Refining Department begins to peel the cover off these mysteries slowly, viewers get a sense of the true nature of those he is surrounded by. One of the most intriguing people in Mark’s vicinity is Mrs. Selvig, one of the few people Mark interacts with outside work. Therefore, viewers must be curious to learn more about Mrs. Selvig and the shocking twist that connects her to Lumon. In that case, here’s everything you need to know about Mrs. Selving from ‘Severance.’ SPOILERS AHEAD! Who Is Mrs. Selvig in Severance? Mrs. Selvig is introduced in the series premiere episode of ‘Severance.’ She is Mark’s next-door neighbor who calls him constantly as she is confused about the garbage collection system. Actress Patricia Arquette essays the role of Mrs. Selvig in the series. Arquette is a Golden Globe Award and Primetime Emmy Award-winning actress known for her performances in hit shows such as ‘Medium,’ ‘The Act,’ and ‘Boardwalk Empire.’ Some viewers might recognize Arquette as Olivia Evans from ‘Boyhood,’ for which she won the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress. After hearing Mrs. Selvig’s voice for most of the first episode, we meet her in person in the final moments. As it turns out, Mrs. Selvig is none other than mark’s boss at work, Ms. Harmony Cobel. At work, Ms. Cobel promotes Mark to department head after Petey leaves Lumon Industries under mysterious circumstances. Later, Mrs. Selving brings Mark some homemade cookies to apologize for the garbage bn debacle, but in reality, has some sinister ulterior motive. Is Mrs. Selvig Severed? The reveal that Mrs. Selvig is actually Mark’s boss, Ms. Cobel, is a major one as it changes the dynamics between the two characters when they are at work and outside. However, as the narrative progresses, a question is raised over Mrs. Selvig and her true intentions. In the series, it is evident that the employees of Lumon Industries who work on the severed floor have undergone a scientific procedure that separates their personal and work-related memories. Therefore, it is no surprise that Mark does not remember that Mrs. Selvig works with him. The same appears to be true for Mrs. Selvig until the third episode hints otherwise. In the third episode, after mark leaves for work, Mrs. Selvig snoops into his house. She removes a book left at Mark’s doorstep by his brother-in-law. Mrs. Selvig later sneaks into Mark’s basement and goes through his stuff. Shortly afterward, she receives a call which is presumably from her workplace. Mrs. Selvig/Ms. Cobel arrives at her office and has a brief conversation with Mr. Milchick. The duo discusses mark’s life outside work and comments on the book left for Mark. Thus, it is evident from the conversation that Mrs. Selvig/Ms. Cobel is not severed and retains all her memories at all times. It will be interesting to see how this revelation will affect Mark’s upcoming episodes.


--- [Severance (TV series) - Wikipedia] ---
Severance is an American science fiction psychological thriller television series created by Dan Erickson, and executive produced and primarily directed by Ben Stiller. It stars Adam Scott, Zach Cherry, Britt Lower, Tramell Tillman, Jen Tullock, Dichen Lachman, Michael Chernus, John Turturro, Christopher Walken, Patricia Arquette, and Sarah Bock. The series follows employees at Lumon Industries, a biotechnology corporation, that have undergone "severance"—a procedure that splits a person's memories between work and their personal life. This creates two separate identities for employees: the "innie", who has no knowledge of the outside world, and the "outie", who lives their life outside without any knowledge of their job.
Erickson and Stiller first developed Severance in 2015, with the series being greenlit by Apple TV in 2019, with Scott attached. The cast for the first season was rounded out by December 2020, and the cast for the second season was announced in October 2022. Principal photography for the series has taken place in New York, New Jersey and Newfoundland. Its first season aired from February 18 until April 8, 2022, and its second season from January 17 to March 21, 2025. Severance has been renewed for a third season.  In February 2026, it was reported that Apple TV had acquired the intellectual property and all rights to the series from Fifth Season, with its in-house Apple Studios to become the production company for the series starting with the third season.
Severance has received critical acclaim for its cinematography, direction, production design, musical score, story, and performances. It has received numerous accolades, including 41 Primetime Emmy Award nominations, winning for Outstanding Lead Actress in a Drama Series for Lower and Outstanding Supporting Actor in a Drama Series for Tillman. Scott's performance earned him nominations for a Primetime Emmy Award, two Television Critics Association Awards, and a Golden Globe Award, while Stiller and Erickson also received Emmy nominations for directing and writing.


--- [Who are the Main Characters in "Severance"? - Scifi Dimensions] ---
No content
