=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Siri - Wikipedia]
Siri was released as an app for iOS in February 2010. Two months later, Apple acquired it and integrated it into the iPhone 4s at its release on 4 October 2011, removing the separate app from the iOS App Store.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Siri

[How to Set Up and Use "Hey Siri" on iPhone and iPad]
Here's how to set it up. What Is "Hey Siri"? "Hey Siri" is a feature in Apple products that listens for the spoken words "Hey Siri" to bring Siri to attention. The command is a verbal replacement for needing to hold down the home or side button on your iPhone or iPad to call up Siri. Apple first introduced "Hey Siri" in 2014 with iOS 8.
URL: https://www.howtogeek.com/742121/how-to-set-up-and-use-hey-siri-on-iphone-and-ipad/

[What is Siri? | Definition from TechTarget]
Apple introduced the "Hey Siri" feature in September 2014, which allows users to activate the personal assistant by saying the command without needing to press a button on the device.
URL: https://www.techtarget.com/searchmobilecomputing/definition/Siri

[Understanding 'Hey Siri' — how to use it, commands, and more]
Apr 19, 2023 · Apple introduced the ability for users to say "Hey Siri" and provide hands-free voice commands to Siri in 2014 with iOS 8.
URL: https://appleinsider.com/inside/siri/tips/understanding-hey-siri----how-to-use-it-commands-and-more

[This has me hopeful for the future of Siri : r/apple]
WILL be on the front side of the AR Glasses. Will recognize people, things ect. You will finally be able to say " Hey Siri, what this?" jcpb.
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/apple/comments/84pt0n/this_has_me_hopeful_for_the_future_of_siri/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Siri - Wikipedia] ---
Siri (  SEER-ee) is a virtual assistant and chatbot purchased, developed, and popularized by Apple, which is included in the iOS, iPadOS, watchOS, macOS, Apple TV, audioOS, and visionOS operating systems. It uses voice queries, gesture based control, focus-tracking and a natural-language user interface to answer questions, make recommendations, and perform actions by delegating requests to a set of Internet services. With continued use, it adapts to users' individual language usages, searches, and preferences, returning individualized results.
Siri is a spin-off from a project developed by the SRI International Artificial Intelligence Center. Its speech recognition engine was provided by Nuance Communications, and it uses advanced machine learning technologies to function. Its original American, British, and Australian voice actors recorded their respective voices around 2005, unaware of the recordings' eventual usage. Siri was released as an app for iOS in February 2010. Two months later, Apple acquired it and integrated it into the iPhone 4s at its release on 4 October 2011, removing the separate app from the iOS App Store. Siri has since been an integral part of Apple's products, having been adapted into other hardware devices including newer iPhone models, iPad, iPod Touch, Mac, AirPods, Apple TV, HomePod, and Apple Vision Pro.
Siri supports a wide range of user commands, including performing phone actions, checking basic information, scheduling events and reminders, handling device settings, searching the Internet, navigating areas, finding information on entertainment, and being able to engage with iOS-integrated apps. With the release of iOS 10, in 2016, Apple opened up limited third-party access to Siri, including third-party messaging apps, as well as payments, ride-sharing, and Internet calling apps. With the release of iOS 11, Apple updated Siri's voice and added support for follow-up questions, language translation, and additional third-party actions.
iOS 17 and iPadOS 17 enabled users to activate Siri by simply saying "Siri", while the previous command, "Hey Siri", is still supported. 
In 2024, Apple added initial large-language-model functionality to Siri in iOS 18, iPadOS 18, and macOS Sequoia, including ChatGPT integration. In 2025, Apple announced that a broader overhaul of Siri based on Apple Intelligence, intended to enable increased personalization, would be delayed due to technical challenges. In 2026, they released MacOS Tahoe, which also came with Siri support.




--- [How to Set Up and Use "Hey Siri" on iPhone and iPad] ---
No content


--- [What is Siri? | Definition from TechTarget] ---
Siri What is Siri? Siri is Apple's virtual assistant for iOS, macOS, tvOS and watchOS devices that uses voice recognition and is powered by artificial intelligence (AI). Siri responds to users' spoken questions by speaking back to them through the device's speaker and presenting relevant information on the home screen from certain apps, such as Web Search or Calendar. The service also lets users dictate emails and text messages, reads received emails and messages and performs a variety of other tasks. History and development Siri derived from a combination of multiple sources, projects and technologies. The Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA) funded the Cognitive Assistant that Learns and Organizes (CALO) project, aiming to develop a personal assistant with machine learning technologies. SRI International, a nonprofit research institute based in Menlo Park, Calif., took the technologies and framework that the CALO project developed to begin the spin-off project that would eventually lead to Siri's creation. Nuance Communications, a software company based in Burlington, Mass. that began as a spin-off of SRI International, provided the speech recognition technology that made Siri possible. Members of the SRI International team decided to form a new startup company called Siri, Inc. in 2007. SRI researchers Dag Kittlaus and Adam Cheyer served as CEO and vice president of engineering, respectively, while Tom Gruber served as CTO. In 2010, Apple acquired Siri, Inc., which then led to the current incarnation of Siri as a native feature on some iOS devices. The service debuted on the iPhone 4S in 2011; in June 2012, Apple announced it would add Siri to the third-generation iPad with the release of iOS 6 and integrate Siri with third-party apps. Siri is not available on earlier versions of the iPhone or iPad. In June 2016, Apple debuted Siri on macOS Sierra, providing another point of access for Siri. In June 2017, Apple announced its HomePod device, which is controlled by Siri. In June 2024, Apple announced a significant overhaul of Siri at the WWDC 2024 conference: Apple Intelligence, a new personal AI system that enhances Siri's capabilities. Voice of Siri ScanSoft, a software company that merged with Nuance Communications in 2005, hired voiceover artist Susan Bennett that same year when the scheduled artist was absent. Bennett recorded four hours of her voice each day for a month in a home recording studio, and the sentences and phrases were linked together to create Siri's voice. Until a friend emailed her in 2011, Bennett wasn't aware that she had become the voice of Siri. Although Apple never acknowledged that Bennett was the original Siri voice, audio experts at CNN confirmed it. Karen Jacobsen, a voiceover artist known for her work on GPS systems, provided the original Australian female voice. Jon Biggs, a former tech journalist, provided Siri's British male voice. Apple developed a new female voice for iOS 11 with deep learning technology by recording hours of speech from hundreds of candidates. Important features and popular commands Siri can perform a variety of tasks, such as: - Navigate directions, including "What's the traffic like on my way to work?" - Schedule events and reminders, such as "Text Ben 'happy birthday' at midnight on Tuesday" - Search the web, including "Find images of dogs" - Relay information such as "How long does it take water to boil?" - Change settings such as "Increase the screen brightness" or "Take a photo" Users can make requests to Siri in natural language. Apple introduced the "Hey Siri" feature in September 2014, which allows users to activate the personal assistant by saying the command without needing to press a button on the device. The following year, Apple updated the feature to individualize the voice recognition component, which prevented users that do not own the device from accessing Siri. Siri in iOS 11 can perform tasks such as translate languages and handle follow-up questions. Apple also opened up third-party access to expand Siri's functions to task management. With the introduction of Apple Intelligence in 2024 comes a series of updates that provide a new look and new functionality to Siri users. Among the Siri updates are the following: - Visual makeover. With iOS 18 and Apple Intelligence Siri gets a new icon, as a well as glowing light that wraps around the edge of the screen when active. - Conversational context. Siri can maintain context from one request to the next, allowing for more natural interactions. - Typing to Siri. Users will have the ability to type their queries to Siri and switch between text and voice as needed. - In-app actions. Siri can perform more complex tasks within apps, such as editing photos or managing contacts based on on-screen information. - On-screen awareness. Siri can take actions in or across apps, such as extracting text from photos and filling it into web forms. - Text summaries and email writing suggestions. Siri provides text summaries and email writing suggestions powered by Apple Intelligence. How it works Siri's functions live primarily in the cloud, including the main automatic speech recognition and natural language interpretation. A small speech recognizer, however, runs constantly on the local device, listening for the words "Hey Siri." When the speech recognizer detects the phrase, it uses a deep neural network to convert the acoustic pattern of the user's voice into a probability distribution. Then, the "Hey Siri" detector integrates the continuous stream of information from that pattern into separate events to calculate a confidence score that the phrase was indeed "Hey Siri." Siri activates if the score is high enough. When the user speaks a command or request, Siri collects the audio, converts it into a data file and sends it to Apple's servers. The device must be connected to the internet for Siri to function. Once the voice data is in the servers, it goes through a variety of flowcharts formed by a large database of questions and answers. If the flowchart fails to answer the question, Siri rejects the query and responds with the standard phrase: "Would you like to search the web for that?" If the query follows the flowchart successfully, Siri communicates with other apps to perform the function. For example, if the user asks "What are some Thai restaurants near me?" then Siri uses Yelp's database of nearby restaurants to deliver that information to the user. With the addition of Apple Intelligence, Siri will also be able to call out to ChatGPT to get information and answers for users. Criticism Users with strong accents may not be compatible with Siri's voice recognition software. Also, some experts claim that the service often doesn't understand user questions, cannot answer them or delivers useless answers. Those issues are what the Siri update with Apple Intelligence might help to solve. Siri has also faced competition from Amazon, Microsoft and Google with Alexa, Cortana and Assistant, respectively. In the past, experts complained that Siri lacks innovation in comparison to other personal assistants. The addition of Apple Intelligence might change that perception over time.


--- [Understanding 'Hey Siri' — how to use it, commands, and more] ---
Learn everything you need to know about using voice commands via Siri on iPhone, iPad, Mac, and HomePod. Apple introduced the ability for users to say "Hey Siri" and provide hands-free voice commands to Siri in 2014 with iOS 8. It was limited to basic actions and information queries, but the technology has improved dramatically in the last decade. Today, Apple devices are waiting for you to utter the wake words "Hey Siri," or just "Siri," and respond. Sure, accidental activations and poorly executed commands are still common with Apple's voice assistant, but its capabilities are expansive within the available feature set. Apple is notorious for being hands-off in its software. It briefly introduces users to the concept of Siri during new device setup and rarely brings up the assistant again. After that, users are lucky to learn anything else about the voice assistant again. Anyone who's seen the occasional ad or has experience with other voice assistants might realize Siri can tell you a sports score or start playing a song, but that's just barely scratching the surface. How to set up "Siri" or "Hey Siri" Before we dive into what Siri can do, it'll help to make sure the feature is set up in the first place. If you've never used voice commands and are unsure if it is even enabled, check the Settings app. - Open the Settings app - Scroll down and select "Siri & Search" - Select "Listen For" - Choose from the three options: "Siri" or "Hey Siri," just "Hey Siri," or off. The procedure is identical for iPhone, iPad, and Apple Watch and their respective Settings apps. Macs can also listen for "Hey Siri," but only in models released in 2018 or later for MacBooks and in 2020 or later for iMacs. The toggle is in the same location, but this time in System Preferences. The option for "Siri" or "Hey Siri" requires Apple Silicon. HomePod, HomePod mini, and AirPods have "Hey Siri" enabled by default. The HomePod mini, second-generation HomePod, and AirPods Pro 2 can use the "Siri" or "Hey Siri" option. How "Hey Siri" works Apple published a research paper for "Hey Siri" in October 2017 to address privacy concerns. It describes a coprocessor that exists just to listen for the trigger phrase, and only that — all other data that isn't the trigger phrase or the command that follows is thrown out. Neural networks process audio at an incredible rate, and as of iOS 15, users can execute some commands completely offline too. Apple's products are incredibly good at hearing the wake word, sometimes to a fault. If you're in a household with multiple devices that have "Siri" or "Hey Siri" enabled, don't worry. Siri has a few tricks that let it operate without setting off every device listening for the wake word. First, Siri is trained to listen for your voice, even on HomePod. That training data is gathered the first time you program wake words on iPhone and is modified as it is used. That way, when everything works as it should, only your iPhone will respond to your Siri command, not your spouse's. But when you own multiple Apple products, it gets a little more complicated. If you're in a room with an iPhone, iPad, Mac, and HomePod trained on your voice, saying "Siri" or "Hey Siri" might seem like a bad idea. However, every device logged into the same iCloud will perform a quick poll to decide which device was intended for the command. For the most part, the device closest to the user's voice will get the command, like an Apple Watch raised to your mouth. However, HomePod takes the next priority for most commands. When everything is working as it should, the worst that will happen is the wrong device decides to answer. Always remember, if you never want a Mac to take a "Hey Siri" command, turn off the feature. Siri commands and phrases This is a list of the many things you can command Siri, and it is by no means complete. The natural language processing that Siri performs means that many of these requests can be said in many different ways, also. Think of the command you'd like to give Siri before saying the wake words for best results. This can prevent most issues when trying to get Siri to do something since you'll be clear and precise right away. Also, don't pause and wait. Say the wake word and your command all in one go. This also helps prevent errors in processing. - Make phone calls: "Call Mom." - Hang up a call: "Hang up." - Send messages: "Send a message to Steve" or "Ask Dad, where are the keys?" - Read back previous messages: "Read back previous messages." - Get directions: "Get directions home" - Play music: "Play music I like" or "Play 'Georgia' by Vance Joy." - Stop music: "Stop playing" or "Play something else." - Ping nearby devices: "Where is my iPhone." - Set a timer: "Set a timer for 10 minutes" and set multiple timers by naming them, "Set a noodle timer for 8 minutes." - Check on a timer: "How much time is left on the timer?" - Stop an alarm: "Stop" or "Stop the alarm" or add a person's name if their device is alarming and belongs to your Apple Home. - Control HomeKit devices: "Turn on the lights" when commanding a HomePod in the room you'd like to turn the lights on in. Or, provide a zone, "Turn on the lights downstairs." - Set a Reminder: "Remind me of this" for something you're looking at in an app like Safari. Or "Remind me to take out the trash when I get home." - Take a photo with the Camera app: "take a photo" or "take a selfie." - Play media: "Play the next episode of 'Ted Lasso'" or "Start playing 'Prehistoric Planet' in the Living Room." - Ask for information: general queries can be thrown at Siri, and results will vary. "When did 'Cinderella come out?" or "When is the next showing of 'Super Mario Brothers The Movie?'" or "What day does Easter fall on?" or "What's the Redsocks score?" - Create Calendar events: "Create a Calendar event on April 14 for a doctors appointment at 3 p.m." - Calculations and random chance: "What is 4,400 divided by 3?" or "Flip a coin" or "roll a dice" or "roll two dice." - Activate Shazam: "What song is this?" Siri has access to nearly every app you have installed on your iPhone. See how each app interacts with Siri and Spotlight by opening the "Siri & Search" menu in Settings. Discovering the Siri commands that work best for you will take some trial and error. In our experience, despite a nearly infinite number of commands and questions available, we only use a handful daily. Siri also has several Easter eggs that come and go. Giving these commands will result in a unique response from Siri, but engineers don't always keep them active forever. - "Tell me a joke" - "knock knock" - "Tell me a story" - "Tell me a poem" - "Who let the dogs out?" - "May the force be with you" - "What is zero divided by zero?" - "What is your favorite color?" - "What is your favorite song?" - "What is the meaning of life?" - "Supercalifragilisticexpialidocious" - "Blue pill or red pill?" - "Do you obey the three rules of robotics?" - "Can I name you Jarvis?" - "Where can I hide a dead body?" - "Will you be my friend?" - "Why did the chicken cross the road?" - "What is your gender?" or "Are you a boy or a girl?" - "What do you look like?" - "What are you wearing?" or "will you marry me?" - "What does the fox say?" — try multiple times - Asking about Google, Android, or Microsoft will result in Siri saying it's a fan of Apple. - "Sing for me" or "Beatbox" or "Can you rap?" New Easter eggs are being added all the time. Try saying common phrases from movies, books, or pop culture to get unique results. Siri has dozens of commands it can parse without installing a single app. Downloading third-party apps adds more capabilities for Siri, but those will have to be discovered on a per-app basis. Siri Shortcuts Apple has slowly been pushing users and developers alike to embrace Shortcuts. The app provides many tools that let users create complex actions that can be run with the push of a button or a voice command. Apps have multiple options for donating actions and Shortcuts to the app. Once you've familiarized yourself with the app and its capabilities, it opens a new door for device and service control. Adept users can create complex Shortcuts that can be activated by voice. Even if you're not well-versed in building Shortcuts, you can download Shortcuts others have made. Like any software, users should take caution before downloading and using random people's Shortcuts. No need to stress too much, though, as each Shortcut has to ask for permissions before performing most tasks. Learn more about customizing Shortcuts that can be activated by "Siri" or "Hey Siri" with our guide: How to use Siri Shortcuts. Ensuring Siri gets it right Many users get frustrated when a smart assistant doesn't do what they ask. However, this occurs most often when the user doesn't know what the assistant can do or how to phrase commands. Use the list of actions we shared before as a foundation, but take time to experiment and learn new commands. Third-party apps and Shortcuts open the door to a near-infinite number of things Siri can perform. To help Siri along, ensure various aspects of your device and Apple Services are set up properly. Remember, Siri can only be as accurate as the data you've provided. This includes: - Keeping Contacts up to date. - Ensuring your Apple Home has properly labeled devices and rooms. - Making sure Apple Music playlists are named properly. - Ensuring your home and work addresses and other points of interest are updated in Apple Maps and your Contacts card. - Checking which devices have "Hey Siri" enabled to prevent confusion. - Making sure HomeKit scenes and Shortcuts actions have unique names that won't be confused for a basic action. Using "Siri" or "Hey Siri" to control your devices won't always be a perfect experience, but knowing how to keep it from breaking will reduce problems. The best way to ensure a seamless experience with Siri is to speak at a normal volume and pace and maybe have a little patience.


--- [This has me hopeful for the future of Siri : r/apple] ---
You've been blocked by network security. To continue, log in to your Reddit account or use your developer token If you think you've been blocked by mistake, file a ticket below and we'll look into it. Log in File a ticket
