=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Ruth Wilson Gilmore - Wikipedia]
In 2021, Gilmore was elected as a Member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. [18][19] In 2023, Gilmore was honored with a mural painted by artist and filmmaker, Jess X. Snow and local community members on the outside of the Possible Futures bookstore in New Haven, Connecticut.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ruth_Wilson_Gilmore

[CUNY Professor Ruth Wilson Gilmore Elected to Prestigious ...]
May 12, 2021 · CUNY News CUNY Professor Ruth Wilson Gilmore Elected to Prestigious American Academy of Arts and Sciences May 12, 2021
URL: https://www.cuny.edu/news/cuny-professor-ruth-wilson-gilmore-elected-to-prestigious-american-academy-of-arts-and-sciences/

[Ruth Wilson Gilmore | American Academy of Arts and Sciences]
Jan 22, 2026 · Ruth Wilson Gilmore is professor of Earth & Environmental Sciences, and American Studies, and director of the Center for Place, Culture, and Politics at the Graduate Center, City University of New York.
URL: https://www.amacad.org/person/ruth-wilson-gilmore

[Ruth Wilson Gilmore - Center for the Humanities]
May 9, 2022 · Along with Angela Y. Davis and Mike Davis, Gilmore was awarded the 2020 Lannan Foundation Lifetime Cultural Freedom Prize. In 2021 she was elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.
URL: https://centerforthehumanities.org/person/ruth-wilson-gilmore-1/

[Ruth Wilson Gilmore Explained]
Apr 2, 2025 · In 1960, Wilson attended a private school in New Haven as one of its few working-class students and the first, and mostly only, African American student. In 1968, she enrolled at Swarthmore College in Pennsylvania, where she became involved in campus activism.
URL: https://everything.explained.today/Ruth_Wilson_Gilmore/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Ruth Wilson Gilmore - Wikipedia] ---
Ruth Wilson Gilmore (born April 2, 1950) is a prison abolitionist and prison scholar. She is the Director of the Center for Place, Culture, and Politics and professor of geography in Earth and Environmental Sciences at the Graduate Center of the City University of New York. She has made important contributions to carceral geography, the "study of the interrelationships across space, institutions and political economy that shape and define modern incarceration". She received the 2020 Lifetime Achievement Award from the American Association of Geographers.




--- [CUNY Professor Ruth Wilson Gilmore Elected to Prestigious ...] ---
A Professor of Earth and Environmental Sciences, She is Recognized for Her Focus on Deeply Embedded Structural Inequalities and ‘Carceral Geography’ Professor Ruth Wilson Gilmore of CUNY’s Graduate Center has been elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, one of the country’s oldest and most prestigious honorary societies, in recognition of her eminence as a scholar and activist in challenging racism and other deeply rooted economic, political and social injustices. “Professor Gilmore has magnified an array of deeply embedded societal injustices and the forces that perpetuate them, and we are proud that she has gained this superlative recognition for her transformative work,” said Chancellor Félix V. Matos Rodríguez. “Professor Gilmore has influenced legions of scholars and activists while serving as a cherished mentor to CUNY students and alumni. She exemplifies our University’s mission at its uppermost level. The City University of New York sends its ardent congratulations on her distinguished and most-deserved honor.” Gilmore, a professor of earth and environmental sciences, has focused her work on ending structural inequalities that contribute to the vulnerability and premature deaths of millions throughout the world. She works in solidarity with unions, grassroots organizations, indigenous movements, environmental justice groups and urban and rural people throughout the world. She is known for originating the concept of “carceral geography,” which involves examining the relationships among landscape, natural resources, infrastructure and political economy in terms of surplus, crisis and the policing and imprisonment of individuals. “I’m delighted the USA’s most venerable society of artists and scholars recognizes the urgency and vitality of scholarship involved in fights for economic, social, spatial and racial justice,” said Professor Gilmore. “CUNY should play a major role in such struggles, given where and who we are. I trust the honor will encourage my institution, and the City and State of New York, to expand and deepen public education for the public good.” The widely published professor wrote the prize-winning book Golden Gulag: Prisons, Surplus, Crisis, and Opposition in Globalizing California. At the Graduate Center, she teaches in the Earth and Environmental Sciences Ph.D. program and directs the Center for Place, Culture and Politics. She also serves on the executive committee of the Institute for Research on the African Diaspora in the Americas and the Caribbean. The most recent of her many honors include The Association of American Geographers Lifetime Achievement Award (2020) and the 2020 Lannan Foundation Lifetime Cultural Freedom Prize, along with Angela Y. Davis and Mike Davis. “The Graduate Center congratulates Professor Gilmore on her election to the American Academy of Art and Sciences,” said Graduate Center President Robin L. Garrell. “Through her innovative scholarship and activism, she has challenged societal norms, catalyzing grassroots initiatives to address persistent inequality and injustice. She is also a treasured mentor and adviser for our students and alumni, exemplifying our mission to enhance the public good through outstanding scholarship and education.” Founded in 1780, the American Academy of Arts and Sciences honors individuals who discover and advance knowledge and apply this to societal struggles. Academy members are leaders in the arts and humanities, social policy, education, global affairs, and science and technology. Included among them: Margaret Mead, Jonas Salk (City College ’34), Barbara McClintock, John F. Kennedy, Martin Luther King Jr., Aaron Copland, Martha Graham, John Hope Franklin, Georgia O’Keeffe, I.M. Pei and Toni Morrison. Gilmore is joined this year by 251 other new members including Joy Connolly, former interim president of The Graduate Center; Oprah Winfrey; legal scholar and civil rights advocate Kimberlé Crenshaw; playwright, screenwriter and actor Suzan-Lori Parks; neurosurgeon and CNN medical correspondent Sanjay Gupta; playwright David Henry Hwang; and journalist Kara Swisher. “The past year has been replete with evidence of how things can get worse; this is an opportunity to illuminate the importance of art, ideas, knowledge, and leadership that can make a better world,” said David Oxtoby, President of the American Academy, said in announcing the 2021 members. Other Graduate Center faculty members to join the Academy have included Presidential Professor Miranda Fricker (Philosophy, 2020); Distinguished Professor Richard Alba (Sociology, 2017); Distinguished Professor Charles Mills (Philosophy, 2017) Distinguished Professor Nancy Foner (GC/Hunter, Sociology, 2013); Distinguished Professor Ervand Abrahamian (GC/Baruch, History, 2010); Distinguished Professor Emerita Mary Ann Caws (Comparative Literature, English, and French, 2009); Distinguished Professor David Harvey (Anthropology and Earth and Environmental Sciences, 2007); Distinguished Professor Ursula Oppens (GC/Brooklyn, Music, 1999); Distinguished Professor Emeritus Leo Treitler (Music, 1994); Professor and Einstein Chair Dennis Sullivan (Mathematics,1991); and Distinguished Professor Saul Kripke (Mathematics, 1978). The City University of New York is the nation’s largest urban public university, a transformative engine of social mobility that is a critical component of the lifeblood of New York City. Founded in 1847 as the nation’s first free public institution of higher education, CUNY today has seven community colleges, 11 senior colleges and seven graduate or professional institutions spread across New York City’s five boroughs, serving 500,000 students of all ages and awarding 55,000 degrees each year. CUNY’s mix of quality and affordability propels almost six times as many low-income students into the middle class and beyond as all the Ivy League colleges combined. More than 80 percent of the University’s graduates stay in New York, contributing to all aspects of the city’s economic, civic and cultural life and diversifying the city’s workforce in every sector. CUNY’s graduates and faculty have received many prestigious honors, including 13 Nobel Prizes and 26 MacArthur “Genius” Grants. The University’s historic mission continues to this day: provide a first-rate public education to all students, regardless of means or background. ###


--- [Ruth Wilson Gilmore | American Academy of Arts and Sciences] ---
Ruth Wilson Gilmore Ruth Wilson Gilmore is professor of Earth & Environmental Sciences, and American Studies, and director of the Center for Place, Culture, and Politics at the Graduate Center, City University of New York. She also serves on the Executive Committee of the Institute for Research on the African Diaspora in the Americas and the Caribbean. Co-founder of many grassroots organizations including the California Prison Moratorium Project, Critical Resistance, and the Central California Environmental Justice Network, Gilmore is author of the prize-winning Golden Gulag: Prisons, Surplus, Crisis, and Opposition in Globalizing California (UC Press). Recent publications include “Beyond Bratton” (Policing the Planet, Camp and Heatherton, eds., Verso); “Abolition Geography and the Problem of Innocence” (Futures of Black Radicalism, Lubin and Johnson, eds., Verso); a foreword to Bobby M. Wilson’s Birmingham classic America’s Johannesburg (U Georgia Press); and a foreword to Cedric J. Robinson on Racial Capitalism, Black Internationalism, and Cultures of Resistance (HLT Quan, ed., Pluto). Forthcoming projects include Change Everything: Racial Capitalism and the Case for Abolition (Haymarket); Abolition Geography (Verso); plus a collection of Stuart Hall's writing on race and difference (co-edited with Paul Gilroy, Duke UP). Gilmore has lectured in Africa, Asia, Europe, and North America. In April 2019 Rachel Kushner profiled her in The New York Times Magazine. Honors include the American Studies Association Angela Y. Davis Award for Public Scholarship (2012); the Association of American Geographers Harold Rose Award for Anti-Racist Research and Practice (2014); the SUNY-Purchase College Eugene V. Grant Distinguished Scholar Prize for Social and Environmental Justice (2015-16); the American Studies Association Richard A Yarborough Mentorship Award (2017); The Association of American Geographers Lifetime Achievement Award (2020); and most recently (along with Angela Y. Davis and Mike Davis) she was named winner of 2020 Lannan Foundation Lifetime Cultural Freedom Prize.


--- [Ruth Wilson Gilmore - Center for the Humanities] ---
Ruth Wilson Gilmore Ruth Wilson Gilmore is Professor of Earth & Environmental Sciences and Director of the Center for Place, Culture, and Politics at the City University of New York Graduate Center. She has co-founded many grassroots organizations including the California Prison Moratorium Project, Critical Resistance, and the Central California Environmental Justice Network. Gilmore is author of the prize-winning Golden Gulag: Prisons, Surplus, Crisis, and Opposition in Globalizing California (UC Press); and Abolition Geography: Essays Toward Liberation (Verso). Change Everything is forthcoming (Haymarket). She and Paul Gilroy co-edited Stuart Hall: Selected Writings on Race and Difference (Duke). Along with Angela Y. Davis and Mike Davis, Gilmore was awarded the 2020 Lannan Foundation Lifetime Cultural Freedom Prize. In 2021 she was elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.


--- [Ruth Wilson Gilmore Explained] ---
| Ruth Wilson Gilmore | | | Birth Date: | 2 April 1950[1] | | Birth Place: | New Haven, Connecticut[2] | | Occupation: | scholar, professor | | Discipline: | Geographer | | Alma Mater: | Rutgers University (Ph.D., 1998) | | Thesis Title: | From military Keynesianism to post-Keynesian militarism: Finance capital, land, labor, and opposition in the rising California prison state[3] | | Thesis Year: | 1998 | | Doctoral Advisor: | Neil Smith | | Main Interests: | Prison-industrial complex, Race | | Workplaces: | Graduate Center, CUNY, University of Southern California | Ruth Wilson Gilmore (born April 2, 1950) is an abolitionist and prison scholar. She is the Director of the Center for Place, Culture, and Politics and professor of geography in Earth and Environmental Sciences at The City University of New York.[4] Ruth Wilson was born on April 2, 1950 in New Haven, Connecticut. Her father, Courtland Seymour Wilson, was a machinist and active in the union having been raised himself by a family active in the workers’ union at Yale University. In 1960, she attended a private school in New Haven as the first, and mostly only, African American student. In 1968, she attended Swarthmore College where she became involved in campus politics and met Angela Davis' younger sister, Fania. Gilmore's cousin, John Huggins was a founding member of the Black Panthers' Southern California chapter and was murdered while she was at Swarthmore in 1969. Later that year, she enrolled in Yale where she obtained a degree in drama.[5] Gilmore earned her Ph.D. from Rutgers University in 1998 in economic geography and social theory, inspired by the work of Neil Smith.[6] After finishing her Ph.D. she was hired as an assistant professor at Berkeley and began working on her concept of carceral geography. Carceral geography examines the relationships between landscape, natural resources, political economy, infrastructure and the policing, jailing, caging and controlling of populations. She is a cofounder of many social justice organizations, including California Prison Moratorium Project.[7] In 1998, she was one of the cofounders of Critical Resistance along with Angela Davis. In 2003, she cofounded Californians United for a Responsible Budget (CURB) to fight jail and prison construction and currently serves on its board. Gilmore has been a leading scholar and speaker on topics including prisons, racial capitalism, oppositional movements, state-making and more. She is the author of the book Golden Gulag which was awarded the Lora Romero First Book Publication Prize for the best book in American Studies by the American Studies Association in 2008.[8] Other writings of hers have been published in such venues as Race & Class, The Professional Geographer, Social Justice, Global Lockdown: Race, Gender, and the Prison Industrial Complex, and the critical anthology The Revolution Will Not Be Funded: Beyond the Non-Profit Industrial Complex, which was edited by the Incite! collective. In 2011, Gilmore was the keynote speaker at the National Women's Studies Association annual conference in Atlanta, GA.[9] In 2012, the American Studies Association awarded her the first Angela Y. Davis prize for Public Scholarship that "recognizes scholars who have applied or used their scholarship for the "public good." This includes work that explicitly aims to educate the public, influence policies, or in other ways seeks to address inequalities in imaginative, practical, and applicable forms." [10] In 2014, Gilmore received the Harold M. Rose Award for Anti-Racism Research and Practice from the Association of American Geographers.[11] In 2017, Gilmore earned the American Studies Association Richard A. Yarborough Award. This award honors scholars who demonstrate an excellence in teaching and mentoring. [12]
