=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Natasha C. Merle - Wikipedia]
From 2013 to 2015, Merle was a litigation associate and civil rights fellow at Fried, Frank, Harris, Shriver & Jacobson in New York City. From 2016 to 2021, she served as assistant counsel and then senior counsel for the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund ("LDF").
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Natasha_C._Merle

[Women's History Month Profile: U.S. District Court Judge Natasha Merle]
The first entry in this series is U.S. District Court Judge Natasha Merle. Judge Natasha Merle was nom­i­nat­ed to the bench by President Biden in 2021 and became his 100th con­firmed judi­cial appoint­ment. She has served on the United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York since August 2023.
URL: https://deathpenaltyinfo.org/womens-history-month-profile-u-s-district-court-judge-natasha-merle

[Judge Natasha C. Merle Joins the Bench - Federal Bar Council Quarterly]
LDF Impact Litigation From 2012-13, Judge Merle returned to New York to complete a second clerkship, this time for District Judge John Gleeson on the Eastern District of New York, the same courthouse where she is now a federal judge. From 2013-15, Judge Merle worked as an associate and civil rights fellow at Fried, Frank, Harris, Shriver & Jacobson LLP, where she handled complex commercial ...
URL: https://federalbarcouncilquarterly.org/judge-natasha-c-merle-joins-the-bench/

[Natasha Merle - Ballotpedia]
2023-present: Judge, United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York · 2016-2023: NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund, Inc. · 2013-2015: ...
URL: https://ballotpedia.org/Natasha_Merle

[Gillibrand Statement On Confirmation Of Natasha Merle To Serve On U.S. ...]
Jun 21, 2023 · From 2013 to 2015, she was a litigation associate and NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund Fellow at Fried, Frank, Harris, Shriver & ...Missing: City? | Show results with:City?
URL: https://www.gillibrand.senate.gov/news/press/release/gillibrand-statement-on-confirmation-of-natasha-merle-to-serve-on-u-s-district-court-for-the-eastern-district-of-new-york/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Natasha C. Merle - Wikipedia] ---
Natasha Clarise Merle (born 1983) is an American lawyer from New York who serves as a United States district judge of the United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York.


--- [Women's History Month Profile: U.S. District Court Judge Natasha Merle] ---
This month, DPIC celebrates Women’s History Month with weekly profiles of notable women whose work was significant in the modern death penalty era. The first entry in this series is U.S. District Court Judge Natasha Merle. Judge Natasha Merle was nominated to the bench by President Biden in 2021 and became his 100th confirmed judicial appointment. She has served on the United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York since August 2023. Judge Merle graduated with a B.A. from the University of Texas, Austin with honors and received her law degree from New York University, cum laude. Before her appointment to the bench, Judge Merle dedicated most of her legal career to advocating for civil rights in the criminal justice system and protecting voter rights. Judge Merle’s career began as a law clerk for Judge Robert L. Carter of the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York from 2008 to 2009. From 2009 to 2011, she was a staff attorney at the Gulf Region Advocacy Center (GRACE). Judge Merle then became an assistant federal public defender in Arizona at the Office of the Federal Public Defender. She also served as a law clerk for Judge John Gleeson of the United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York from 2012 to 2013. From 2013 to 2015, Judge Merle was a litigation associate and civil rights fellow at Fried, Frank, Harris, Shriver & Jacobson. In 2016, Judge Merle joined the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund (LDF) as assistant counsel, ultimately becoming the Deputy Director of Litigation in 2021. At LDF, she was a part of the legal team representing Texas death row prisoner Duane Buck. During Mr. Buck’s trial, his counsel negligently proffered expert testimony from a psychologist who claimed that Mr. Buck was more likely to commit subsequent violent criminal acts because he was Black. The jury sentenced Mr. Buck to death. Despite the Texas Attorney General’s confession of error regarding the expert’s testimony in other death penalty cases, Mr. Buck’s repeated appeals were denied by Texas courts. After the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit denied Mr. Buck’s request, Judge Merle co-authored the briefs that were essential to Mr. Buck’s successful appeal to the United States Supreme Court. The Supreme Court ruled 6 – 2 in favor of Mr. Buck. The majority opinion authored by Chief Justice John Roberts characterized the expert’s testimony alleging that race predicts future dangerousness as toxic. “[W]hen a jury hears expert testimony that expressly makes a defendant’s race directly pertinent on the question of life or death, the impact of that evidence cannot be measured simply by how much air time it received at trial or how many pages it occupies in the record. Some toxins can be deadly in small doses,” he wrote. “[O]ur law punishes people for what they do, not who they are.” Mr. Buck was later resentenced to life in prison. Judge Merle was also lead counsel in the 2017 case NAACP LDF v. Trump. LDF, along with voter rights and racial equality organizations, argued that President Trump’s Presidential Advisory Commission on Election Integrity, created by executive order, was formed to discriminate against voters of color. Judge Merle also led LDF’s Prepared to Vote campaign, a non-partisan campaign that educates voters, specifically voters of color, to protect their right to vote and prepare them for election day. Natasha Merle, Alliance for Justice, n.d., Accessed 26 Feb. 2024. Natasha Merle, NAACP Legal Defense Fund, n.d., Accessed 26 Feb. 2024. Buck v. Davis, Oyez, n.d., Accessed 26 Feb. 2024. Buck v. Davis, NAACP Legal Defense Fund, n.d., Accessed 26 Feb. 2024. Buck v. Davis, Justia, 2017, Accessed 26 Feb. 2024. LDF V. Trump, NAACP Legal Defense Fund, n.d., Accessed 26 Feb. 2024. Prepared to Vote, NAACP Legal Defense Fund, n.d., Accessed 26 Feb. 2024. Judge Natasha C. Merle, United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York, n.d., Accessed 26 Feb. 2024.


--- [Judge Natasha C. Merle Joins the Bench - Federal Bar Council Quarterly] ---
On August 21, 2023, Natasha C. Merle was sworn in as a U.S. District Judge for the Eastern District of New York. Judge Merle recently spoke with the Federal Bar Council Quarterly about her career and her journey to the bench. Judge Merle grew up in Houston, Texas, with her two older siblings. Her mother is from St. Kitts and her father is from Jamaica, New York, with Puerto Rican and Panamanian roots. Her parents met in St. Croix and, due to her father’s military status, eventually relocated to Maine, where Judge Merle was born. Soon thereafter, Judge Merle’s family settled in Houston. Judge Merle studied Spanish and government at the University of Texas at Austin, graduating with cum laude honors in 2005. She then earned her law degree from New York University in 2008. Judge Merle notes that she did not have a predetermined path to law school. In fact, she had not even met a lawyer until she attended law school. It was the encouragement of college professors and Judge Merle’s desire to help people that led her to pursue a legal career. “I saw the criminal justice system’s impact on my family and friends and the lack of resources in my community,” she reflected. While she could have served as a teacher or a social worker, she began a career as a legal advocate based on the belief that “the legal system, if used for good, could help a wide array of people from different communities.” Advocating for Civil Rights After graduating from law school, Judge Merle served as a law clerk from 2008-09 to the late Southern District of New York Judge Robert L. Carter. After her clerkship, Judge Merle concentrated her practice on death penalty work for over four years. From 2009-11, she was a staff attorney and Equal Justice Works Fellow at the Gulf Region Advocacy Center, where she provided capital defense to indigent defendants facing the death penalty. Thereafter, from 2011-12, she served as an assistant federal public defender in the Capital Habeas Unit at the Federal Public Defender for the District of Arizona. Judge Merle recounts a particular client visit early in her career that brought to the forefront the myriad of systemic issues impacting marginalized communities. During this visit with one of her clients who had been sentenced to death, Judge Merle realized that not only did many of her clients know each other before incarceration, but they came from the same communities and had the same stories. “It became clear to me that there was a larger systemic issue.” This observation prompted Judge Merle to turn next to impact litigation in her legal career. LDF Impact Litigation From 2012-13, Judge Merle returned to New York to complete a second clerkship, this time for District Judge John Gleeson on the Eastern District of New York, the same courthouse where she is now a federal judge. From 2013-15, Judge Merle worked as an associate and civil rights fellow at Fried, Frank, Harris, Shriver & Jacobson LLP, where she handled complex commercial litigation. She also worked on numerous pro bono matters, which afforded her extensive litigation experiences, including the opportunity to argue in administrative proceedings and New York state courts, and take depositions. Judge Merle encourages junior attorneys to similarly pursue pro bono work to gain courtroom advocacy experience and skills. She also believes it is important for junior attorneys to surround themselves with mentors who believe in them and are invested in their success starting early in their legal careers. In 2016, Judge Merle joined the NAACP Legal Defense and Education Fund (LDF), where she handled death penalty, education and voting rights litigation. She rose up the ranks, holding the positions of Fellow from 2016-18; assistant counsel in 2018; senior counsel from 2018-21; and finally, deputy director of litigation from 2021 until her appointment to the federal bench in 2023. Judge Merle also served as an adjunct professor of clinical law and lecturer in law at New York University School of Law and Columbia Law School, respectively. Judge Merle observes that one of the most significant LDF matters she worked on was the representation of Duane Buck. Buck had been sentenced to death in Texas after his own attorney presented expert testimony that he was more likely to be a future danger because he is Black. LDF challenged this error, which made Buck’s race directly pertinent on the question of life or death. In Buck v. Davis, 580 U.S. 100 (2017), the U.S. Supreme Court held, inter alia, that Buck received inadequate assistance of counsel when his attorney introduced evidence that he was more likely to be a future danger because of his race, and that it was reasonably probable that without this testimony he may not have been sentenced to death. In an opinion that has left a lasting impact on Judge Merle, the Supreme Court noted that dispensing punishment based in part on an immutable characteristic “is a disturbing departure from a basic premise of our criminal justice system: Our law punishes people for what they do, not who they are.” Id. at 123. On the Bench Judge Merle joins the Eastern District court after over 15 years as an advocate. She speaks positively about her transition to the bench. She praises her staff and the collegiality of her judicial colleagues, who have provided helpful guidance. She is also grateful for her varied experience in all stages of criminal and civil litigation – including the initial pleading and discovery stages, motion practice, trials, and appeals throughout federal courts, including the Supreme Court – that prepared her for this new role. Among other lessons gained during her now one-year tenure on the bench, Judge Merle has learned that it is okay, and indeed preferable, to take the time and ask all the questions necessary to “get [the answer] right” before rendering decisions. For Judge Merle, the bottom line is to administer justice impartially and treat litigants with kindness, respect and dignity. Different Paths to the Bench It is believed that Judge Merle is the first former public defender appointed to the Eastern District in 30 years. She also joins the ranks of an esteemed group of LDF attorneys who later served as judges, including the late Supreme Court Justice Thurgood Marshall; the late Judge Carter of the Southern District of New York, who worked alongside Justice Marshall at LDF and for whom Judge Merle clerked; and the late Southern District of New York Judge Constance Baker Motley, the first Black woman to serve as a federal judge. Following Justice Marshall, Judge Merle is only the second attorney to be appointed directly from LDF to the federal bench, a recognition she describes as humbling. “To even have my name mentioned in the same sentence as Justice Marshall is overwhelming,” she reflected. It is also important because “it shows young attorneys that there are different paths to the bench, if that is a goal of theirs. There is not a single path to becoming a judge.” Judge Natasha C. Merle


--- [Natasha Merle - Ballotpedia] ---
No content


--- [Gillibrand Statement On Confirmation Of Natasha Merle To Serve On U.S. ...] ---
View remarks on Senate floor here Today, U.S. Senator Kirsten Gillibrand applauded the confirmation of Natasha Merle to serve as a judge for the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of New York. Senator Gillibrand recommended Ms. Merle to President Biden in 2021 and she was nominated in 2022. “I am honored and grateful that the Senate has voted to confirm Ms. Merle to serve on the United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York,” said Senator Gillibrand. “Ms. Merle is an extraordinary and dedicated attorney who devoted her career to advancing equal justice. Our legal system will be well served by her sharp legal mind, exceptional understanding of federal law and demonstrated commitment to civil rights.” Natasha C. Merle has served as Deputy Director of Litigation at the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund, Inc. since 2021. She previously served as Assistant Counsel and then Senior Counsel for the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund, Inc. from 2016 to 2021. From 2013 to 2015, she was a litigation associate and NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund Fellow at Fried, Frank, Harris, Shriver & Jacobson LLP in New York. From 2011 to 2012, Ms. Merle was an Assistant Federal Public Defender at the Office of the Federal Public Defender, and from 2009 to 2011, Ms. Merle was a staff attorney at the Gulf Region Advocacy Center. She served as a law clerk for Judge John Gleeson on the United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York from 2012 to 2013. She also served as a law clerk for Judge Robert L. Carter on the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York from 2008 to 2009. Ms. Merle received her J.D., cum laude, from the New York University School of Law in 2008 and her B.A., with honors, from the University of Texas at Austin in 2005.
