=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[US Wins Most Equestrian Medals at 2004 Olympic Games]
Sep 1, 2004 · The United States won more equestrian medals than any other team at the 2004 Olympic Games in Athens with a total of 5 medals from six possible opportunities.
URL: https://www.usef.org/media/press-releases/117_us-wins-most-equestrian-medals-at--olympic-games

[Athens 2004 Olympic Results - Gold, Silver, Bronze Medallists]
Official list of medal winners and results by sport at the Athens 2004 Olympic Games. Celebrate medal-winning moments by the world's top athletes.
URL: https://www.olympics.com/en/olympic-games/athens-2004/results

[Olympic Equestrian history: Records, past winners, best ...]
Germany claimed three of the six equestrian gold medals: team eventing and team dressage, as well as team member Hinrich Romeike 's individual gold medal in eventing.
URL: https://www.nbcolympics.com/news/equestrian-101-olympic-history-records-and-results

[List of Olympic medalists in equestrian events - Wikipedia]
Germany leads the country medalist rankings with 25 gold medals (52 overall), [note 2] followed by Sweden with 17 (43 overall) and France with 14 (37 overall). [1] Canadian rider Ian Millar holds the record for the most Olympic equestrian appearances and matches the record for athletes in any sport, having competed in ten Olympics as of 2012. [15]
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Olympic_medalists_in_equestrian_events

[Equestrian Jumping at the 2004 Summer Olympics - Olympedia]
Aug 27, 2004 · In the team event, Germany seemed to be the gold medalists, but Ludger Beerbaum ’s horse Goldfever 3 had a doping positive. Beerbaum was disqualified and with his scores deleted, Germany dropped down to a bronze medal, with the United States moving up to gold.
URL: https://www.olympedia.org/editions/26/sports/EJP


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [US Wins Most Equestrian Medals at 2004 Olympic Games] ---
The United States won more equestrian medals than any other team at the 2004 Olympic Games in Athens with a total of 5 medals from six possible opportunities. For the second time in US Olympic Equestrian history, and the first time in an Olympic games outside of the United States, the US Equestrian Team won team medals in each discipline, Eventing, Dressage and Show Jumping. This was achieved only once before in the 1996 Atlanta Games. 2004 was also the third time the US has won 5 Olympic medals, the previous being at the 1984 Los Angeles Games and the 1932 Los Angeles Games. The five medals won in Athens are the first time the US has achieved this outside of our country, in fact, outside of Los Angeles. The only medal opportunity missed was in Individual Dressage, and Debbie McDonald came in fourth giving up an individual bronze medal by just 1.014 point. “I think this speaks to the commitment made to our long-term high performance plan and the focus and dedication of our athletes, our staff, the owners who so generously lent their horses to the team, and the many contributors to the USET Foundation,” said John Long, Chief Executive Officer of the United States Equestrian Federation. “Although we’re very proud, we aren’t going to rest on these laurels. We must keep improving our program with today’s athletes and develop young riders for the future. We have to look far, far down the road.” US Team members were as follows: Dressage/Team Bronze Robert Dover, Lebanon, NJ and Wellington, FL and FBW Kennedy Debbie McDonald, Hailey, Idaho and Brentina Guenter Seidel, Del Mar, CA and Aragon Lisa Wilcox, Cloppenburg, Germany and Relevant Show Jumping/Team Silver Chris Kappler, Pittstown, NJ and Royal Kaliber/ Individual Bronze Peter Wylde, Maastricht, The Netherlands and Fein Cera Beezie Madden, Cazenovia, NY and Authentic McLain Ward, Brewster, NY and Sapphire Eventing/Team Bronze Darren Chiacchia, Springville, NY and Windfall 2 Julie Burns Richards, Newnan, GA and Jacob Two Two Kimberly Severson, Keene, VA and Winsome Adante/ Individual Silver Amy Tryon, Duvall, WA and Poggio II John Williams, Middleburg, VA and Carrick. END US Wins Most Equestrian Medals at 2004 Olympic Games by gaillardm | 9/1/2004 Related Topics Breed: Andalusian / Lusitano


--- [Athens 2004 Olympic Results - Gold, Silver, Bronze Medallists] ---
IOC Milano Cortina 2026 LA 2028 Brisbane 2032 Museum Shop Airbnb Olympic Refuge Foundation English Olympic Games Athletes Sports News Olympic Channel Let's Move Olympic Games Athens 2004 Overview Highlights & Replays Results Athletes Stories Brand Medal Design Mascot Torch Athens 2004 Results Medal Table See the list of teams and medals won by each NOC. See table Sports Olympic Games


--- [Olympic Equestrian history: Records, past winners, best ...] ---
Olympic Equestrian Results by Year Tokyo, 2020 Germany defended its team dressage title with an emphatic victory in the first equestrian event of the Tokyo Games. For Isabell Werth, this marked her sixth Olympic gold, officially giving her a gold medal in four different decades. Werth broke her own record, brining her Olympic medal tally to 12 with a silver in individual dressage. Her German teammate Jessica von Bredow-Werndl topped the leaderboard to capture the individual title and complete a golden dressage sweep at her first Olympics. A U.S. team anchored by Olympic newcomer Sabine Schut-Kery, who is originally from Germany, took second overall in its best team dressage finish since 1948. Steffen Peters, who also hails from Germany, became the oldest U.S. Olympic medalist at age 56 and was joined by his World Equestrian Games silver medal teammate Adrienne Lyle. German Julia Krajewski became the first woman to win individual gold in eventing, an event that barred women from Olympic competition until the first time the Games were held in Tokyo back in 1964. This was her second Olympic medal after winning silver in team eventing at the Rio Games. Great Britain won its first team eventing title since 1972, breaking a decades-long gold medal drought in the event. In individual jumping, Ben Maher of Great Britain soared to gold — his second Olympic title in his fourth-straight appearance. In team jumping, Sweden won its first gold medal since 1924. The United States took the silver. Rio, 2016 Germany continued its equestrian dominance during the Rio Olympics, capturing the gold in team dressage and individual eventing, the silver in individual dressage and team eventing and the bronze in team jumping. Michael Jung took home the gold in individual eventing for the second consecutive Olympics, defending his title from 2012 in London. For the United States, Phillip Dutton claimed the bronze in individual eventing, while the U.S. also captured silver in team jumping and bronze in team dressage. London, 2012 Great Britain stole the show on home soil, earning three of six gold medals. In her Olympic debut, Charlotte Dujardin won double gold in team and individual dressage. The London favorite broke the record for the highest Olympic dressage score when she earned 83.874% in the team Grand Prix. Great Britain also took gold in team jumping, its first medal in the event since the 1984 Games. It was a disappointing showing for the Americans who, for the first time since the 1956 Olympics when they did not participate, left the Games empty-handed. The two-time Olympic team show jumping champions tied for sixth. Beijing, 2008 The United States won team gold in jumping in dramatic fashion in Beijing. At the end of the final round, Canada and the United States were tied, leading to a jump-off. The U.S. came through in the clutch, riding three clean rounds in the jump-off to secure the gold medal. American Beezie Madden also claimed bronze in individual jumping, with Canada's Eric Lamaze taking the gold medal. Germany claimed three of the six equestrian gold medals: team eventing and team dressage, as well as team member Hinrich Romeike's individual gold medal in eventing. Isabell Werth won silver in individual dressage and Heike Kemmer claimed bronze in the same event to give Germany a total of five equestrian medals. Athens, 2004 After a silver debut in Sydney, Leslie Law of Great Britain captured his first gold medal in individual eventing. Four years earlier, Law was a key member of Great Britain's eventing team that won the silver medal. Law had the second-best score on the team, which was crucial after teammate Ian Stark withdrew following the cross-country phase, meaning the three remaining riders' scores all counted in the final standings. Law was selected to compete at the 1996 Atlanta Games, but his horse, New Flavour, went lame on arrival. Led by defending gold medalists Ludger Beerbaum, and Otto Becker, Germany earned its third consecutive Olympic team show jumping title, clinching gold after only three rides in the four-ride final. A flawless ride by Beezie Madden earned the Americans silver while Sweden took bronze. Two horses were injured in early rounds. The Argentine horse Who Knows Lilly and the French horse Dileme de Cephe both injured tendons and were treated at a local veterinary hospital. Sydney, 2000 American David O'Connor, a 38-year-old who claimed silver (1996) and bronze (2000) in team eventing competitions, became the first American gold medalist in individual eventing since Edmund "Tad" Coffin in 1976. Germany captured its fifth consecutive Olympic title in team dressage, and sixth in as many attempts dating back to 1976 (West Germany boycotted in 1980). Isabell Werth, who led all riders with a score of 1908 points, earned her fourth career gold. The Dutch team finished runner-up for the third consecutive Games. The Americans rallied for third, when Christine Traurig, the final rider in the competition, tallied 1746 points - just 17 points more than she needed. Atlanta, 1996 At the 1996 Games, the host United States was the only country to win a medal in all three team events. Overcoming the Georgia heat - with huge misting fans and extra horse trainers on hand for the endurance leg - the Americans claimed silver in eventing. The U.S. also added silver in team jumping and bronze in the team dressage. Barcelona, 1992 There was individual parity in Barcelona with seven equestrian riders claiming two medals apiece, but Germany once again dominated with seven medals. Seoul, 1988 The West Germans won all three team competitions, marking the first time since 1936 that a nation turned that hat trick in a non-boycotted Olympics. In team dressage, 52-year-old Reiner Klimke, participating in his sixth Olympics for West Germany, became the most decorated equestrian rider in Olympic history when he claimed his eighth gold medal. Los Angeles, 1984 Twenty years after American Lana duPont became the first woman to compete in eventing in 1964, compatriot Karen Stives claimed the silver to become the first woman to earn a medal in the event. Moscow 1980 The U.S.-led boycott of the Moscow Games prompted alternate competitions for Western riders. The jumping competition was held in Rotterdam, Holland; eventing was contested in Fountainbleau, France; and dressage was held in Goodwood, Great Britain. In the official Olympic equestrian competition, the Soviet Union won eight medals, more than half of its all-time total in the sport (15). Montreal, 1976 West Germany's Alwin Schockemohle, a 39-year-old factory worker, was the first rider to complete the Olympic individual jumping event without a fault since 1928. Great Britain's Princess Anne competed in Montreal's individual eventing competition. She fell during the endurance phase but remounted and completed the course, finishing 24th. Munich, 1972 At the 1972 Games, West Germany's Liselott Linsenhoff became the first woman to win an individual Olympic gold medal in equestrian when she captured the individual dressage crown. Women made up 21 of the 33 riders competing in the event. Mexico City, 1968 Parity was the theme for equestrian in Mexico City. Five athletes tied for the individual medal lead with two medals apiece. West Germany and Great Britain also tied for the most team equestrian medals with four apiece. Tokyo, 1964 Germany claimed six medals in equestrian, leading all countries. Those included team gold in jumping and dressage. The United States managed one equestrian medal, a team silver in the three day event. Rome, 1960 Despite breaking his collarbone and suffering from a concussion in a fall during the endurance test, Australia's Bill Roycroft checked out of the hospital in order to compete in the final jumping phase of the team eventing competition. His attendance ensured Australia would win the gold medal. Roycroft's accident was not the only one in eventing - two horses were killed on the dangerous endurance course. Melbourne, 1956 Strict quarantine laws made taking horses to Melbourne in November impractical, so the 1956 Olympic equestrian events were competed in Stockholm in June, separate from the rest of the competition. Host Sweden performed well, winning individual titles in eventing (Petrus Kastenman) and dressage (Henri Saint Cyr), and also taking a second consecutive gold in team dressage. Helsinki, 1952 As the final competitors in Helsinki's team jumping competition, Harry Llewellyn and his horse, Foxhunter, clinched a British comeback to win gold. Foxhunter was given credit for the victory and became a national hero. It is rumored the horse could sign his name, and people sent him autograph requests and fan mail. After he died, Foxhunter's skeleton was preserved in the Royal College of Veterinary Surgeons. Women competed for the first time in Olympic equestrian in 1952. After suffering a polio attack in 1944 at age 23, Denmark's Lis Hartel began a grueling program to regain the use of her limbs. Eight years later in Helsinki, Hartel captured the silver medal in individual dressage, becoming the first woman to win an Olympic equestrian medal. Paralyzed below the knees and walking with a crutch, Hartel was helped by gold medalist Henri Saint Cyr of Sweden in getting onto the medal stand, creating one of the more touching scenes of the Games. London, 1948 On a difficult jumping course, only three of the 14 teams were able to finish the competition intact, giving Mexico the gold medal, Spain the silver and host Great Britain the bronze. Berlin, 1936 Host Germany won all six gold medals, marking the only time one country won every equestrian event. Lt. Konrad von Wangenheim's heroic efforts in the team eventing competition made the sweep possible. Von Wangenheim was thrown off his horse in the cross-country event and broke his collarbone. He was able to finish the course to prevent Germany from being disqualified. In the jumping competition the next day, von Wangenheim was again thrown. The German was able to remount and finish the course, helping his team take the gold medal. Notably, Austria's Arthur von Pongracz competed at age 72. Los Angeles, 1932 Japan's Lt. Takeichi Nishi won Asia's first and only equestrian medal when he claimed the gold in the individual jumping competition. A member of the Japanese Army, he served at Iwo Jima during World War II. When American soldiers heard Nichi is on the island they tried to meet him, but they were too late. Realizing that Iwo Jima was going to fall, the Japanese gold medalist joined in a mass suicide. Amsterdam, 1928 The Dutch took advantage of being on their home soil, leading all countries with four medals in equestrian. The Netherlands won team gold in the three day event Paris, 1924 Sloan Doak became the first American to win an individual medal in equestrian, claiming bronze in the three day event. Austria's Arthur von Pongracz also competed in the equestrian field for the first time at the remarkable age of 60. He would go on to compete again in 1928 and 1936. Antwerp, 1920 Much like 1912, Sweden dominated, claiming nine medals, including gold in team jumping and the three day event. Stockholm, 1912 Sweden led the way with six medals but it was France's Jacques Cariou who won the most medals: Gold in individual jumping, silver in team jumping and bronze in the individual three day event. The United States won its first-ever equestrian medal in Stockholm, claiming team bronze in the three day event. Paris, 1900 Equestrian became an Olympic event at the 1900 Paris Games with the individual jumping competition. In 1912, team jumping, individual dressage and eventing (team, individual) were added. Team dressage was added in 1928 to round out the six events that are competed today. Frequently Asked Questions Was equestrian an ancient Olympic sport? Equestrian was part of the ancient Olympic Games and included events such as horseback racing and chariot racing, which were introduced to the Games in 680 BC. What was the first Olympic equestrian event? Equestrian events in the modern Olympics were first held at the 1900 Paris Games, although it featured several different disciplines from what we see today. There were four different equestrian disciplines: jumping (which is still competed at the Games), high jump, long jump, and mail coach. Who was the first female equestrian Olympian? Four women competed at the 1952 Olympics in Helsinki, which marked the first time women were allowed to compete in Olympic dressage. One of the most well-known athletes is Lisa Hartel of Denmark, who won a silver medal.


--- [List of Olympic medalists in equestrian events - Wikipedia] ---
Equestrian sports are among those contested at the Summer Olympic Games. Equine events began at the Olympics in 1900, when competitions in polo (considered by the International Olympic Committee (IOC) to be a separate sport from the other equestrian events), vaulting, four-in-hand driving, mail coach driving, mixed hacks and hunters and three types of jumping (high jump, long jump and show-jumping) were held. Most of these events were later discontinued, although equestrian events have continued through the 2016 Summer Olympics, and now include team and individual dressage, three-day eventing and show-jumping. Competitors in the modern pentathlon event also have to complete an equestrian show-jumping course, but this is not part of the equestrian events.
Modern-day Olympic equestrian events are rooted in cavalry skills and classical horsemanship, and through 1948, competition was restricted to active-duty officers on military horses. Only after 1952, as mechanization of warfare reduced the number of military riders, were civilian riders allowed to compete. Equestrian is the only Olympic sport in which animals compete with humans, and is one of four sports in which the genders compete against each other, the others being some sailing divisions, mixed doubles division in tennis and the mixed doubles division of badminton. The rules for Olympic equestrian competition are set by the Fédération Équestre Internationale, the international governing body for equestrian sports.
In two instances, the equestrian portion of the Olympics has been held in a different location from the rest of the games. The first was during the 1956 Summer Olympics in Melbourne, Australia when, due to Australian quarantine laws, the equestrian portion was held in Stockholm, Sweden. At the next IOC meeting, it was decided to hold a special Equestrian Olympic Games several months before the actual Olympics, complete with its own opening and closing ceremonies. This meant that Switzerland, which had officially boycotted the 1956 Games because of the Soviet Union's recent invasion of Hungary, still brought home a medal because of its participation in the equestrian portion several months earlier. The second instance was during the 2008 Summer Olympics, when the equestrian events were held in Hong Kong rather than Beijing. This decision was made when, in 2005, international veterinary groups refused to certify the main Olympic city as free of equine diseases. This would have resulted in horses leaving Beijing after the games and having to go through lengthy quarantine processes before being allowed to re-enter their home countries. Hong Kong also had the benefit of having better facilities, including a top equine hospital and one of only a few equine drug-testing labs in the world.
The Summer Olympics have included 2,129 equestrian participants, including 1,751 men and 378 women, from 69 countries., of which 564 won a medal. As of the 2008 Olympics, 395 medals have been awarded to 31 NOCs. The oldest rider was 72-year-old Arthur von Pongracz of Austria at the 1936 Summer Olympics, while the youngest was 16-year-old Luiza Almeida of Brazil at the 2008 Summer Olympics. The leading medalist is Isabell Werth of Germany (10, 6 gold), followed by  Anky van Grunsven of the Netherlands (9, 3 gold) and Reiner Klimke of Germany (8, 6 gold). Germany leads the country medalist rankings with 25 gold medals (52 overall), followed by Sweden with 17 (43 overall) and France with 14 (37 overall). Canadian rider Ian Millar holds the record for the most Olympic equestrian appearances and matches the record for athletes in any sport, having competed in ten Olympics as of 2012.


--- [Equestrian Jumping at the 2004 Summer Olympics - Olympedia] ---
| Dates | 22 – 27 August 2004 | |---|---| | Medal Events | 2 | | Venues | Olympiako Kentro Ippasias Markopoulou, Markopoulo | Jumping competition at the 2004 Olympics took place at the newly built Markopoulo Olympic Equestrian Centre on the outskirts of Athina, a venue that could hold between 8,000 and 15,000 spectators depending on the event being held. Qualification for the Games was earned by performances at the World Equestrian Games and continental championships and by the FEI world rankings. The equestrian competitions at the 2004 Athina Olympics provided many contentious moments, as of the six events, only in the two dressage events did the original champions get to keep their gold medals. A mixture of positive dope tests and rulings from the Court of Arbitration of Sport (CAS) meant that the final results for a number of events were not ratified until well after the Games had ended. Individual jumping and the Grand Prix de Nations were held at the 2004 Olympics, but they were conducted as separate competitions. The individual jumping’s first two qualifying phases started the jumping, followed by the Grand Prix de Nations, and the final round of jumping was contested on the final day of equestrianism in Athina. The events were won by Brazil’s Rodrigo Pessoa and the United States’ team. Individually, Ireland’s Cian O’Connor was thought to be the winner, but his horse Waterford Crystal had a positive doping test, and O’Connor was disqualified with Pessoa moving up to the gold medal position. In the team event, Germany seemed to be the gold medalists, but Ludger Beerbaum’s horse Goldfever 3 had a doping positive. Beerbaum was disqualified and with his scores deleted, Germany dropped down to a bronze medal, with the United States moving up to gold. | Event | Status | Date | Participants | NOCs | |---|---|---|---|---| | Individual, Open | Olympic | 22 – 27 August 2004 | 77 | 27 | | Team, Open | Olympic | 24 August 2004 | 64 | 16 | | 77 (65/12) | 27 (27/9) | | Event | Gold | Silver | Bronze | ||| |---|---|---|---|---|---|---| | Individual, Open | Rodrigo Pessoa | BRA | Chris Kappler | USA | Marco Kutscher | GER | | Team, Open | United States | USA | Sweden | SWE | Germany | GER | | NOC | Gold | Silver | Bronze | Total | | |---|---|---|---|---|---| | United States | USA | 1 | 1 | 0 | 2 | | Brazil | BRA | 1 | 0 | 0 | 1 | | Sweden | SWE | 0 | 1 | 0 | 1 | | Germany | GER | 0 | 0 | 2 | 2 |
