=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

['Glorifying rioters': BJP, NC face off over Martyrs' Day tribute; Jallianwala ...]
Jul 13, 2025 · NEW DELHI: The BJP on Sunday accused Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Omar Abdullah of glorifying rioters and rewriting history after he compared the July 13, 1931, killings in Srinagar to the Jallianwala Bagh massacre.
URL: https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/india/glorifying-rioters-bjp-nc-face-off-over-martyrs-day-tribute-jallianwala-bagh-comparison-sparks-row/articleshow/122421683.cms

[Explained: What is 'Martyrs' Day' in Kashmir that Omar Abdullah ...]
Jul 14, 2025 · Jammu and Kashmir Chief Minister Omar Abdullah on 14 July scaled over the boundary wall of the Martyrs' Graveyard in Srinagar to offer prayers after he was allegedly stopped by the security...
URL: https://www.livemint.com/politics/news/explained-what-is-july-13-martyrs-day-why-has-it-triggered-a-political-storm-in-jammu-and-kashmir-11752475264571.html

[Kashmir Martyrs' Day - Wikipedia]
Sheikh Abdullah compared the day with the Jallianwala Bagh Massacre. [16] Chitralekha Zutshi however emphasized the "multi-casualty of the incident" and that the incident was "an outcome of the socio economic and socio political crisis in Kashmir".
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kashmir_Martyrs%27_Day

[What's 'Martyrs' Day,' which Omar Abdullah calls Kashmir's 'Jallianwala ...]
Jul 14, 2025 · Comparing the July 13 massacre to the Jallianwala Bagh massacre, Abdullah said the people "who laid down their lives did so against the British. Kashmir was being ruled under the British...
URL: https://www.newsbytesapp.com/news/politics/what-is-july-13-martyrs-day-significance-in-jk/story

[J&K Assembly erupts over opposition leader's remarks on Martyr's Day ...]
The Legislative Assembly witnessed uproar on Wednesday after Leader of the Opposition and senior BJP leader Sunil Sharma referred to the July 13 martyrs as "traitors." During the discussion on the Motion of Thanks to the Lieutenant Governor's address, Peoples Democratic Party leader Waheed-ur-Rehman Parra urged the government to reinstate the public holiday for Martyrs' Day on July 13 ...
URL: https://www.theweek.in/news/india/2025/03/05/jandk-assembly-erupts-over-opposition-leaders-remarks-on-martyrs-day-holiday.html


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- ['Glorifying rioters': BJP, NC face off over Martyrs' Day tribute; Jallianwala ...] ---
NEW DELHI: The BJP on Sunday accused Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Omar Abdullah of glorifying rioters and rewriting history after he compared the July 13, 1931, killings in Srinagar to the Jallianwala Bagh massacre. Every year, July 13 is observed by many in J&K as Martyrs' Day to remember the 22 people shot dead by the Dogra army outside Srinagar’s central jail. However, the day was removed from the list of public holidays by the Lieutenant Governor-led administration in 2020 after the region's reorganisation in 2019. In a post on X, Abdullah had said, “13th July massacre is our Jallianwala Bagh. The people who laid down their lives did so against the British. What a shame that true heroes who fought British rule are today projected as villains only because they were Muslims.” The BJP criticised the comparison sharply with BJP national general secretary and J&K in-charge Tarun Chugh saying, “That was colonial brutality against unarmed civilians. July 13 was a communal mob trying to destroy order. Don’t twist facts.” Chugh also claimed that the event was being used to whitewash violence and blamed Abdullah for ignoring the 1990 forced exodus of Kashmiri Pandits. He accused the National Conference of glorifying Abdul Qadeer, calling him a British agent who incited the mob in 1931. “This is not martyrdom. This is political fraud,” Chugh said. He added that under Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s leadership, the BJP would continue to tell history as it happene and would work towards the justice and return of displaced Kashmiri Pandits. J&K deputy chief minister Surinder Choudhary responded by accusing the BJP of using communal politics. “They are misleading the public. Talking against Kashmir gives them political benefit in Jammu,” he said. The political tension came after several leaders claimed they were placed under house arrest on Saturday to prevent them from visiting the graves of the 1931 victims. The Srinagar administration had officially denied permission to political groups to gather at the Naqshband Sahib Martyrs' Graveyard. Abdullah called the move “blatantly undemocratic” and said that locking elected representatives in their homes and sealing graveyards was an attack on democracy. “We will not forget their sacrifices,” he said. PDP chief Mehbooba Mufti said the mistrust between Delhi and Kashmiris will truly end only when India accepted Kashmiri "martyrs" as their own.


--- [Explained: What is 'Martyrs' Day' in Kashmir that Omar Abdullah ...] ---
Jammu and Kashmir Chief Minister Omar Abdullah on 14 July scaled over the boundary wall of the Martyrs' Graveyard in Srinagar to offer prayers after he was allegedly stopped by the security forces. Abdullah said that he did not inform anyone before coming to the graveyard as he was put under ‘house arrest’ yesterday, on July 13. “We came here and recited the Fatiha. They forget that these graves will always remain here. They stopped us on 13 July, but for how long can they continue to do so? We will come here whenever we want and remember the martyrs,” Abdullah said. Prominent valley-based leaders from ruling and opposition parties were not allowed on Sunday to leave their houses to prevent them from visiting the graveyard of 1931 martyrs in Srinagar. The detentions, which were not officially confirmed by police, were widely reported by leaders who posted videos and pictures showing their gates locked by security personnel to stop them from going to the Naqshband Sahib graveyard near Nowhatta in downtown Srinagar to pay tributes to the ‘martyrs’. “13th July massacre is our Jallianwala Bagh. The people who laid down their lives did so against the British. Kashmir was being ruled under the British Paramountcy. What a shame that true heroes who fought against British rule in all its forms are today projected as villains only because they were Muslims. We may be denied the opportunity to visit their graves today, but we will not forget their sacrifices,” Abdullah said in a post on Sunday. Leader of Opposition (LoP) in Jammu and Kashmir Assembly, Sunil Sharma, dubbed the slain protesters as ‘traitors’ and said the ruling party was trying to indulge in ‘provocative politics’ and revive a separatist sentiment which was long buried following abrogation of Article 370 in 2019. “We consider them as traitors, as I have made it clear on the floor of the assembly,” the BJP leader said. In the past few days, 13 July, ‘Martyrs’ Day,’ has led to a political row in Jammu and Kashmir. What is the controversy about? The row goes back to the 2019 abrogation of Article 370 of Jammu and Kashmir by the Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led Union government. Prior to scrapping the erstwhile state's special status, 13 July used to be an official holiday in Jammu and Kashmir. The day was marked to commemorate the sacrifice of 22 people who led an uprising against the ‘autocratic’ rule of Maharaja Hari Singh in 1931, which eventually forced the Maharaja to hold the first assembly elections in the history of Jammu and Kashmir. It was a rare occasion on which both mainstream politicians and separatists were on the same page. While the government would officially commemorate the day, declaring it a holiday, the separatists would call a shutdown on the day to protest against their killing On the day, mainstream political leaders used to visit the “Martyrs graveyard” in Naqshband Sahab area of Srinagar to pay homage to the Kashmiris who fell to the bullets of the forces during the protest. While the holiday was scrapped in 2019, the LG administration declared Maharaja Hari Singh's birth anniversary on 23 September a public holiday in 2022. Jammu and Kashmir got its first elected government post-abrogation of Article 370 in 2024. Since coming to power, the ruling National Conference has been vowing to restore the official holiday on 13 July. In fact, Valley’s main political parties resolved to visit the ‘Martyrs’ Cemetery’ on 13 July to pay their tributes. The BJP opposed any official commemoration. Srinagar Police issued a public advisory and posted on its handle on X on Saturday that the “District Administration Srinagar has denied permission to all applicants intending to proceed towards Khawaja Bazar, Nowhatta on 13 July 2025 (Sunday)”. The district magistrate also rejected the ruling National Conference's plea seeking permission for NC president Farooq Abdullah and other senior functionaries to visit the graveyard. On 13 July, Sunday, Jammu and Kashmir Police put several leaders across the political divide under house detention to prevent them from visiting the cemetery. In 1931, a series of incidents led to discontent against the Dogra rulers of Kashmir. In June 1931, Abdul Qadeer Khan gave a fiery speech against the Dogras and asked the people to rise against them. Khan was a cook for a British Army officer who was on vacation in Kashmir, according to many accounts. Khan was charged by the Dogra regime for sedition. And in July 1931, as the trial began, a large gathering of Kashmiri Muslims assembled outside the court of the Sessions’ judge in Srinagar. Eventually, the trial was shifted to Srinagar Central Jail. On 13 July, about 4,000 to 5,000 people assembled outside the jail to witness the trial. The crowd wanted to enter the premises, but were stopped. And it was during this protest that the Dogra police opened fire, killing 22 Kashmiri Muslims and injuring many others. There are conflicting versions on what led to the firing. While some say that the protestors tried to break the jail gates and pelted stones, others say the protestors were just shouting slogans outside the jail when the then Srinagar deputy commissioner arrived at the scene. A version also says that a local Muslim stood up to call for the noon prayers (Azaan). He was fired at by the police. The police then opened fire on the protestors, killing 22. The slain protestors were buried in the premises of the shrine of the 17th-century Sufi saint Khwaja Moinuddin Hadi Naqshbandi, in old Srinagar city. Sheikh Mohammad Abdullah, then a top leader of the Muslim Conference, later went on to head the National Conference and announced that 13 July would “henceforth be observed as Martyrs’ Day”. Sheikh Abdullah is Chief Minister Omar Abdullah's grandfather. Gulam Jeelani is Political Desk Editor at LiveMint with over 15 years of experience covering national and international politics. He holds a Master's ...Read More Catch all the Business News, Politics news,Breaking NewsEvents andLatest News Updates on Live Mint. Download TheMint News App to get Daily Market Updates.


--- [Kashmir Martyrs' Day - Wikipedia] ---
Kashmir Martyrs' Day (Urdu: یومِ شہداءِ کشمیر  Transliteration. Youm-e-Shuhada-e-Kashmir) , (Kashmiri: کٲشِرؠ شَہیٖدَن ہُینٛد دۄہ Transliteration: Keashir Shaheendan Hyund Doah) or Kashmir Day, was an official state holiday observed in Kashmir in remembrance of 21 Muslims killed on 13 July 1931 by Dogra forces of the princely state of Jammu and Kashmir in British India.
On that day, Kashmiri Muslims were offering prayers outside the Srinagar Central Jail, where Abdul Qadeer, who had called on Kashmiris to rise against the rule of the Hari Singh. As the crowd grew restless and the Islamic call to prayer was started, the Dogra army opened fire, killing the person giving the Azan. Following this, another person continues giving the Azan, and was also killed. In total  23 were killed in attempts to finish the Azan. The crowds buried the bodies of those killed by the state forces in the graveyard attached to the Shrine of Khwaja Bahawuddin Naqshbandi (Ziyarat Naqshband Sahab) in Srinagar, which has since come to be known as Mazar-e-Shuhada or the Martyrs' Graveyard.
The day was removed as an official holiday of Jammu and Kashmir by the Government of India in December 2019. However, the Government of Pakistan still marks the day.


--- [What's 'Martyrs' Day,' which Omar Abdullah calls Kashmir's 'Jallianwala ...] ---
What's 'Martyrs' Day,' which Omar Abdullah calls Kashmir's 'Jallianwala Bagh' What's the story The commemoration of July 13, known as "Martyrs' Day," has sparked a political controversy in Jammu and Kashmir. The day was once an official holiday to honor the martyrs of 1931. On July 13, 1931, thousands of Kashmiris protested outside Srinagar's central jail in support of Abdul Qadar, who was charged with sedition by the Dogra ruler Maharaja Hari Singh for calling for the burning of the palace. The protests led to the deaths of 22 people—now revered as martyrs. Political shift Article 370 abrogation and the holiday's status The controversy surrounding July 13 intensified after the abrogation of Article 370 in 2019 by the Narendra Modi-led Union government. The abrogation revoked Jammu and Kashmir's special status, and since then, July 13 has not been an official holiday. It was removed from the gazetted holidays list in 2020. However, local political parties have continued to observe the day unofficially. Detentions and denials Leaders detained ahead of Martyrs' Day This year, several political leaders were detained to prevent them from visiting the martyrs' graveyard in Srinagar. The detentions were not officially confirmed by police but were widely reported by the leaders themselves. Jammu and Kashmir Chief Minister Omar Abdullah was among those who faced restrictions on their movements. Abdullah condemned these restrictions as "blatantly undemocratic," alleging homes were locked from outside and police deployed as jailers. Abdullah 'True heroes projected as villains' Comparing the July 13 massacre to the Jallianwala Bagh massacre, Abdullah said the people "who laid down their lives did so against the British. Kashmir was being ruled under the British Paramountcy." "What a shame that true heroes who fought against British rule in all its forms are today projected as villains only because they were Muslims. We may be denied the opportunity to visit their graves today, but we will not forget their sacrifices," Abdullah said on Sunday. Contrasting views BJP calls slain protesters 'traitors' On the contrary, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Sunil Sharma called the slain protesters "traitors" and accused the ruling party of trying to revive separatist sentiments. He said, "We consider them as traitors, as I have made it clear on the floor of the assembly." "National Conference is trying to indulge in provocative politics in the name of these traitors, terrorists, separatists and so-called political prisoners....They are having a misconception but this will never happen again," he told reporters. Restoration pledge NC promises to restore holiday The National Conference, which came to power in 2024, had promised to restore July 13 as an official holiday, which it has been unable to do. July 13 and December 5, the birth anniversary of NC founder Sheikh Muhammad Abdullah, were dropped from the list of holidays in January 2020. Instead, the UT now observes Hari Singh's birth anniversary as a public holiday.


--- [J&K Assembly erupts over opposition leader's remarks on Martyr's Day ...] ---
The Legislative Assembly witnessed uproar on Wednesday after Leader of the Opposition and senior BJP leader Sunil Sharma referred to the July 13 martyrs as “traitors.” During the discussion on the Motion of Thanks to the Lieutenant Governor’s address, Peoples Democratic Party leader Waheed-ur-Rehman Parra urged the government to reinstate the public holiday for Martyrs’ Day on July 13. After he finished his speech, Sharma strongly opposed the demand. “They were not martyrs but traitors,” Sharma said. His remarks sparked uproar from both the Treasury Bench members and opposition parties from Kashmir. Several members demanded Sharma retract his remarks. Jammu: BJP MLAs staged a walkout in Jammu and Kashmir Assembly, protesting the Speaker’s bias and PDP’s remarks on Martyrs' Day — IANS (@ians_india) March 5, 2025 BJP MLA and LoP in Jammu and Kashmir Assembly, Sunil Sharma says, "During today's Governor's address, there was a heated debate when a member of the… pic.twitter.com/xCCFSz5R9C MLA Bandipore Nizamuddin Bhat called Sharma's remarks “humiliating and divisive” and demanding they be removed from the official record. As tensions rose, Speaker Abdul Rahim Rather intervened and ordered that Sharma’s remarks be removed from the Assembly’s proceedings. The BJP leaders staged a walkout against the Speaker’s decision. Later, Peoples Conference MLA Sajad Gani Lone urged the assembly to pass a resolution reinstating public holidays for both Martyrs’ Day and the birth anniversary of National Conference founder Sheikh Muhammad Abdullah. The Martyrs’ Day is commemorated in Kashmir to remember the 22 men who were killed on July 13, 1930, by Dogra forces outside Srinagar jail during a protest against the Dogra ruler. They were buried in the graveyard attached to the Shrine of Khwaja Bahawuddin Naqshband in Srinagar, which has since come to be known as Mazar-e-Shuhada or the Martyrs' Graveyard. After 1947, July 13 was an official day with political leader visiting graveyard to pay their respects. However, the day was removed as an official holiday of Jammu and Kashmir by the Centre after the abrogation of Article 370 along with December 5, the birth day of NC founder Sheikh Muhammad Abdullah.
