=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Grete Stern]
Stern first traveled to Argentina in the company of her new husband, Horacio Coppola in 1935. The newlyweds mounted an exhibition in Buenos Aires at Sur ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Grete_Stern

[What happened to Harrison Ford’s ex wife Melissa Mathison ...]
1 day ago · Per Variety, Mathison majored in political science from UC Berkeley before pausing to work as an assistant to Francis Ford Coppola on The Godfather, Part II, pausing studies. Her father, Richard Mathison, was a journalist at the L.A. Times and later Newsweek.
URL: https://www.primetimer.com/news/what-happened-to-harrison-ford-s-ex-wife-melissa-mathison-all-about-star-s-ex-wives-and-children-following-actor-s-award-win

[Grete Stern]
Grete Stern and Horacio Coppola were married in 1935 and traveled to Argentina, Coppola's native country. In October 1935, shortly after arriving in Buenos ...
URL: https://jwa.org/encyclopedia/article/stern-grete

[Who Is Harrison Ford's Second Wife? Exploring The Legacy Of ...]
5 hours ago · Who Is Harrison Ford's Second Wife? Exploring The Legacy Of Late Screenwriter Melissa Mathison Harrison Ford was married to Melissa Mathison from 1983 to 2004. Have a look at the successful career of Melissa as a screenwriter over the years.
URL: https://www.bollywoodshaadis.com/articles/who-is-harrison-fords-second-wife-75736

[Grete Stern, Horacio Coppola, Ellen Auerbach, and Elisabeth Hase]
Ellen Auerbach and Elisabeth Hase. Grete Stern and Horacio Coppola shared eight years of marriage, photography, and a dream. MoMA calls their exhibition "From ...
URL: https://www.haberarts.com/sterncop.htm


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Grete Stern] ---
Grete Stern (9 May 1904 – 24 December 1999) was a German-Argentine photographer. Between April 1930 and March 1933, she studied at the Bauhaus. With her husband Horacio Coppola, she helped modernize the visual arts in Argentina, and presented the first exhibition of modern photographic art in Buenos Aires, in 1935.




--- [What happened to Harrison Ford’s ex wife Melissa Mathison ...] ---
403 ERROR The request could not be satisfied. Request blocked. We can't connect to the server for this app or website at this time. There might be too much traffic or a configuration error. Try again later, or contact the app or website owner. If you provide content to customers through CloudFront, you can find steps to troubleshoot and help prevent this error by reviewing the CloudFront documentation. Generated by cloudfront (CloudFront) Request ID: HSym5ZDhPfHAIey0oK0rgvZKnlrqNdPg891szRSaLs3OkXjTGW3Upw==


--- [Grete Stern] ---
Grete Stern Grete Stern, who started her career in the European avant-garde of the late 1920s, produced her major body of work in Argentina, where her modern style placed her among the founders of Argentina’s modern photography. The modernist sensibility Stern developed in bohemian Berlin and at the legendary Bauhaus School shook up the staid approach to photography in Argentina. In 1943 Stern presented her first solo exhibition of portraits in Buenos Aires. Her work showed an unconventional approach to photography: advertisement collages and studies with crystals, objects, and still-lifes. Between 1935 and 1981 she worked as a teacher, photographer, and graphic designer, adding an important series of photomontages, reproductions of artwork, and portraits. Stern is remembered for the avant-garde spirit that characterized her work. In 1935, two months after arriving in Argentina, Grete Stern and her husband Horacio Coppola presented what the magazine Sur called “the first serious exhibition of photographic art in Buenos Aires,” which comprised work produced in Germany and London between 1929 and 1935: portraits, compositions, advertising photographs, and landscapes. Her work showed an unconventional approach to photography: advertisement collages and studies with crystals, objects and still-lifes. Even the most accepted subjects at the time, such as portraits and landscapes, were done in unconventional ways: perfect definition, wide chromatic spectrum, flat lighting, simple poses, and untouched negatives. Between 1935 and 1981 she continued with this work in Argentina, adding an important series of photomontages, reproductions of art work and portraits. Stern brought with her from Germany a modernist sensibility, developed in bohemian Berlin and at the legendary Bauhaus School, that shook up the staid approach to photography in Argentina at that time and established her as one of the founders of Argentine modern photography. Early Life and Family Grete Stern was born in Elberfeld, near Wuppertal, Germany, on May 9, 1904. She was the first child of Frida Hochberger and Louis Stern, who died in 1910. Her family was involved in the textile business and often traveled to visit relatives in England, where Stern attended her first years of elementary school. She studied piano and guitar and from 1923 to 1925 studied graphic design with Prof. Ernst Schneidler at the Kunstgewerbeschule (Am Weissenhof) in Stuttgart. In 1926 she worked as a freelance graphic design and advertising artist in her home town of Wuppertal. After seeing a photography exhibition of Edward Weston and Paul Outerbridge she was inspired to study photography. In 1927 Stern moved to Berlin to live with her brother Walter, who was working as a film editor. He sent her to meet photographer Umbo (Otto Umbehr) who in turn sent her to take private lessons with Walter Peterhans, a photographer well known for his meticulously produced still lives. In 1928 Peterhans also accepted Ellen (Rosenberg) Auerbach as a student. Stern and Auerbach began a profound friendship that lasted throughout their lifetime. “He taught us to see photographically. For him the camera was not just a mechanism to take a photograph. It was a new way of seeing,” she said in an interview in 1992. In 1930 Walter Peterhans was named Master of Photography at the renowned Bauhaus School for art and design in Dessau. Using the proceeds from an inheritance Stern bought his equipment and with Auerbach started a photography studio for advertising, fashion and portrait photography. They thought that calling it “Rosenberg [Ellen’s birth name] and Stern” sounded too much “like a Jewish clothes manufacturer” so they called it ringl+pit, after their childhood nicknames (Ringl for Grete, Pit for Ellen). They decided to sign all their work together. The 1930s In the early 1930s modern advertising was at its beginning and left ample room for creative exploration. ringl+pit’s advertising work represented a departure from current styles, by combining objects, mannequins and cut-up figures in a whimsical fashion. Stern and Auerbach were also influenced by the intense creative environment prevalent in Berlin at the time. Their work explored a new way of portraying women, in line with the image of the New Woman that was emerging at the time. There was a subtle irony in their work about what was accepted and expected of women that was a marked departure from the dominant image of women. Grete’s background in graphic design also came in handy. “What I liked very much was the combination of photography with a well done typography, with well done letters. That was my specialty,” said Stern. In 1933 ringl+pit’s work received positive reviews in the magazine Gebrauchsgraphik and in 1933 they won first prize for one of their advertising posters at the Deuxième Exposition Internationale de la Photographie et du Cinéma in Brussels. In April 1930 Grete Stern followed Peterhans to Dessau to continue her studies. There she met an Argentine photographer and fellow Peterhans student, Horacio Coppola. Auerbach kept the studio running and Stern returned to continue their work together in March 1931. She went back to the Bauhaus for further studies with Peterhans between April 1932 and March 1933. In 1933 the Bauhaus closed its doors, hounded by the Nazis. Although not an activist, Grete was sympathetic to leftist movements and her friends there warned her of the upcoming dangers posed by the new regime. With antisemitism becoming more and more aggressive, in early 1934 Stern left the ringl+pit studio and with her brother Walter emigrated to London. She was able to take with her all of her photographic equipment and furniture. These were productive years for Stern: she opened a photographic and advertisement studio and continued her work on portraits, photographing her friends from the community of German exiles, including Bertolt Brecht, Helene Weigel, Karl Korsch, and Paula Heimann. The French magazine Cahiers d’Art includes an article on the ringl+pit studio. Ellen Auerbach had also had to leave Germany and after a brief stay in Palestine joined Stern in London. Their last work together was photographs for a maternity hospital brochure. Relationship with Coppola and Early Work in Argentina Grete’s brother Walter emigrated to California in 1934. Grete Stern and Horacio Coppola were married in 1935 and traveled to Argentina, Coppola’s native country. In October 1935, shortly after arriving in Buenos Aires, Stern and Coppola mounted a joint exhibition that is considered the first exhibition of modern photography in Argentina. Unsure whether she wanted to stay with Coppola, a pregnant Stern went back to London, where her daughter Silvia was born on March 7, 1936. A few months later she decided to return to Coppola and Argentina, where she lived the rest of her life. Between 1937 and 1941 Stern and Coppola operated a photography, graphic design, and advertising studio in Buenos Aires. They tried to create a modern studio but they were too far ahead for the local way of working. At that time there were no advertising agencies in Buenos Aires. In 1943 Stern presented her first one-woman exhibition in Buenos Aires, which was comprised entirely of portraits. Her stark style was a marked departure from the dramatic and overlit pictures that were prevalent in Argentina at the time. Working as a woman in a male-dominated society was also a challenge. Stern and Coppola’s home was always open to receive Jewish and political exiles from Europe. They forged a community of support, work, and cultural activities with the intellectuals and artists escaping persecution, who also became models for her portrait work. In 1940 the couple moved to a Modernist house built in the outskirts of the city, designed by architect Wladimiro Acosta. It had a studio with natural light and darkroom facilities. A son, Andrés, was born the same year. The following year Stern and Coppola separated. The house became a meeting place for young artists and writers, many of them Coppola’s friends, both Argentine and exiled foreigners. They met to show their work and discuss cultural matters. For example, in 1945 the Madi arts group (Movimiento de Arte Concreto Invención) exhibited for the first time at her house. Stern used the gatherings in her home as an opportunity to photograph her visitors. Among her subjects were exponents of the avant-garde in the arts and letters, including Jorge Luis Borges, Clément Moreau, Renate Schottelius, and others. Stern’s photographs are a precious archive of intellectuals and artists of the time. “I made people see what I saw in a face. I never liked those hard shadows which were very often used at that time. Some critics thought that it was a bad way [to photograph], they said it’s all gray, it doesn’t say anything. But in the end they did like it,” said Stern. These photographs are studies of faces and heads, with simple backgrounds that do not distract from the main subject. Career Success in Argentina By the mid-1940s Stern was a well-established photographer and graphic designer in Buenos Aires. Throughout her career her photographic subjects were quite varied and included portraits, advertising, nature, cityscapes, and indigenous people in the North of Argentina. Stern’s portrait work was often done for pleasure, but her subjects became clients when they saw the product of her work. She also worked with architectural studios and in 1947 the magazine Nuestra Arquitectura published an article on architect Amancio Williams, with Stern’s photographs. At this time she started singing in choirs, which she would continue to do for the next forty years. In 1948 Stern was offered the unusual assignment of providing photos for a column on the interpretation of dreams in the popular weekly women’s magazine Idilio. The column, entitled “Psychoanalysis Will Help You,” was a response to dreams sent in by readers, mostly working-class women. It was written under the pseudonym Richard Rest by renowned sociologist Gino Germani, who later became a professor at Harvard University. The result was a series of about one hundred and fifty photomontages produced between 1948 and 1951 that show Stern’s avant-garde spirit. In these photomontages she portrays women’s oppression and submission in Argentine society with sarcastic and surreal images. The photomontage was an ideal way for Stern to express her ideas about the dominant values. In 1956 Stern created and directed a photography workshop at the Museo Nacional de Bellas Artes (National Fine Arts Museum,) where she worked until her retirement in 1970. There she met numerous artists and documented their portraits. An invitation in 1959 to teach a photography seminar at the University of the Northeast, in Resistencia, Chaco, gave a creative impulse to her work. In 1964 she obtained a grant from the Fondo Nacional de las Artes and traveled through the northeast of Argentina, producing more than eight hundred photos portraying the lives, craftwork, and daily activities of the aboriginals of the region. It constitutes the most important photo archive on this subject in Argentina. She was interested in showing the poor living conditions of the aboriginal populations and also highlighting their craft-making skills. Back in Buenos Aires she prepared an exhibition of this work at the Municipal Modern Art Museum of Buenos Aires. She hoped that her photographs would help foster change in the living conditions of the Indians from the Northeast, but this did not happen in her lifetime. A selection of these photographs was shown in 1975 at the Bauhaus Archiv in Berlin and later toured some German cities. The suicide of her son Andres in 1965 was a profound shock. Her mother had also taken her life, and Grete herself often suffered from depression. Later Life and Legacy Her teaching activities continued until 1985. Argentine photographer Sara Facio has commented on Stern’s influence in Argentina: “Grete has influenced new generations [of photographers] in two ways. On one hand, with the importance she gives to form. Her photography is not improvised but well thought out. And second by her attitude to life. She is a woman who has been devoted to her vocation, during good times and bad, and young people admire that” (Interview with the author, 1992). In 1972 Stern traveled to the United States, England, France, Greece, and Israel and for the first time since leaving in 1933 she visited Germany. In 1975 the Bauhaus-Archiv in Berlin organized the first photographic exhibition after the war, which included Stern’s work. In 1979 Gert Sander, August Sander’s grandson, began representing the ringl+pit work. In 1988 her hometown of Wuppertal organized a ringl+pit retrospective (Emigriert, “Emigrated”) that also included Stern and Auerbach’s later work. And in 1993 the Folkwang Museum in Essen purchased the original negatives and a large body of their work and presented an extensive exhibition of their work. She continued her studio work doing portraits and landscapes until 1980, when she stopped due to failing eyesight. “Photography has given me great happiness. I learned a lot and was able to say things I wanted to say and show,” said Stern in 1992. Grete Stern died in Buenos Aires on December 24, 1999 at the age of ninety-five. Grete Stern, who started her career in the European avant-garde of the late 1920s, produced her major body of work in Argentina, where her modern and different style placed her among the founders of Argentina’s modern photography.


--- [Who Is Harrison Ford's Second Wife? Exploring The Legacy Of ...] ---
About Us Advertise With Us RSS Feed | Content Syndication Terms & Conditions Privacy Policy Contact Us BollywoodShaadis.com © 2026, Red Hot Web Gems (I) Pvt Ltd, All Rights Reserved. By Anupal Neog Last Updated: Harrison Ford has built a big fan base throughout his career with multiple iconic roles. He has been a part of successful films over the years and has collaborated with the best directors. He has portrayed 'Han Solo' in the first movie in the Star Wars franchise, released back in 1977. Harrison reprised the role in four more films of the franchise. Starting from 1981, Ford became famous with his role as 'Indiana Jones' in Raiders of the Lost Ark, directed by Steven Spielberg. He gained recognition as he continued appearing as 'Indiana Jones' in four more entries of the action-adventure franchise. Harrison Ford has also played 'Rick Deckard' in Blade Runner and was seen as 'President Thaddeus Ross' in Captain America: Brave New World. Harrison is additionally popular among the television audience. He started appearing as 'Jacob Dutton' in 1923 from 2022 and played the role until 2025. Harrison has also portrayed 'Dr. Paul Rhoades' in the Apple TV+ series, Shrinking. Outside the entertainment industry, Harrison’s personal life has also grabbed a lot of attention. He has tied the knot thrice, and his second marriage was with the late screenwriter, Melissa Mathison. Keep reading to know more about Melissa and her relationship with Harrison Ford. Melissa Mathison completed her education at Providence High School and the University of California. Melissa’s family members were close to director Francis Ford Coppola, and the duo grew up together. Before entering the entertainment industry, Melissa worked for the latter as a babysitter for his children. According to Hello magazine, Melissa Mathison’s entry into Hollywood was a result of her friendship with Francis Ford Coppola. Melissa Mathison’s career started with The Godfather Part II. The gangster movie was directed by Francis Ford Coppola, and Melissa joined him in the film as an assistant. The Los Angeles Times stated that Melissa enrolled at UC Berkeley when she was approached for The Godfather Part II, and she interrupted her studies for the opportunity to work in the film. Following the release of the movie, Francis Ford Coppola encouraged Melissa to write her own material, leading to the creation of a script for The Black Stallion, which was released in 1979 and received positive reviews. Steven Spielberg was impressed with Melissa Mathison’s work in The Black Stallion. Notably, Melissa joined Steven for his 1982 cult classic, E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial. The science fiction was a big success at the box office and the recipient of multiple nominations at the Academy Awards. Melissa’s next film as a screenwriter was Twilight Zone: The Movie, released in 1983. She wrote the second segment of the film, titled Kick the Can. This particular segment was also directed by Steven Spielberg. Continue reading below Melissa Mathison also had an animated movie to her credit, titled Ponyo. She was a storyline consultant and contributed to the English translation of the Japanese movie. She was a screenwriter for other films like Son of the Morning Star, The Indian in the Cupboard, The Emperor’s New Clothes: An All-Star Illustrated Retelling of the Classic Fairy Tale, and Kundun. Apart from her work as a screenwriter, Melissa Mathison gained recognition for her activism in the Tibetan independence movement. She served as a board member of Tibet’s International Campaign and even met the Dalai Lama on one particular occasion. Melissa was 65 years old at the time of her death in 2015. She was suffering from neuroendocrine cancer, which led to her demise. Her last film as a screenwriter was The BFG, directed by Steven Spielberg, and released in 2016. Harrison Ford’s first marriage was to Mary Marquardt in 1964. Harrison collaborated with Francis Ford Coppola in Apocalypse Now, released in 1979. Harrison met Melissa Mathison on the sets of this movie. However, the duo did not get romantically linked during that period as Harrison was married to Mary. Harrison and Mary separated in 1979, and the former started dating Melissa in 1982. The pair exchanged vows in 1982 and welcomed two children, Malcolm and Georgia, in 1987 and 1990. Although Harrison and Melissa separated in 2000, the divorce was finalized in 2004. What are your thoughts about Melissa Mathison’s career over the years? Let us know. Also Read: Vijay Deverakonda Wore A Unique Emerald Necklace Encrusted With Diamonds On His Sangeet Ceremony advertisement advertisement advertisement


--- [Grete Stern, Horacio Coppola, Ellen Auerbach, and Elisabeth Hase] ---
Grete Stern and Horacio Coppola shared eight years of marriage, photography, and a dream. MoMA calls their exhibition "From Bauhaus to Buenos Aires," but the connections run every which way. It begins and ends in Argentina. Yet it moves between London and Germany, formalism and Marxism, graphic design and film. The Argentinean called a film produced in Berlin Der Traum, while the German called a series produced in Argentina after their divorce Sueños. At least language was not a barrier to dreaming. Nor was it for Ellen Auerbach, whose photographs with Stern launched their careers. Soon after, Elisabeth Hase learned from the Bauhaus as well, but also from a woman's image in Nazi Germany. The Modern has already asked how much Latin American architecture learned from Europe. Yet things were crazy all along. While Grete Stern and Horacio Coppola are just one node in the dizzying nexus of Modernism, like Lucio Fontana between Italy and Argentina, their more than three hundred works will keep anyone reeling. They met at the Bauhaus, where she introduced him to its director of photography, Walter Peterhaus. Stern, born in 1904, was two years older, and the show's subtitle puts her first, but the alternate rooms for each open with Coppola. He had a precocious start. As a young man, Coppola walked the streets of Buenos Aires with Jorge Luis Borges, claiming it as his own. He found the city intimately familiar, increasingly modern, and utterly strange. From 1928 to 1931, he subjects it to photograms, prisms, dizzying vantage points, and still life that might have spilled out of the unconscious. A shadow bisects his face, while reflected light stands in for hair and eyes. In Der Traum from 1933, a mysterious encounter with a black hat leads to an attack and then an escape. Surrealism for him expresses fear but releases possibilities. On his return home with Stern in 1936, the city seems plainer, but also darker and brooding. His photos came on commission, to commemorate the city's four hundredth anniversary, but they look none too celebratory. Eyes stare out from a billboard, and lifeless mannequins pose for the latest fashion. Buildings in converging perspective dwarf multitudes. Night scenes deny the light of day. Another short film attests to modernization, but the tower under construction threatens to crush its workers. Coppola was ever the contrarian, just as Surrealism for him exuded optimism. Then, too, he had been to Berlin, where he photographed Joan Miró, and he had fled with Stern from the Nazis, just as other exiles created Surrealism in Mexico. The twentieth century was not so much fun after all. He had also begun to take politics seriously. When he caught up with Stern in London, he portrayed it as a civilization in denial—the site of empty turnstiles and abandoned realty, slaughterhouses and empty clothing, and crowds too wrapped up in casual entertainment to care. A blind man reduced to begging holds a sign reading Success. Stern follows the reverse path between Europe and Latin America, toward Surrealism, without once giving up her pride and her hopes. At the Bauhaus she met Ellen Auerbach, with whom she opened a studio. As ringl + pit, after their childhood nicknames, they worked in design and portraiture, which both photographers then continued on their own. If their advertising and book covers include severed heads, the heads dream of the full range of modern design, from vibrant typefaces to shuffling color fields. Portraits, including Coppola's and Bertolt Brecht's, allow for introspection, dignity, and rest. They also place women on a par with men. Women come even more to the fore in the photomontage of Sueños. Produced from 1948 through 1951 for Idilio, a fashion magazine, they are anything but idyllic. A man with a lizard's head threatens sexual assault, a figure lies atop ladders supported only by one another, a couple get in their last kiss in a graveyard, and a woman faced with her own reflections must ask, Who Will She Be? Still, she has the courage to ask, and only the men look foolish. What happened to Stern and Coppola for the rest of the century, before her death in 1999 and his in 2012, and what happened to Auerbach period? The exhibition does not say, but then nothing within it runs in straight lines. Maybe, like short stories by Borges, the museum should have called it "Labyrinths." Ellen Auerbach grabs attention even before the beauty sets in. It may take all the beauty to overcome the shock. Views from a porch deck in Maine, in 1941, and of walking a dog at Big Sur, in 1950, have the intoxicating stillness of boats without visible need for mooring and of a long journey with nowhere to go. When people travel, they take breaks even from leisure. The photos are gorgeous to the point of sentimental, backgrounds disappearing into mist. Yet a wooden seagull might be about to take off, and the dog walker may end up swallowed whole by rain gear and rocky woods. They also share a sense of place, what another has called "Immersion," while a continent apart. Auerbach was always on edge, always on the move, and always at home. A Jew, she came to America with her husband, like so much of the Ephrussi family, to escape the Nazis, just as the family of Stéphane Mandelbaum left Poland, and she kept moving. Plenty of photographers have crossed America to document its people, its landscape, and their inner restlessness, like Robert Frank, Lee Friedlander, Mark Steinmetz, and Matthew Jensen. Yet none has her affinity with Surrealism and portraiture. Her subjects look within, without forgetting where they once belonged. If Auerbach is known at all, it is mostly for her work in Berlin with Stern. They already focus on private lives and public wit, in advertising as well as portraiture. People have an inner life, behind veils and eyelids, but in front of their shadows. The photographers themselves have one, in a double self-portrait with eyes wide open, simply by looking past one another. Yet the photos, like the times, have a way of disturbing lives. In one ad, a doll's head takes over from a model, who holds up a liquor bottle small enough that she could down it in one gulp. MoMA's joint survey of Stern and Coppola tosses Auerbach aside like a casualty of art and war. One would never know that she kept going, not just with a career, but also to the Americas. She later worked in Chile, Argentina, and Mallorca as well as Palestine, London, and the United States, culminating in studies of Mexican churches alongside Eliot Porter in 1955. The museum and gallery shows overlap, and it takes a checklist to know where collaborations begin and end. Auerbach met other exiles as well. Photos show Bertolt Brecht at work, with a hazy typewriter and a mean cigar, and Willem de Kooning in his studio, with all his charm and self-possession. Not everyone is so lucky, but no one entirely gives in. Slum dwellers in New York have a mean stare. A ballerina on a city roof leaps high into the air. A nude rests her head in a towel and hands in a sulfur bath, even as sulfur badly stains the tub. A woman in Mexico clutching lilies might be a corpse—but her lidded eyes, like the flowers, have come newly alive. A photo of the Statue of Liberty falls prey to a junk shop, and cormorants settle into a tree in Maine, but Liberty and the tree have the last word. Auerbach sets them apart from ordinary life while asserting where they belong. She also continues the theme of doubling, going back to ringl + pit as not so identical twins. The doubling is both unsettling and reassuring. Two thick, gnarly trees greet one another like friends, and so do wooden saints in a Mexico church. One raises his hand as if to make a point in conversation. The show ends with that sharp turn to color in Mexico, but she died some fifty years later in New York, at ninety-eight. An artist in Germany had to be careful as the Nazis rose to power—even more so as the Allied bombs fell. It was only natural to put aside worldly matters and to look within. Could that be why Elisabeth Hase looked so often to herself? Her self-portraits take exquisite care, but they may look at first ever so carefree. She catches herself asleep, in the shower, at ease, and in tears. She throws herself to the wind and up a staircase, only to fall headfirst, her Sunday best in disarray and her purse lost by her side. Of course, each is only a pose. Hase could not have fallen asleep in front of her camera, and not many showers rain down in the middle of a room, leaving a woman in shock at the cold. She did not inadvertently trip both the shutter and herself. Her poses can be self-assured or troubling, from a measured look straight forward to her face buried in a handkerchief while a man in a black robe, seen from behind, looks on. He could be her judge or her mirror. And who knows what lies within a cage between her hands, if not another reflection of herself? Maybe a truly modern artist had to adopt a disguise back then, but Hase has no end of them. Her pose as a scientist peering into a microscope could be right out of a life of Marie Curie, only that movie had yet to be made. She can put her very role as an artist on the line, training her box camera on a flower, like a weapon way too massive for its innocent subject. Yet she began the series by 1927, barely into her twenties, and her first show in America all but skips right over World War II. She lived from the age of the zeppelin, which she photographed, to 1991. It also points to her stubborn consistency. It divides in three, including the self-portraits, and each third can leave one guessing what came early and what came late, although it leaves her last forty years unspoken. A sewing kit, a glorious swirl of feathers, the bridge of a musical instrument, and apricots like planets in a dense universe all date from 1931, but she returns to still life after the war. She began her city views early, too, and she gained permission from the occupying U.S. Army to do so again. The ruins of Saint Paul's church testify to change, and one could read change into other photographs as well. Maybe sugar cubes piled high speak to shortages. Cars before the war look oversized and quaint, but one after the war, Hitler's beloved Volkswagen, goes up in flames. Regardless, Hase has her poses all along, along with edgy points of view. She peeks out from behind someone else, reflected and distorted in a sphere, like the one that Man Ray used for his Laboratory of the Future. Sunlight suffuses the city from behind, casting a mother and child in shadow. A double amputee eyes a wild animal in its cage, whether to seek redress or to sympathize with a fellow prisoner. For all the horror, they belong to the ordinary human comedy, like workers chipping away at the ruins or three children of disparate heights crossing the street with umbrellas. They look like an early version of Abbey Road. In fact, much looks like photography today. The self-portraits anticipate Cindy Sherman and Untitled Film Stills, although Hase is franker and more on the line. Two eggs holding out intact against a wire beater and their shadows look ahead to the kitchen still lifes of Jan Groover, although in black and white, and a calla lily has the pristine beauty of Robert Mapplethorpe and Mapplethorpe portraits in 1984. Still, Hase belongs to an older world of Bauhaus photography, like László Moholy-Nagy, and urban shadows, like Alfred Stieglitz. She was also a woman with, as the show's title has it, "An Independent Vision" and its costs. In a close-up of an eye, her lens is wide open, but the eyelid could almost be sewn shut. Grete Stern and Horacio Coppola ran at The Museum of Modern Art through October 4, 2015, Ellen Auerbach at Robert Mann through August 14. Elisabeth Hase ran at that gallery through May 7, 2016. The reviews of Auerbach and Hase first appeared in a slightly different form in New York Photo Review.
