=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Sheila Levrant de Bretteville - Wikipedia]
Bretteville was interviewed for the film !Women Art Revolution. She is a member of the Connecticut Academy of Arts and Sciences. She has been honored with many awards, such as a 2009 “Grandmaster” award from the New York Art Directors Club and several awards from the American Institute ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sheila_Levrant_de_Bretteville

[AWARD Definition & Meaning - Merriam-Webster]
award implies giving what is deserved or merited usually after a careful weighing of pertinent factors.
URL: https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/award

[Sheila Levrant De Bretteville]
She is a member of the Connecticut Academy of Arts and Sciences and has been honored with many awards such as a 2009 “Grandmaster” award from the New York Art Directors Club and a “Design Legend Gold Medal” from the American Institute of Graphic Arts (2004), “Best Public Artwork” ...
URL: https://www.womensactivism.nyc/stories/1834

[AWARD | English meaning - Cambridge Dictionary]
AWARD definition: 1. to give money or a prize following an official decision: 2. a prize or an amount of money that…. Learn more.
URL: https://dictionary.cambridge.org/dictionary/english/award

[About — Elisabeth McBrien]
Elisabeth McBrien b 1988 Brattleboro VT received her BFA from the Hartford Art School CT in 2010 and her MFA in painting from the New York Academy of Art NY in 2014. 2014 Honorable Mention for work in CT6 Juried Art Show West Hartford Art League West Hartford. 2...
URL: https://www.elisabethmcbrien.com/about


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Sheila Levrant de Bretteville - Wikipedia] ---
Sheila Levrant de Bretteville (born 1940) is an American graphic designer, artist and educator whose work reflects her belief in the importance of feminist principles and user participation in graphic design. In 1990, she became the director of the Yale University Graduate Program in Graphic Design and the first woman to receive tenure at the Yale University School of Art. In 2010, she was named the Caroline M. Street Professor of Graphic Design.


--- [AWARD Definition & Meaning - Merriam-Webster] ---
awarded; awarding; awards 1 : to confer or bestow as being deserved or merited or needed award scholarships to disadvantaged students 2 : to give by judicial decree or after careful consideration The jury awarded damages to the defendant. award a contract 1 : something that is conferred or bestowed especially on the basis of merit or need a film that has won several awards 2 a : a judgment or final decision especially : the decision of arbitrators in a case submitted to them b : the document containing the decision of arbitrators Love words? Need even more definitions? Merriam-Webster unabridged


--- [Sheila Levrant De Bretteville] ---
By: Fatslane Projects | Date Added: Sheila Levrant de Bretteville is an American graphic designer, artist, and educator whose work reflects her belief in the importance of feminist principles and user participation in graphic design. In 1971, de Bretteville founded the first design program for women at the California Institute of the Arts, and two years later co-founded the Woman's Building, a public center in Los Angeles dedicated to women's education and culture. In 1973, she founded the Women’s Graphic Center, and with Judy Chicago and Arlene Raven co-founded the Feminist Studio Workshop—both based at the Woman's Building. She designed a necklace of an eye bolt on a chain, meant to represent "strength without a fist"; she gave the first of these to Arlene Raven and Judy Chicago when they started the Feminist Studio Workshop in 1972. Since then she has given them to other women with whom she shares a vision of the creation of women's culture. She also created "Pink" for an exhibition about color at the American Institute of Graphic Arts; the broadside was meant to explore the notions of gender as associated with the color pink, and various women including many in the Feminist Studio Workshop submitted entries exploring their association with the color. She arranged the squares of paper to form a “quilt” from which posters were printed and disseminated throughout Los Angeles. As a result, de Bretteville earned the nickname "Pinky." In 1980, she initiated the communication design program at the Otis College of Art and Design, believing that the communal forms of art were an essential component of the Feminist Art Movement in the U.S. In 1990 she became the director of the Yale University Graduate Program in Graphic Design and the first woman to receive tenure at the Yale University School of Art. De Bretteville has worked extensively in the field of public art creating works embedded within city neighborhoods. One of her best-known pieces is "Biddy Mason's Place: A Passage of Time”—an 82-foot concrete wall with embedded objects in downtown Los Angeles that tells the story of Biddy Mason, a former slave who became a midwife in Los Angeles and lived near the site. In “Path of Stars,” completed in 1994 in a New Haven neighborhood, de Bretteville documented the lives of local citizens, past and present, with 21 granite stars set in the sidewalk. She is a member of the Connecticut Academy of Arts and Sciences and has been honored with many awards such as a 2009 “Grandmaster” award from the New York Art Directors Club and a “Design Legend Gold Medal” from the American Institute of Graphic Arts (2004), “Best Public Artwork” recognition from Americans for the Arts (2005), and honorary doctorates from the Moore College of Art and California College of the Arts. Share your thoughts on this story with us. Your comments will not be made public. Email


--- [AWARD | English meaning - Cambridge Dictionary] ---
Carlos was awarded first prize in the essay competition. [ + two objects ] The university has awarded her a $500 travel grant. - accommodate - accommodate someone with something - administer - administration - afford - arm someone with something - be good for something idiom - dish - go round phrasal verb - hand something around phrasal verb - hand something back phrasal verb - hand something down phrasal verb - outfit - provision - purvey - purveyor - put something on phrasal verb - re-equip - re-equipment - render They have authorized awards of £900 to each of the victims. the Academy Award for Best Director - aid - benefaction - bequest - bonus - book token - bounty - bride price - charity box - debt relief - donation box - dowry - financial aid - foreign aid - gift card - gift certificate - hansel - international aid - make a donation - Maundy - reward You can also find related words, phrases, and synonyms in the topics:


--- [About — Elisabeth McBrien] ---
EDUCATION 2014 MFA, The New York Academy of Art: New York, NY 2010 BFA, Hartford Art School, University of Hartford: West Hartford, CT EXHIBITED WORK 2019 Gallery Selections, MM Fine Art, Southampton, NY 2018 Art Miami, Art Miami Fairs Booth Partner 1 with the New York Academy of Art, Miami, FL 2017 Art New York (Pier 94), Presented by the New York Academy of Art and Art Miami, New York, NY 2016 Water Bodies, Southampton Arts Center, Southampton, NY 2016 Face Forward, West Hartford Art League, West Hartford, CT 2015 Solo Exhibition, West Hartford Art League, West Hartford, CT 2015 CT+6 Juried Art Show, West Hartford Art League, West Hartford, CT 2015 Young Talent Exhibition, Washington Art Association, Washington Depot, CT 2014 CT Women Artists 85th Annual Juried Exhibition, Slater Memorial Museum, Norwich, CT 2014 MFA Thesis Exhibition, New York Academy of Art, New York, NY 2013 Deck the Walls, New York Academy of Art, New York, NY 2012 Heads, New York Academy of Art, New York, NY 2011 Hartford Art School Alumni Juried Exhibition, West Hartford, CT 2011 Interpretations and Inspirations Juried Art Show, Farmington Valley Art Center, Farmington, CT 2011 CT+6 Juried Art Show, West Hartford Art League, West Hartford, CT 2010 Featured on cover of iTowns in The Hartford Courant 2010 CT Watercolor Society Juried Art Show, Clubhouse Gallery, West Hartford, CT 2010 Forgeries Gallery Exhibition, Charter Oak Cultural Center, Hartford, CT 2010 Our Scenic Valley: Celebrating Its Beautiful Places, Granby Land Trust, Granby, CT 2010 Senior Thesis Exhibition, Silpe Gallery, Hartford Art School, and Art Space, Hartford, CT 2006 First Year Student Exhibition, Silpe Gallery, Hartford Art School, West Hartford, CT 2005 Open Juried Show, West Hartford Art League, West Hartford, CT 2004 Hartford Arts Council Exhibition, Hartford ArtWorks Gallery, Hartford, CT TEACHING EXPERIENCE 2015 Adjunct professor of Figure Drawing, Hartford Art School, University of Hartford, West Hartford, CT RESIDENCIES 2018 Recipient of the Dumfries House Artist Residency, Scotland 2014 Recipient of The NYAA Terra Foundation Residency, Giverny, France AWARDS & SCHOLARSHIPS 2015 Best in Show for work in CT+6 Juried Art Show, West Hartford Art League, West Hartford, CT 2014 Honorable Mention for work in CT Women Artists 85th Annual Juried Exhibition, Norwich, CT 2011 People’s Choice Award for work in “Interpretations and Inspirations” Juried Art Show, Farmington Valley Art Center 2011 Honorable Mention for work in “Interpretations and Inspirations” Juried Art Show, FVAC 2010 Hartford Art School Scholarship for artistic merit
