=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[WhatsApp Web]
Log in to WhatsApp Web for simple, reliable and private messaging on your desktop. Send and receive messages and files with ease, all for free.
URL: https://web.whatsapp.com/

[WHAT Definition & Meaning - Merriam-Webster]
What you need is a vacation. What angered us was the tone of the article. What does he care? what with unemployment increasing. … what with the war, what with the sweat, what with the gallows, and what with poverty, I am custom-shrunk. William Shakespeare. What minerals do we export? What mountains! Remember what fun we had? What a suggestion!
URL: https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/what

[WHAT definition and meaning | Collins English Dictionary]
pronunciation note: Usually pronounced (hwɒt ) for meanings [sense 2], [sense 4], [sense 5] and [sense 18]. You use what in questions when you ask for specific information about something that you do not know. What do you want? What did she tell you, anyway? 'Has something happened?'—'Indeed it has.'—'What?'
URL: https://www.collinsdictionary.com/dictionary/english/what

[what pronoun - Definition, pictures, pronunciation and usage...]
Definition of what pronoun from the Oxford Advanced Learner's Dictionary. used in questions to ask for particular information about somebody/something. What is your name? What (= what job) does he do? What time is it? What kind of music do you like? Want to learn more? the thing or things that; whatever. What you need is a good meal.
URL: https://www.oxfordlearnersdictionaries.com/definition/english/what

[what - Wiktionary, the free dictionary]
Feb 15, 2026 · In cases where both "what" and "which" are possible, with similar meaning, "what" is preferred for open-ended choices, while "which" is preferred for choices from a closed group or set. For example, "Which one of these do you want?" not "What one of these do you want?".
URL: https://en.wiktionary.org/wiki/what


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [WhatsApp Web] ---
Feb MAR Apr 03 2025 2026 2027 success fail About this capture COLLECTED BY Collection: Save Page Now TIMESTAMPS The Wayback Machine - http://web.archive.org/web/20260303062512/https://web.whatsapp.com/ WhatsApp End-to-end encrypted


--- [WHAT Definition & Meaning - Merriam-Webster] ---
1 a(1) —used as an interrogative expressing inquiry about the identity, nature, or value of an object or matter What is this? What is wealth without friends? What does he earn? What hath God wrought? (2) —often used to ask for repetition of an utterance or part of an utterance not properly heard or understood You said what? b(1) —used as an interrogative expressing inquiry about the character, nature, occupation, position, or role of a person What do you think I am, a fool? What is she, that all our swains commend her?—William Shakespeare (2) archaic : who sense 1 —used as an interrogative expressing inquiry about the identity of a person c —used as an exclamation expressing surprise or excitement and frequently introducing a question What, no breakfast? d —used in expressions directing attention to a statement that the speaker is about to make you know what e(1) —used at the end of a question to express inquiry about additional possibilities Is it raining, or snowing, or what? (2) —used with or at the end of a question usually in expectation of agreement Is this exciting, or what? f chiefly British —used at the end of an utterance as a form of tag question A clever play, what? 2 a : the thing or things that What you need is a vacation. What angered us was the tone of the article. b : that which : the one or ones that no income but what he gets from his writings —sometimes used in reference to a clause or phrase that is yet to come or is not yet completegave also, what is more valuable, understanding 3 a : whatever sense 1a say what you will b obsolete : whoever 4 chiefly dialectal : that entry 4 sense 1, which sense 3, who sense 3 1 : in what respect : how What does he care? 2 —used to introduce prepositional phrases in parallel construction or a prepositional phrase that expresses cause and usually has more than one object —used principally before phrases beginning with with what with unemployment increasing … what with the war, what with the sweat, what with the gallows, and what with poverty, I am custom-shrunk.—William Shakespeare 3 obsolete : why 1 a —used as an interrogative expressing inquiry about the identity, nature, or value of a person, object, or matter What minerals do we export? b : how remarkable or striking for good or bad qualities —used especially in exclamatory utterances and dependent clauses What mountains! Remember what fun we had? What a suggestion! What a charming girl! 2 a : the … that : as much or as many … as rescued what survivors they found b(1) (2) : any ornament of what description soever Love words? Need even more definitions? Merriam-Webster unabridged


--- [WHAT definition and meaning | Collins English Dictionary] ---
Definition of 'what' pronunciation note: Usually pronounced (hwɒt ) for meanings [sense 2], , [sense 4], , [sense 5] and , [sense 18]. 1. pronoun 2. conjunction You use what after certain words, especially verbs and adjectives, when you are referring to a situation that is unknown or has not been specified. 3. conjunction 4. conjunction You use what in expressions such as what is called and what amounts to when you are giving a description of something. 5. conjunction 6. convention 7. convention 10. adverb [ADVERB noun] You use what to indicate that you are making a guess about something such as an amount or value. 11. 12. See or what 13. 14. See tell you what 15. See what about 16. See what about/of 17. See what about 18. See what have you 19. See what if 20. See what's what 21. See what with 22. See you what 23. what's more Collins COBUILD Advanced Learner’s Dictionary. Copyright © HarperCollins Publishers English Easy Learning GrammarDeterminersWhat is a determiner in English? When do you use 'a' and 'an' in English? When do you use 'the' in English? Which nouns are used without 'a', 'an', or ... Read more When do you use 'a' and 'an' in English? When do you use 'the' in English? Which nouns are used without 'a', 'an', or ... Read more English Easy Learning GrammarExclamationsWhat are exclamations and interjections in English? ... Read more ... Read more English Easy Learning GrammarExclamativesHow do you use the words what and such to show surprise or admiration in English? ... Read more ... Read more Video: pronunciation of what Word Frequency what in British English determiner 1. a. used with a noun in requesting further information about the identity or categorization of something what job does he do? 2. a. the (person, thing, persons, or things) that we photographed what animals we could see b. (as pronoun) bring me what you've written come what may pronoun ▶ USAGE The use of are in sentences such as what we need are more doctors is common, although many people think is should be used: what we need is more doctors5. not standard which, who, or that, when used as relative pronouns this is the man what I saw in the park yesterday 6. See what about 7. See what for 8. See what have you 10. See what matter 11. See what's what Collins English Dictionary. Copyright © HarperCollins Publishers Word origin Old English hwæt; related to Old Frisian whet, Old High German hwaz (German was), Old Norse hvatrWord Frequency what in American English pronoun 1. as an interrogative: which thing, event, circumstance, etc.?: used to ask for the specification of an identity, quantity, quality, etc., as: a. the nature, class, name, purpose, etc. of a thing what is that object? what is your address? b. b. such an explanation or repetition used elliptically “Sh. Quiet!” “What?” 2. as a relative pronoun, with the meaning: a. that which or those which to know what one wants b. anything that do what you will d. that or who a nonstandard usage the man what gave it to me 3. as an intensifier in exclamations [what he said about her!] 4. in various other uses a. Chiefly British, Informal it's rather late, what? c. used elliptically to mean “what it is,” “what to do,” etc. I'll tell you what! adjective 6. which or which kind of used interrogatively or relatively in asking for or specifying the nature, identity, etc. of a person or thing what man told you that? he knows what role she played 7. as much, or as many, as take what time (or men) you need 8. how great, surprising, magnificent, disappointing, etc. in exclamations what a man! what nonsense! adverb 9. in what respect? to what degree? how? what does it matter? 10. how greatly, surprisingly, etc. in exclamations what tragic news! 11. Obsolete why? conjunction Idioms: Webster’s New World College Dictionary, 4th Edition. Copyright © 2010 by Houghton Mifflin Harcourt. All rights reserved. Word Frequency what in American English (hwʌt, hwɑt, wʌt, wɑt, unstressed hwət, wət) pronoun 1. (used interrogatively as a request for specific information) What is the matter? 2. (used interrogatively to inquire about the character, occupation, etc., of a person) What does he do? 3. (used interrogatively to inquire as to the origin, identity, etc., of something) What are those birds? 4. (used interrogatively to inquire as to the worth, usefulness, force, or importance of something) What is wealth without friends? 5. (used interrogatively to request a repetition of words or information not fully understood, usually used in elliptical constructions) You need what? 6. (used interrogatively to inquire the reason or purpose of something, usually used in elliptical constructions) What of it? 7. how much? What does it cost? 9. whatever; anything that Say what you please Come what may 10. the kind of thing or person that He said what everyone expected he would They are just what I was expecting 11. as much as; as many as We should each give what we can 12. (used in parenthetic clauses) the thing or fact that He went to the meeting and, what was worse, insisted on speaking 13. You know what? Shall we go or what? 14. What luck! What an idea! 15. Brit don't you agree? An unusual chap, what? 16. not standard that; which; who She's the one what told me 17. See Say what? 18. See So what? 19. See what have you 20. See what for 21. See what if 22. See what it takes 23. See what's what noun 24. the true nature or identity of something, or the sum of its characteristics a lecture on the whats and hows of crop rotation adjective 25. (used interrogatively before nouns) What news? What clothes shall I pack? 26. whatever Take what supplies you need adverb 28. (used to introduce a prepositional phrase beginning with with) What with storms and all, their return was delayed 29. obsolete for what reason or purpose? why? interjection USAGE 31. See doubt.30. (used in exclamatory expressions, often fol. by a question) What, no salt? Most material © 2005, 1997, 1991 by Penguin Random House LLC. Modified entries © 2019 by Penguin Random House LLC and HarperCollins Publishers Ltd Word origin [bef. 900; ME; OE hwæt; c. G was, D wat, ON hvat; akin to Goth hwa, L quod, Gk tí]Examples of 'what' in a sentence what These examples have been automatically selected and may contain sensitive content that does not reflect the opinions or policies of Collins, or its parent company HarperCollins. We welcome feedback: report an example sentence to the Collins team. Read more… Trends of what View usage for: In other languages what British English: what /wɒt; wət/ DETERMINER You use what with a noun, when you ask for information. What time is it? - American English: what /ˈwɒt, ˈwʌt/ - Arabic: أيُّ - Brazilian Portuguese: que - Chinese: 什么 - Croatian: Koliko - Czech: jaký - Danish: hvilken - Dutch: welke - European Spanish: qué - Finnish: mikä - French: quel - German: welcher - Greek: τι - Italian: quale - Japanese: 何の - Korean: 무슨 - Norwegian: hva - Polish: jaki - European Portuguese: que - Romanian: cât - Russian: который - Latin American Spanish: que - Swedish: vad - Thai: อะไร - Turkish: ne - Ukrainian: який - Vietnamese: gì British English: what /wɒt; wət/ PRONOUN You use what in questions when you ask for information. What do you want? - American English: what /wʌt; wət/ - Arabic: ما - Brazilian Portuguese: que - Chinese: 什么 - Croatian: što - Czech: co - Danish: hvad - Dutch: wat - European Spanish: qué - Finnish: mitä - French: qu’est-ce que - German: was - Greek: τι - Italian: cosa - Japanese: 何 - Korean: 무엇 - Norwegian: hva - Polish: co - European Portuguese: que - Romanian: ce - Russian: что - Latin American Spanish: qué - Swedish: vad - Thai: อันไหน, สิ่งไหน - Turkish: ne - Ukrainian: що - Vietnamese: những thứ mà Browse alphabetically what Source Definition of what from the Collins English Dictionary Read about the team of authors behind Collins Dictionaries. Quick word challenge Quiz Review Question: 1 - Score: 0 / 5 INVERTEBRATES Drag the correct answer into the box. beetle ladybird grasshopper caterpillar INVERTEBRATES Drag the correct answer into the box. bee grasshopper butterfly dragonfly INVERTEBRATES Drag the correct answer into the box. mayfly fly cockroach slug INVERTEBRATES Drag the correct answer into the box. snail ant spider slug INVERTEBRATES Drag the correct answer into the box. centipede ant butterfly caterpillar Your score: Word of the day vocabulary Your vocabulary is the total number of words you know in a particular language. Latest Word Submissions Scrub-a-dub dub! Celebrating Bubble Bath Day To celebrate Bubble Bath Day, we’ve compiled a selection of bath-themed words that make splashing around so much fun! Read more 17 other words for ‘cry’ What other words can you use instead of 'cry' to make your writing more interesting? Improve your English with Collins. Read more 17 other words for 'look' What other words can you use instead of 'look' to make your writing more interesting? Improve your English with Collins. Read more Collins English Dictionary Apps Download our English Dictionary apps - available for both iOS and Android. Read more Collins Dictionaries for Schools Our new online dictionaries for schools provide a safe and appropriate environment for children. And best of all it's ad free, so sign up now and start using at home or in the classroom. Read more Word lists We have almost 200 lists of words from topics as varied as types of butterflies, jackets, currencies, vegetables and knots! Amaze your friends with your new-found knowledge! Read more Quick word challenge Quiz Review Question: 1 - Score: 0 / 5 FRUIT Drag the correct answer into the box. pomegranate banana redcurrant pear Your score:


--- [what pronoun - Definition, pictures, pronunciation and usage...] ---
- used in questions to ask for particular information about somebody/something - What is your name? - What (= what job) does he do? - What time is it? - What kind of music do you like? - the thing or things that; whatever - What you need is a good meal. - Nobody knows what will happen next. - I spent what little time I had with my family. - used to say that you think that something is especially good, bad, etc. - What awful weather! - What a beautiful house! Word OriginOld English hwæt, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch wat and German was, from an Indo-European root shared by Latin quod. Idioms See what in the Oxford Advanced American DictionarySee what in the Oxford Learner's Dictionary of Academic Englishand what not | and what have you - (informal) and other things of the same type - It's full of old toys, books and what not. come what may - despite any problems or difficulties you may have - He promised to support her come what may. get/give somebody what for - (informal) to be punished/punish somebody severely - I'll give her what for if she does that again. or what (informal) - used to emphasize your opinion - Is he stupid or what? - used when you are not sure about something - I don't know if he's a teacher or what. - Are we going now or what? say what? - (North American English, informal) used to express surprise at what somebody has just said - ‘He's getting married.’ ‘Say what?’ so what? - (informal) used to show that you think something is not important, especially after somebody has criticized you for it - ‘He's fifteen years younger than you!’ ‘So what?’ - So what if nobody else agrees with me? what? (informal) - used when you have not heard or have not understood something - What? I can't hear you. - used to show that you have heard somebody and to ask what they want - ‘Mummy!’ ‘What?’ ‘I'm thirsty.’ - used to express surprise or anger - ‘It will cost $500.’ ‘What?’ - ‘I asked her to marry me.’ ‘You what?’ what about…? (informal) - used to make a suggestion - What about a trip to France? - used to introduce somebody/something into the conversation - What about you, Joe? Do you like football? what-d’you-call-him/-her/-it/-them | what’s-his/-her/-its/-their-name - used instead of a name that you cannot remember - She's just gone out with old what-d'you-call-him. what for? - for what purpose or reason? - What is this tool for? - What did you do that for (= why did you do that)? - ‘I need to see a doctor.’ ‘What for?’ what if…? - what would happen if? - What if the train is late? - What if she forgets to bring it? what of it? - (informal) used when admitting that something is true, to ask why it should be considered important - Yes, I wrote the article. What of it? what’s all that about? (British English) (North American English what’s up with that?) - used to suggest that something you have heard is a stupid idea or does not make sense - They dropped their best player. What's all that about? (know) what’s what - (informal) (know) what things are useful, important, etc. - She certainly knows what's what. what’s with somebody? - (North American English, informal) used to ask why somebody is behaving in a strange way - What's with you? You haven't said a word all morning. what’s with something? - (North American English, informal) used to ask the reason for something - What's with all this walking? Can't we take a cab? what with something - used to list the various reasons for something - What with the cold weather and my bad leg, I haven't been out for weeks. Check pronunciation: what


--- [what - Wiktionary, the free dictionary] ---
what English [edit]Etymology [edit]From Middle English what, from Old English hwæt (“what”), from Proto-West Germanic *hwat, from Proto-Germanic *hwat (“what”), from Proto-Indo-European *kʷód (“what”), neuter form of *kʷós (“who”). Cognate with Scots what, whit (“what”), North Frisian wat (“what”), Saterland Frisian wat (“what”), West Frisian wat (“what”), Dutch wat (“what”), Low German wat (“what”), German was (“what”), Danish hvad (“what”), Norwegian Bokmål hva (“what”), Swedish vad (“what”), Norwegian Nynorsk kva (“what”), Icelandic hvað (“what”), Latin quod (“what, which”). Its use as a particle of contradiction or objection in colloquial Singaporean and Malaysian English is analogous to Cantonese 喎 / 㖞 (wo3, etymology 2, sense 3). It is possible that this was historically reinforced by the dated use of what as a sentence-final question tag in British English. Pronunciation [edit]- (wine–whine merger) enPR: wŏt, Rhymes: -ɒt - Homophones: Watt, watt, wot - (Received Pronunciation, New Zealand, New York City) IPA(key): /wɒt/ Audio (UK): (file) Audio (New York City, glottalized); [wɒʔ(t)]: (file) - (Standard Southern British, General Australian) IPA(key): /wɔt/ - (Indic) IPA(key): /wʱɔʈ/ - (father-bother merger) enPR: wät - (without the wine–whine merger) enPR: hwŏt, IPA(key): /ʍɒt/ - (US, Canada, Singapore), Rhymes: -ʌt - (wine–whine merger) enPR: wŭt, IPA(key): /wʌt/, (Singapore, as a particle) [wɐ(ː)t̚˨˩] Audio (US, stressed form): (file) Audio (US, unstressed form, flapped); [wʌɾ]: (file) Audio (US, unstressed form, glottalized); [wʌˀ]: (file) - (without the wine–whine merger) enPR: hwŭt, IPA(key): /ʍʌt/ Audio (US, stressed form): (file) - (wine–whine merger) enPR: wŭt, IPA(key): /wʌt/, (Singapore, as a particle) [wɐ(ː)t̚˨˩] Determiner [edit]what - (interrogative) Which, especially which of an open-ended set of possibilities. - What colour are you going to use? - What time is it? - What kind of car is that? - Did you buy the groceries? — With what money? We barely have any left. - 2022 October 14, Justin Curto, “The 1975’s Matty Healy Prefers Writing Lyrics He’s Afraid Of”, in Vulture[1], archived from the original on 18 October 2022: - Everyone always asks what my advice is, and my advice is don’t overintellectualize your art. - (indirect interrogative) Which. - I wonder what colour he is going to use. - I know what colour I am going to use. - That depends on what answer is received. - (relative) Any ... that; all ... that; whatever. - He seems to have lost what sense he had. - What money I earn is soon spent. - 1860 December – 1861 August, Charles Dickens, chapter III, in Great Expectations […], volume I, London: Chapman and Hall, […], published October 1861, →OCLC, page 40: - He crammed what little food was left, into the breast of his grey jacket. - Emphasises that something is noteworthy or remarkable in quality or degree, in either a good or bad way; may be used in combination with certain other determiners, especially 'a', less often 'some'. - This shows what beauty there is in nature. - You know what nonsense she talks. - I found out what a liar he is. - (exclamative) Used to form exclamations indicating that something is remarkable, in either a good or bad way. - Synonym: such - What nonsense! - Wow! What a speech. - What beautiful children you have. - With what passion she sings! - Little Red Riding Hood, traditional folk tale - “Oh Granny, what big eyes you have,” said Little Red Riding Hood. Usage notes [edit]In cases where both "what" and "which" are possible, with similar meaning, "what" is preferred for open-ended choices, while "which" is preferred for choices from a closed group or set. For example, "Which one of these do you want?" not "What one of these do you want?". As used to begin an exclamation, what and such are largely interchangeable, with a few exceptions: - Nouns modified by such need not appear at the beginning of the sentence: She sings with such passion. - such requires that the noun phrase it modifies be gradable in some way. Such a disaster! is acceptable because a disaster may be minor or major in degree, but Such a movie! is not (except with the unusual meaning that the movie under discussion has especially "movie-like" qualities). how is another word used at the beginning of a sentence to form an exclamation (How quickly he ran!), but it modifies different syntactic elements (verbs, adjectives, adverbs, and certain determinatives). Translations [edit] | | - The translations below need to be checked and inserted above into the appropriate translation tables. See instructions at Wiktionary:Entry layout § Translations. - The translations below need to be checked and inserted above into the appropriate translation tables. See instructions at Wiktionary:Entry layout § Translations. | Pronoun [edit]what - (interrogative) Which thing, event, circumstance, etc.: used in asking for the specification of an identity, quantity, quality, etc. - Hammer in that nail —What with? I didn't bring my set of tools. - What is your name? - My kids set the neighbor's cat on fire. —They did what? - Ask them what they want. - What d’you say that made him so angry? - I’ve broken the exhaust manifold gasket. - You’ve broken the what? - 2016, VOA Learning English (public domain) - The gym is across from … what? — The gym is across from the lounge. — Across from the lounge. Right. Thanks! - (fused relative) That which; those that; the thing(s) that. - He knows what he wants and what to do to get it. - What is amazing is his boundless energy. - And, what's even worse, I have to work on Sunday too. - What is astonishing, she doesn't want the job. -What’s even more staggering, neither of her friends does either. - (fused relative) Anything that; all that; whatever. - I will do what I can to help you. - What I'll do is, I'll phone you to let you know. - What is mine is yours. - (relative, nonstandard) That; which; who. - Look! It's that bloke again what was 'ere yesterday! - 1887, Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, A Study in Scarlet, page 60: - "I'll tell it ye from the beginning," he said. "My time is from ten at night to six in the morning. At eleven there was a fight at the 'White Hart'; but bar that all was quiet enough on the beat. At one o'clock it began to rain, and I met Harry Murcher—him who has the Holland Grove beat—and we stood together at the corner of Henrietta Street a-talkin'. Presently—maybe about two or a little after—I thought I would take a look round and see that all was right down the Brixton Road. It was precious dirty and lonely. Not a soul did I meet all the way down, though a cab or two went past me. I was a strollin' down, thinkin' between ourselves how uncommon handy a four of gin hot would be, when suddenly the glint of a light caught my eye in the window of that same house. Now, I knew that them two houses in Lauriston Gardens was empty on account of him that owns them who won't have the drains seen to, though the very last tenant what lived in one of them died o' typhoid fever. I was knocked all in a heap therefore at seeing a light in the window, and I suspected as something was wrong. When I got to the door——" - 1902, J. M. Barrie, The Admirable Crichton: - That’s her; that’s the thing what has stole his heart from me. - 1949 November, Nelson Algren, “Rumors of Evening”, in The Man with the Golden Arm: A Novel, Garden City, N.Y.: Doubleday & Company, →OCLC, page 77: - A diploma in the waiting room revealed Big Boy to be a member of The American Association of Medical Hydrology, whatever that might be. Furthermore he was a deacon of the Royal Aryan Society for Positive Christianity and as such was privileged to throw in divine healing without extra charge. That went right along with the three-dollar treatment for a touch of the astral power and a short lecture on the latent powers possessed by all of us. “Pow-wers what vassly transent our normaller ones,” was just how Big Boy put it. - 2017, Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 2: - For, it is a name what strikes fear in the heart of anyone what hears it. Translations [edit] | | | Adverb [edit]what (not comparable) - (interrogative) In what way; to what extent. - What does it matter? - What do you care? - It must be, what, twenty-five years since we first met. - Used before a prepositional phrase to emphasise that something is taken into consideration as a cause or reason; usually used in combination with 'with' (see what with), and much less commonly with other prepositions. - 1787, Henry St. John, Lord Viscount Bolingbroke, Letters on the Study and Use of History: A Letter to Sir William Windham, page 83: - In short; what by the indiscretion of people here, what by the rebound which came often back from London, what by the private interests and ambitious views of persons in the French court, and what by other causes unnecessary to be examined now, the most private transactions came to light [...] - 1815, Rev. Mr. Milne, letter reprinted in The Evangelical Magazine and Missionary Chronicle, Volume 23, page 82. [2] - The Chinese of all ranks, and in every place, received my books gladly, and listened with patience to what I had to say about the true God.—So that what from opportunities of attending to the object of my Mission among the Chinese—what from seasons of religious instruction to Dutch and English—what from intercourse with gentlemen of education and knowledge of the world—what from occasions of stating clearly the object of Missions, and of endeavouring to remove prejudices against them—and what from the view of a highly cultivated country, happy under an enlightened and liberal government, I have much reason to be satisfied with this journey [...] Translations [edit]- The translations below need to be checked and inserted above into the appropriate translation tables. See instructions at Wiktionary:Entry layout § Translations. - The translations below need to be checked and inserted above into the appropriate translation tables. See instructions at Wiktionary:Entry layout § Translations. Interjection [edit]what - An expression of surprise or disbelief. - wait this song is so good whattt - c. 1603–1606, William Shakespeare, “The Tragedie of King Lear”, in Mr. William Shakespeares Comedies, Histories, & Tragedies […] (First Folio), London: […] Isaac Iaggard, and Ed[ward] Blount, published 1623, →OCLC, (please specify the act number in uppercase Roman numerals, and the scene number in lowercase Roman numerals): - What, have his daughters brought him to this pass? - What do you want? An abrupt, usually unfriendly enquiry as to what a person desires. - What? I'm busy. - (British, colloquial, dated) Clipping of what do you say?, used as a type of tag question to emphasise a statement and invite agreement, often rhetorically. - It’s a nice day, what? - 1991 May 12, “Kidnapped!”, in Jeeves and Wooster, Series 2, Episode 5: - Chuffy: WHAT? No, no, no, no, no. My casa is your casa, what? - What did you say? I beg your pardon? This usage is often considered impolite, with the more polite "Pardon?" or "Excuse me?" preferred. - — Could I have some of those aarrrrrr mmmm ... — What? - Indicating a guess or approximation, or a pause to try to recall information. - I must have been, what, about five years old. Alternative forms [edit]Synonyms [edit]- (colloquial British interjection): what-what, wot - (what did you say?): come again, pardon; see also Thesaurus:say again Translations [edit] | Noun [edit]what (countable and uncountable, plural whats) - (obsolete, uncountable) Something; thing; stuff. - 1596, Edmund Spenser, “Book VI, Canto IX”, in The Faerie Queene. […], London: […] [John Wolfe] for William Ponsonbie, →OCLC, stanza 7: - They prayd him sit, and gave him for to feed / Such homely what as serves the simple clowne, / That doth despise the dainties of the towne […] - (countable) The identity of a thing, as an answer to a question of what. - 2005, Norman K. Denzin, Yvonna S. Lincoln, The SAGE Handbook of Qualitative Research, page 493: - The emphasis on the interplay between the hows and whats of interpretive practice is paramount. - (countable) Something that is addressed by what, as opposed to a person, addressed by who. - 2012, "We Are Both", season 2, episode 2 of Once Upon a Time - Regina: What are you? - Rumplestiltskin: What? What? What? My, my, what a rude question! I am not a what. - 2012, "We Are Both", season 2, episode 2 of Once Upon a Time Particle [edit]what - (Singlish, Manglish) Emphasizes the truth of an assertion made to contradict an evidently false assumption held by the listener. - Pitch contour: low [wʌt˩], low-dipping [wʌt˨˩] - 1978, L. C. Cheong, Youth in the Army, page 142: - Most things come from Europe what. - 1989, Eleanor Wong, Jackson on a Jaunt, or, Mistaken Identities, page 8, lines 5–9: - 2007, yansimon52, soc.culture.singapore (Usenet): - […] they can't be the same what? - (Singlish, Manglish) Used to invite agreement or acknowledgment when something is assumed to be straightforward or already obvious to begin with; similar in function to “right?” and “as you know”. - Pitch contour: low [wʌt˩], low-dipping [wʌt˨˩] - Synonym: mah - If it doesn’t get sunlight, it won’t grow what, so you should consider moving it closer to the window. - 2018, Weimin Toh, quoting Nasir, A Multimodal Approach to Video Games and the Player Experience, Taylor & Francis, →ISBN, page 2016: - […] like Joel you can just melee what. Melee your way through if you can’t handle them […] - (Singlish, Manglish) Used after a direct assertion to reinforce a disagreeing opinion. - Synonym: (less assertive) leh - Pitch contour: low [wʌt˩], low-dipping [wʌt˨˩] - The lava cakes are not that bad what. Usage notes [edit]Only used at the end of sentences. Derived terms [edit]- a man's gotta do what a man's gotta do - as what - be careful what you wish for - be it what it would - come what may - dance with the one what brought ya - dance with the one what brought you - dance with the one what brung ya - dance with the one what brung you - do exactly what it says on the tin - do what - do you know what I'm saying - eat what you kill - for what - for what it's worth - get out what one puts in - get what one asked for - give someone what-for - give someone what for - give what for - gods may do what cattle may not - guess what - hear what I'm saying - hold come what may - I am what I am - if you know what I mean - if you see what I mean - I know you are but what am I - in what world - I see what you did there - it doesn't matter what they say about you as long as they spell your name right - it is what it is - it's not what you know but who you know - know what - know what I'm saying - know what is what - know what o'clock it is - know what one is about - know what one is doing - know what's what - leave with the one what brought ya - leave with the one what brought you - leave with the one what brung ya - leave with the one what brung you - look what the cat dragged in - look what the cat drug in - look what the cat's dragged in - much-what - much what - never put off until tomorrow what you can do today - no matter what - not know what hit one - not know what one is missing - now that's what I call - now what - one's gotta do what one's gotta do - one's got to do what one's got to do - on what planet - or what - pick up what someone is laying down - pick up what someone is putting down - practice what one preaches - practise what one preaches - reap what one sows - say what - say what you like - see what sticks - show what one is made of - smell what someone is stepping in - so what - tell you what - that's what I call - that's what I'm talking about - that's what she said - the heart wants what it wants - the heart wants what the heart wants - the left hand doesn't know what the right hand is doing - them what has gets - throw things at the wall and see what sticks - to what do I owe the pleasure - to what end - up what spring - wha - what about - what about the children - what a lovely day - what a pity - what are friends for - what are the odds - what are you doing - what are you like - what are you looking at - what are you smoking - what are you waiting for - what a shame - what a small world - what a way to go - what can I do you for - what can I say - what can I tell you - what can you do - what cheer - what color is the sun in your world - what color is your Bugatti - what colour is your Bugatti - what date is it today - what day is it today - what did I tell you - what did your last slave die of - what does it matter - what doesn't kill you makes you stronger - what does that have to do with the price of corn - what does that have to do with the price of fish - what does that have to do with the price of tea in China - what does … mean - what do I care - what do I know - what-do-you-call-it - what do you do - what do you do for a living - what do you know - what do you make the time - what do you mean - what do you want - what do you want: blood? - what-d'ye-call-'em - what-d'ye-call-it - what else is new - what foot the shoe is on - what for - what gives - what goes around comes around - what goes on - what goes up must come down - what good is - what happens in Vegas stays in Vegas - what happens on the road stays on the road - what happens on tour stays on tour - what has been seen cannot be unseen - what has someone done - what hath God wrought - what-have-you - what have you - what ho - what-if - what if - what-iffery - what in tarnation - what in the world - what in time - what is her name - what is his name - what is it - what is more - what is that - what is the matter - what is the Wi-Fi password - what is this I don't even - what is up - what is what - what is your job - what is your name - what is your phone number - what is your problem - what it be - what it do - what it is - what it takes - what kind of - what kind of music do you like - what languages do you speak - what-like - whatness - what next - what-not - what not - what-not shop - what now - what number - what o'clock is it - what of - what of it - what one is made of - what say you - what seems to be the problem - what should I do - what-so-ever - what someone said - what someone says goes - what's what - what the - what the actual fuck - what the crap - what the Devil, deuce, dickens, hell, heck, fuck - what the doctor ordered, just what the doctor ordered - what the ef - what the eff - what the fish - what the flying fuck - what the fuck ever - what the fudge - what the goodyear - what the hay - what the hey - what the shit - what the what - what though - what time - what time do you make it - what time have you got - what time is it - what up - what was someone smoking - what was someone thinking - what was that - what was your first clue - what way the wind is blowing - what wins on Sunday sells on Monday - what with - what would Jesus do - what would you like - what-you-call-it - what you don't know can't hurt you - what you gain on the swings you lose on the roundabouts - what you lose on the swings you gain on the roundabouts - what-you-may-call-it - what you saying - what-you-see-is-what-you-get - what you see is what you get - who are you and what have you done with someone - write-what-where - you and what army - you are what you eat - you get what you pay for - you hear what I'm saying - you know what - you-know-what - you know what I mean - you know what I'm saying - you know what they say - you never know what you've got till it's gone - you only get what you give - you think what - you what See also [edit]| Discourse particles in colloquial Singaporean and Malaysian English | ||||||||| |---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---| | ⟵ More assertiveLess assertive ⟶ | ||||||||| | Objection | what | Assertive emphasis | lah1–14 | Self-evident answer | lor2–3 | Resignation | lor1, ah6 | Uncertainty | leh1–2 | | Self-evident reason | mah | Declarative emphasis | leh3–6, one1–3, hor1, know, nia, only | Discontent; shock; coarseness | sia | Agreement-seeking | hor2 | Confirmation-seeking | ah1–3, hah1–3 | | Skepticism | meh | Confident speculation | ba2 | Tentative judgment | leh7–11, ba1 | |||| | Non-pragmatic | ||||||||| | Aspectual | liao, already | |||||||| References [edit]- Low, Ee Ling; Brown, Adam (2005), English in Singapore: An Introduction, →ISBN - Kuteva, Tania; Rhee, Seongha; Ziegeler, Debra; Sabban, Jessica (2018), “On sentence-final “what” in Singlish: Are you the Queen of England, or what?”, in Journal of Language Contact[4] Anagrams [edit]Chinese [edit]Alternative forms [edit]Etymology [edit]From clipping of English WhatsApp. Pronunciation [edit]- Cantonese - (Standard Cantonese, Guangzhou–Hong Kong)+ - Jyutping: wot1 / wat1 - Yale: wōt / wāt - Cantonese Pinyin: wot7 / wat7 - Guangdong Romanization: wod1 / wed1 - Sinological IPA (key): /wɔːt̚⁵/, /wɐt̚⁵/ - (Standard Cantonese, Guangzhou–Hong Kong)+ Verb [edit]what - (Hong Kong Cantonese) to WhatsApp; to send via WhatsApp Middle English [edit]Etymology 1 [edit]From Old English hwæt, from Proto-West Germanic *hwat, from Proto-Germanic *hwat, from Proto-Indo-European *kʷód. Alternative forms [edit]Pronunciation [edit]Pronoun [edit]what Descendants [edit]- English: what - Scots: what, whate, whit, whut, wha', quhat, quat, fat, faht, phat, fit, fut, fout, at - Yola: faade, fhaade, faad, fade, fa'de, f'ad Adverb [edit]what - Why. - 1387–1400, Geoffrey Chaucer, “The Sompners Tale”, in The Canterbury Tales, [Westminster: William Caxton, published 1478], →OCLC; republished in [William Thynne], editor, The Workes of Geffray Chaucer Newlye Printed, […], [London]: […] [Richard Grafton for] Iohn Reynes […], 1542, →OCLC: - What shulde I tel the answere of the knyght? - Why should I tell the answer of the knight? - 1641 May, John Milton, Of Reformation Touching Church-Discipline in England: And the Causes that hitherto have Hindred it. […], [London]: […] Thomas Vnderhill, →OCLC: - But what do I stand reckoning upon advantages and gains lost by the misrule and turbulency of the prelates? - Used to introduce each of two coordinate phrases or concepts; both...and... - 1485, Sir Thomas Malory, “primum”, in Le Morte Darthur, book III: - And as for on C good knyghtes I haue my self / but I fawte / l / for so many haue ben slayne in my dayes / and so Ladegreans delyuerd his doughter Gweneuer vnto Merlyn / and the table round with the C knyghtes / and so they rode fresshly with grete royalte / what by water and what by land / tyl that they came nyghe vnto london - (please add an English translation of this quotation) Descendants [edit]- Yola: fad References [edit]- “what, pron.”, in MED Online, Ann Arbor, Mich.: University of Michigan, 2007. - “what, adv. & conj.”, in MED Online, Ann Arbor, Mich.: University of Michigan, 2007. Etymology 2 [edit]Noun [edit]what - alternative form of whate Scots [edit]Etymology 1 [edit]From Middle English what, from Old English hwæt, from Proto-West Germanic *hwat. Cognates include English what and Yola faade. Alternative forms [edit]Pronunciation [edit]Pronoun [edit]what Adverb [edit]what Determiner [edit]what Etymology 2 [edit]From Middle English whetten, from Old English hwettan, from Proto-West Germanic *hwattjan. Cognates include English whet. Alternative forms [edit]Pronunciation [edit]Verb [edit]what (third-person singular simple present whats, present participle whatin, simple past and past participle whatt) - (transitive) to whet, hone, sharpen References [edit]- ↑ 1.01.1 “what, pron., adv., conj., interj.,.”, in The Dictionary of the Scots Language, Edinburgh: Scottish Language Dictionaries, 2004–present, →OCLC. - ^ “what, v., n..”, in The Dictionary of the Scots Language, Edinburgh: Scottish Language Dictionaries, 2004–present, →OCLC. Yola [edit]Etymology [edit]From Middle English whetten, from Old English hwettan, from Proto-West Germanic *hwattjan. Pronunciation [edit]Verb [edit]what - to whet - 1867, “ABOUT AN OLD SOW GOING TO BE KILLED”, in SONGS, ETC. IN THE DIALECT OF FORTH AND BARGY, number 1, page 106: - A skudhelès, lhaung roosta, wull glaude leth aam what. - The knives, that were long rusty, well-pleased let them whet. References [edit]- Jacob Poole (d. 1827) (before 1828), William Barnes, editor, A Glossary, With some Pieces of Verse, of the old Dialect of the English Colony in the Baronies of Forth and Bargy, County of Wexford, Ireland, London: J. Russell Smith, published 1867, page 78 - English terms inherited from Proto-West Germanic - English terms derived from Proto-Indo-European - English terms derived from Middle English - English terms derived from Proto-Germanic - English terms derived from the Proto-Indo-European root *kʷ- - English terms inherited from Middle English - English terms derived from Old English - English terms derived from the Proto-Indo-European word *kʷís - English terms derived from Proto-West Germanic - English terms inherited from Proto-Indo-European - English terms inherited from Proto-Germanic - English terms inherited from Old English - English semantic loans from Cantonese - English terms derived from Cantonese - Rhymes:English/ɒt - Rhymes:English/ɒt/1 syllable - English terms with homophones - English 1-syllable words - English terms with IPA pronunciation - English terms with audio pronunciation - Rhymes:English/ʌt - Rhymes:English/ʌt/1 syllable - English lemmas - English determiners - English terms with usage examples - English terms with quotations - English pronouns - English nonstandard terms - English adverbs - English uncomparable adverbs - English interjections - British English - English colloquialisms - English dated terms - English clippings - English nouns - English uncountable nouns - English countable nouns - English terms with obsolete senses - English particles - Singlish - Manglish - English interrogative determiners - English interrogative pronouns - Cantonese terms derived from English - Chinese lemmas - Cantonese lemmas - Chinese verbs - Cantonese verbs - Chinese terms with IPA pronunciation - Chinese terms written in foreign scripts - Hong Kong Cantonese - Middle English terms derived from Proto-West Germanic - Middle English terms inherited from Proto-West Germanic - Middle English terms inherited from Proto-Germanic - Middle English terms inherited from Old English - Middle English terms derived from Proto-Indo-European - Middle English terms inherited from Proto-Indo-European - Middle English terms derived from Proto-Germanic - Middle English terms derived from the Proto-Indo-European word *kʷís - Middle English terms derived from the Proto-Indo-European root *kʷ- - Middle English terms derived from Old English - Middle English terms with IPA pronunciation - Middle English lemmas - Middle English pronouns - Middle English interrogative pronouns - Middle English adverbs - Middle English terms with quotations - Middle English nouns - Scots terms derived from Proto-Germanic - Scots terms derived from Proto-Indo-European - Scots terms inherited from Middle English - Scots terms derived from Middle English - Scots terms inherited from Old English - Scots terms derived from Old English - Scots terms inherited from Proto-West Germanic - Scots terms derived from Proto-West Germanic - Scots terms with IPA pronunciation - Scots lemmas - Scots pronouns - Scots interrogative pronouns - Scots relative pronouns - Scots adverbs - Scots interrogative adverbs - Scots determiners - Scots relative determiners - Scots interrogative determiners - Scots verbs - Scots transitive verbs - Yola terms inherited from Middle English - Yola terms derived from Middle English - Yola terms inherited from Old English - Yola terms derived from Old English - Yola terms inherited from Proto-West Germanic - Yola terms derived from Proto-West Germanic - Yola terms with IPA pronunciation - Yola lemmas - Yola verbs - Yola terms with quotations
