=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Marina Abramović’s ‘Imponderabilia’ and Audience Vulnerability — HASTA]
Marina Abramovis Imponderabilia and Audience Vulnerability. The iconic Serbian performance artist Marina Abramovi constructs for audiences in her art piece. Abramovi met Frank Uwe Laysiepen the artist known as Ulay on September 20th 1975. Marina Abramovi Imponde...
URL: http://www.hasta-standrews.com/features/2024/2/20/marina-abramovis-imponderabilia-and-audience-vulnerability

[Breathing in/breathing out - Wikipedia]
Breathing In, Breathing Out is a performance piece by Marina Abramović and Ulay. It was performed twice, in Belgrade (1977) and Amsterdam (1978). [1] For this performance the two artists blocked their nostrils with cigarette filters and pressed their mouths together, so that one could not inhale anything else but the exhalation of the other.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Breathing_in/breathing_out

[Marina Abramović and Ulay Performing 'Breathing In, Breathing Out ...]
In 1976, after moving to Amsterdam, Marina Abramović met the West German performance artist Uwe Laysiepen, who went by the single name Ulay. They began living and performing together that year. When Abramović and Ulay began their collaboration, the main concepts they explored were the ego and artistic identity.
URL: https://vintagenewsdaily.com/marina-abramovic-and-ulay-performing-breathing-in-breathing-out-1977-1978/

[Subject Alternative Name not added to certificate]
On the Subject tab in the Certificate Properties, enter a suitable Common name for the Subject, if required In the Alternative names section, select Type: DNS and add the FQDNs for the desired SANs. Options for key usage and so on should be preconfigured on the other tabs.
URL: https://serverfault.com/questions/476413/subject-alternative-name-not-added-to-certificate

[Ulay - Wikipedia]
Works with Marina Abramović Marina Abramović and Uwe Laysiepen 1978 In 1975, Laysiepen, who went by the mononym Ulay, met the Serbian performance artist Marina Abramović. They began living and performing together that year. When Abramović and Ulay began their collaboration, [5] the main concepts they explored were the Ego and artistic identity.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ulay


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Marina Abramović’s ‘Imponderabilia’ and Audience Vulnerability — HASTA] ---
Marina Abramović’s ‘Imponderabilia’ and Audience Vulnerability by Natasha Long An imponderable situation cannot be definitely explained, determined, measured or evaluated. This type of situation, rooted in the unknown, is exactly what the iconic Serbian performance artist Marina Abramović constructs for audiences in her art piece ‘Imponderabilia’. On September 20th, 1975 Abramović met Frank Uwe Laysiepen, the artist known as Ulay. Described as a meeting of destiny by Abramović, the encounter launched the intense artistic and emotional relationship between the two, who collaborated on numerous performance works in the following years. ‘Imponderabilia’ is a performance piece by both artists, first realised in June 1977 in the Museum of Modern Art in Bologna. Abramović and Ulay rebuilt the entrance architecture of the museum by adding pillars which executed a new narrow entryway, and stood face to face in this space, completely naked. By engineering this restricted entrance, the public had only one option for entering the museum: squeezing between Abramović and Ulay. The space was so tight that they could not enter frontally, forcing them to confront one of the artists directly. This meant that as visitors passed through they experienced a sensorial encounter, touching the naked bodies, as the performers stared directly in each other’s eyes, as if unaware of visitor interference into their space. Conceptually, “the idea was the artist as door of the museum”, merging the corporeal and architecture, the naked body became the new opening to the building’s interior. The concept of an opening has been viewed as evoking the “natal”, the visitor was born into new territory in the museum. Crucially for this iconic work, by entering the gallery, a collaboration occurred between performer and spectator, the public activated and became a part of this work. Thus, ‘Imponderabilia’ operates on the relationship between the artist and public, the visitors share space with the performers and become the crucial component in facilitating the performance which is reliant on their participation. Significantly, the original performance was intended to be six hours long. However, after three hours the police came and shut the work down on the grounds of lack of passport documentation that could not be supplied instantaneously by Abramović and Ulay. The performance piece was considered explicit at the time of its first realisation in 1977. Perhaps this further facilitated Abramović and Ulay’s intention, to shed light on societal bodily restrictions and question artistic freedom. At the 2010 exhibition for Marina Abramović at the MoMA, New York, the piece was re-performed with four couples and aimed to demonstrate how a work that originally played out in 1977 can be as equally potent in 2010. More recently, a further testament to the work remaining pertinent in the museum was its re-performance at the Royal Academy, London, in Abramović’s retrospective that began September 23rd 2023. With Ulay’s passing in 2020 and Abramović no longer performing herself (instead having her own school for performance art, teaching the Marina Abramović Method to the next generation of performance artists), younger performers took on the role of naked figures, for one hour long rotations. Crucially, for this exhibition, there was a separate entryway to the following gallery room that could be used if the visitor did not desire to participate in the experience, creating a multiple choice scenario for audiences in the contemporary museum. The piece is thus less forceful than its first realisation in 1977. Ultimately, even if a viewer did not pass through the narrow space, the Royal Academy viewed the work as still impactful, the audience member was still prompted to consider the reasons underlying the choice they made. Significantly, upon visiting the exhibition, audience discomfort at the scenario was clear for some visitors who vocally expressed their distress and awkwardness at touching naked flesh. Thus, ‘Imponderabilia’ is significant for highlighting audience vulnerability, testing individual visitor reactions as they experience an unfamiliar scenario. Despite the nakedness of the performers rendering them exposed to visitor interference with their personal space, the audience is self-aware of their responses and their own vulnerabilities come to the fore. Abramović effectively prompts the audience to become alert to their own potential discomfort with such close proximity to the naked body. As the audience collaborates in the performance, they lose “voyeuristic powers”, taking on a new participatory role becoming embedded in the piece. They participate only fleetingly, but the simple act of traversing the art museum becomes a scene of taboo. Working with the audience is crucial to Abramović’s artistic practice. Ulay and Abramović together explored the concept of “durational co-presence” in their performances. Here, the examination of co-presence occurs between performance and also their transient interaction with each clothed visitor who slips between the naked flesh. Moreover, it has been noted that viewers are forced to choose which orientation to take, facing the male or the female, interpreted as a “gendered frontal caress, it was not possible to pass through neutrally”. Commentators have noted the heterosexual formation of the two artists, suggesting that the work becomes “queered” through the repeated interference of participants who can be anyone who chooses to take part in the experience. In ‘Imponderabilia’ Abramović tests her audience. Today, the work is no less shocking or powerful for the public than its first performance in 1977. Thus, the effect of ‘Imponderabilia’ is timeless. Each visitor hesitates with how to act, aware they cannot pass neutrally, experiencing an intimate and unfamiliar bodily encounter. Abramović has said “I cannot do anything without an audience, I need their energy”. This energy fuels ‘Imponderabilia’, which invites audiences to be bold, vulnerable and open to the imponderable. Bibliography Marina Abramović. Exhibition Catalogue. Royal Academy Publications, London: Royal Academy of Arts. 2023. “Marina Abramović and ULAY. Imponderabilia. 1977/2010”. MoMA. Marina Abramović, The Artist is Present. https://www.moma.org/audio/playlist/243/3119 Alex Marshall. “Marina Abramović Relents and Adapts a Provocative Piece for Today”. The New York Times. September 25, 2023. https://www.nytimes.com/2023/09/25/arts/design/marina-abramovic-royal-academy-imponderabilia.html “Exhibition. Marina Abramović”. Royal Academy of Arts. https://www.royalacademy.org.uk/exhibition/marina-abramovic?sourceNumber=730348


--- [Breathing in/breathing out - Wikipedia] ---
Breathing In, Breathing Out is a performance piece by Marina Abramović and Ulay. It was performed twice, in Belgrade (1977) and Amsterdam (1978). For this performance the two artists blocked their nostrils with cigarette filters and pressed their mouths together, so that one could not inhale anything else but the exhalation of the other. As the carbon dioxide filled their lungs, they began to sweat, move vehemently and wear themselves out; the viewers could sense their agony through the projected sound of breathing, which was augmented via microphones attached to their chests. It took them 19 minutes in the first performance and 15 in the second to consume all the oxygen in that one breath and reach the verge of passing out.
During the 19 minutes of the Performance at the Studenski Kulturni Centar in Belgrade, one hears the noise of their breathing in and out. Ulay commented on the Performance: "I breathe in oxygen and breathe out carbon dioxide." Abramović: "I breathe in carbon dioxide and breathe out carbon dioxide," and Ulay repeated Marina’s sentence.
The second part of the Performance took place in November of the same year at the Stedelijk Museum in Amsterdam. Here, breath as the giver of life becomes a symbol of keeping one another alive, of interdependence and of the interchange between male and female principle.


--- [Marina Abramović and Ulay Performing 'Breathing In, Breathing Out ...] ---
Breathing In, Breathing Out is a performance piece by Marina Abramović and Ulay. It was performed twice, in Belgrade (1977) and Amsterdam (1978). For this performance the two artists blocked their nostrils with cigarette filters and pressed their mouths together, so that one couldn’t inhale anything else but the exhalation of the other. As the carbon dioxide filled their lungs, they began to sweat, move vehemently and wear themselves out; the viewers could sense their agony through the projected sound of breathing, which was augmented via microphones attached to their chests. It took them 19 minutes in the first performance and 15 in the second to consume all the oxygen in that one breath and reach the verge of passing out. During the 19 minutes of the Performance at the Studenski Kulturni Centar in Belgrade, one hears the noise of their breathing in and out. Ulay commented on the Performance: “I breathe in oxygen and breathe out carbon dioxide.” Abramović: “I breathe in carbon dioxide and breathe out carbon dioxide,” and Ulay repeated Marina’s sentence. The second part of the Performance took place in November of the same year at the Stedelijk Museum in Amsterdam. Here, breath as the giver of life becomes a symbol of keeping one another alive, of interdependence and of the interchange between male and female principle. In 1976, after moving to Amsterdam, Marina Abramović met the West German performance artist Uwe Laysiepen, who went by the single name Ulay. They began living and performing together that year. When Abramović and Ulay began their collaboration, the main concepts they explored were the ego and artistic identity. They created “relation works” characterized by constant movement, change, process and “art vital”. This was the beginning of a decade of influential collaborative work. Each performer was interested in the traditions of their cultural heritage and the individual’s desire for ritual. Consequently, they decided to form a collective being called “The Other”, and spoke of themselves as parts of a “two-headed body.” They dressed and behaved like twins and created a relationship of complete trust. As they defined this phantom identity, their individual identities became less accessible. In an analysis of phantom artistic identities, Charles Green has noted that this allowed a deeper understanding of the artist as performer, for it revealed a way of “having the artistic self-made available for self-scrutiny.” The work of Abramović and Ulay tested the physical limits of the body and explored male and female principles, psychic energy, transcendental meditation and nonverbal communication. While some critics have explored the idea of a hermaphroditic state of being as a feminist statement, Abramović herself denies considering this as a conscious concept. Her body studies, she insists, have always been concerned primarily with the body as the unit of an individual, a tendency she traces to her parents’ military pasts. Rather than concerning themselves with gender ideologies, Abramović/Ulay explored extreme states of consciousness and their relationship to architectural space. They devised a series of works in which their bodies created additional spaces for audience interaction. In discussing this phase of her performance history, she has said: “The main problem in this relationship was what to do with the two artists’ egos. I had to find out how to put my ego down, as did he, to create something like a hermaphroditic state of being that we called the death self.”


--- [Subject Alternative Name not added to certificate] ---
# Subject Alternative Name not added to certificate

I'm trying to issue a new certificate using the additional attribues field within the  Windows CertSrv Web-Enrollment Client.

I added the CSR, picked the template and entered this into the attributes field:

SAN:dns=HOSTNAME&dns=HOSTNAME.DOMAIN.COM&ipaddress=IPADRESS


The request is successful but when I check the signed certificate no "Alternative Names" attribute is added to it. Am I missing something? Maybe a issue with the Template? (used a default Win 2003 level webserver template copy with some custom settings).

/edit
Also I've tried to use 

certreq -submit -attrib "CertificateTemplate:MYTEMPLATE" <Cert Request.req> -attrib "SAN:dns=HOSTNAME&dns=HOSTNAME2&ipaddress=IPADDRESS"


resulting in the same problem: cert gets generated, but without any SAN attribute.

/edit2 
also I've set the CA to issue SAN certificates using

certutil -setreg policy\EditFlags +EDITF_ATTRIBUTESUBJECTALTNAME2


and restarting the CA service. Still: no SANs.

Please note: using req. files and OpenSSL to generate the CSR i'm able to generate certifcates using the CA which have some SANs included. However this option is not valid in my current situation since I'm getting the CSR from an application and i'm not able to manually generate one for the application.

/edit3
I tried using the default webserver certificate WITHOUT any changes and suddenly it worked. So now the question is: what are the template requirements to enable SAN?



--- [Ulay - Wikipedia] ---
Frank Uwe Laysiepen (German: [fʁaŋk ˈʔuːvə laɪˈziːpm̩]; 30 November 1943 – 2 March 2020), known professionally as Ulay, was a German artist based in Amsterdam and Ljubljana, who received international recognition for his Polaroid art and collaborative performance art with longtime companion Marina Abramović.


