=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Capital Pride (Washington, D.C.) - Wikipedia]
1983 was the year the first woman and person of color was named Grand Marshal of the Gay Pride Day parade. In 1984, festival organizers began bestowing the "Heroes of Pride" award to members of racial and ethnic minorities who made a difference in their communities.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Capital_Pride_(Washington,_D.C.)

[Reflecting on Capital Pride]
Jun 21, 2020 — The Blade reported more than 150,000 attended the 40th anniversary parade in 2015. A shirtless Wilson Cruz was grand marshal. The Boy Scouts ...
URL: https://www.washingtonblade.com/2020/06/21/reflecting-on-capital-pride/

["Giving People the Courage to Be Themselves": Gay Pride Day ...]
Dec 17, 2021 · When the D.C. Council declared June 20, 1976 as Gay Pride Day, John Wilson’s opponent in the Democratic primary election that year vehemently spoke out against Wilson’s support of the measure.
URL: https://boundarystones.weta.org/2021/12/17/giving-people-courage-be-themselves-gay-pride-day-dc

[The Man Who Launched D.C. Pride]
Jun 1, 2025 — Grand Marshal Deacon Maccubbin's 1975 block party set the stage for WorldPride 2025 — and everything in between.
URL: https://www.metroweekly.com/2025/06/the-man-who-launched-d-c-pride/

[The History of Pride in DC - Washingtonian]
May 29, 2025 · The first National March on Washington for Lesbian and Gay Rights features some 100,000 participants—led by a group of lesbians of color called the Salsa Soul Sisters—marching past the White House to the National Mall and shouting, “We are everywhere!”
URL: https://www.washingtonian.com/2025/05/29/the-history-of-pride-in-dc/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Capital Pride (Washington, D.C.) - Wikipedia] ---
Capital Pride is an annual LGBT pride festival held in early June each year in Washington, D.C. It was founded as Gay Pride Day, a one-day block party and street festival, in 1975. In 1980 the P Street Festival Committee formed to take over planning. It changed its name to Gay and Lesbian Pride Day in 1981. In 1991, the event moved to the week prior to Father's Day. Financial difficulties led a new organization, One In Ten, to take over planning of the festival. Whitman-Walker Clinic (WWC) joined One In Ten as co-sponsor of the event in 1997, at which time the event's name was changed to Capital Pride.  Whitman-Walker became the sole sponsor in 2000. But the healthcare organization came under significant financial pressures, and in 2008 turned over producing duties to a new organization, Capital Pride Alliance.
The event drew 2,000 people its first year and grew to 10,000 people covering 3 blocks in 1979. By 1984, it had expanded to a week-long event and by 1987 an estimated 28,000 attendees came to the street festival and parade. Attendance began fluctuating in the late 1980s, but stabilized in the 1990s. The festival was the fourth-largest gay pride event in the United States in 2007. Capital Pride saw record attendance for its 35th anniversary celebration in 2010. An estimated 100,000 people turned out for the parade and another 250,000 for the street festival in 2012.


--- [Reflecting on Capital Pride] ---
a&e features Reflecting on Capital Pride Here’s how our celebrations evolved during ‘70s, ‘80s, ‘90s, ‘00s and ’10s Rome wasn’t built in a day and neither was Capital Pride. Here’s some context for each decade of our local celebration. The street party ‘70s Deacon Maccubbin, owner of gay bookstore Lambda Rising (which closed in 2010), started what has become Capital Pride in 1975 with a one-day community block party on 20th St., N.W. where his store was at the time. About 2,000 attended the gathering, held on Father’s Day with a dozen booths and vendors set up. Several candidates for D.C. City Council attended as well. In its heyday, Lambda Rising was a de facto gay community center of sorts and frequently hosted author readings/book signings and other LGBT events. Within a few years, the event was attracting about 10,000 and had spread out to three blocks. It was a heady time for the movement. Inspired by the Stonewall Riots of 1969 in New York City, commemoration events were burgeoning around the country and Washington had a thriving gay and lesbian scene of its own (the LGBT moniker didn’t come into wide use until much later). Several local groups were well established by this time — The Academy of Washington (founded 1961), Washington Blade (founded 1969), the Gay and Lesbian Activists Alliance (then known as the GAA, founded 1971), Metropolitan Community Church of Washington (founded 1970) and others. Early D.C. Pride events had a family-type appeal and were — as they are today — a place for various arms of the community, from drag outfits to activist groups to leather lovers and beyond, to let their gay hair down for the day. Then-Mayor Marion Barry, elected the previous November, attended his first Gay Pride Day in 1979 and continued throughout his years in office and beyond. Ups and downs of the ‘80s The P Street Festival Committee was formed in 1980 to take over Gay Pride Day, as the festival was known, and the annual event was held at Francis Junior High School at 24th and N streets, N.W. By the following year, the event had been dubbed Gay and Lesbian Pride Day and the first parade was held beginning on 16th St. N.W. and Meridian Hill Park and ending at Dupont Circle. The event grew exponentially in those years from about 11,000 in 1981 to 20,000 by 1983, though it ebbed and flowed with fewer than 10,000 attending in 1986 and 1987. Washington, like San Francisco and New York, was hit particularly hard by HIV and AIDS and the urgency and frustration of the time was well represented at the gatherings, which had expanded to a week-long event by 1984 with about 28,000 at the street festival and parade combined. The first Pride Heroes were named in 1984. Turning tide of the 1990s The P Street Festival disbanded in 1990 and Pride continued with a new entity, Pride of Washington. The event was also moved to the week before Father’s Day so as not to impede on the family holiday. By 1991, the street festival had expanded to about 200 booths and for the first time, active duty and retired American military personnel marched in the parade. Rain affected attendance several years in a row and the festival flirted with bankruptcy. In 1995, One in Ten, a D.C. organization that hosted an annual film festival, took over and moved the festival to Freedom Plaza while the parade route started at Francis Junior High School and ended at the plaza. Attendance picked up going from about 25,000 in 1994 to more than 100,000 by 1996. In 1997, Whitman-Walker Clinic, as it was then known, joined One in Ten as a co-sponsor and the event was renamed Capital Pride. Corporate sponsorships rose dramatically going from $80,000 to nearly $250,000 the following year. A new millennium, a new day In 2000, Whitman-Walker became the sole sponsor and the festival moved again, this time to Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W. between 4th and 7th streets, N.W. and the festival’s main stage was repositioned so that the U.S. Capitol building was visible in the background. By 2002, parade contingents reached 200 and in 2004, about 100,000 attended the various Pride events. Financial problems, however, continued to plague the event with the city agreeing in 2005 to waive thousands in street closing and police overtime fees while the Human Rights Campaign, agreed to an emergency donation of $30,000. Attendance, however, remained strong with about 200,000 attending in 2006 making it the fourth-largest Pride event in the U.S. Several events such as dance parties, a youth prom, a transgender event, leather pride and more were now under the overall Capital Pride umbrella. By 2007, several other local non-profits joined Whitman-Walker to form the Capital Pride Planning Committee. In March 2008, Whitman-Walker awarded the production rights to the newly formed Capital Pride Alliance, a group of volunteers and organizations formed by members of the Capital Pride Planning Committee. By 2009, the Alliance was the sole producer of the event. The tipping point ‘10s The event reached its 35th anniversary in 2010 and continued to expand its offerings with about 60 events held over a 10-day period and a record high of 250,000 attending the street festival. About 100,000 watched the 2013 parade. A color guard officially sanctioned by the U.S. Armed Forces joined the 2014 parade, an unprecedented event. The eight-member guard represented each branch of the U.S. armed forces. Numbers remained strong for the 2014 parade with about 100,000 again at the parade and about 250,000 estimated in total for the various week-long events. Rita Ora, Karmin, Bonnie McKee, Betty Who and DJ Cassidy performed. The theme was “#BuildOurBrightFuture.” Former Minnesota Vikings player Chris Kluwe, an ally, was grand marshal. The Blade reported more than 150,000 attended the 40th anniversary parade in 2015. A shirtless Wilson Cruz was grand marshal. The Boy Scouts marched for the first time. About 250,000 attended the festival the following day. Musical headliners at the festival grew in stature as Hot 99.5 became the presenter. Carly Rae Jepsen, Wilson Phillips, Amber, En Vogue and Katy Tiz performed amidst ominous skies. The theme was “Flashback.” In 2016, headliners were Melanie Martinez, Alex Newell (of “Glee”), Meghan Trainor and Charlie Puth. The theme was “Make Magic Happen!” Gay actor Leslie Jordan (“Will & Grace”) was grand marshal. In 2017, the theme was “Unapologetically Proud.” Headliners were The Pointer Sisters, Tinashe and Miley Cyrus. Marriage case plaintiff Edith Windsor was grand marshal. In 2018: Alessia Cara, Troye Sivan and MAX headlined. The theme was “Elements of Us.” Activist Judy Shepard (mother of hate crime victim Matthew) was grand marshal. In 2019: Shea Diamond, Todrick Hall, Zara Larsson, Marshmellow, Calum Scott and Nina West (of “RuPaul’s Drag Race”) headlined. Earline Budd, Brandon Wolf, Matt Easton and the cast of “Pose” were grand marshals. The theme was “shhhOUT: Past, Present & Proud” to honor the 50th anniversary of Stonewall. Several Pride events in recent years have been upended. A group of protesters from a local entity called No Justice No Pride blocked the parade route in 2017 forcing it to be re-routed and delayed. They objected to the lack of trans women of color in leadership positions within Capital Pride, lax vetting of corporate Pride sponsors and the presence of uniformed police officers at the parade. The sound of what people thought were gunshots in Dupont Circle during the 2019 parade brought the proceedings to a halt. It turned out to be a false alarm — no shots were fired. Dozens of participants didn’t get to be in the parade. And this year the coronavirus pandemic forced organizers to concede, in an unprecedented move, that there was no responsible way to have the parade and festival. Some events were held virtually. Editor’s note: Information taken from various sources such as previous Washington Blade articles, previous Capital Pride pride guide books, Capital Pride’s own history and more. a&e features From Prohibition to Pride: Queering the District podcast reveals local LGBTQ history The new podcast explores the hidden history and enduring impact of queer spaces in Washington, D.C. On June 25, as Pride month inched toward its end, three queer creators launched an ambitious project to honor the spaces that built D.C.’s LGBTQ community—and connect them to today’s queer life. The first episode of their podcast, Queering the District, hit streaming platforms that day, aiming to spotlight what host and co-creator Abby Stuckrath calls “third places”: bars, clubs, and gathering spots that have served as hubs for queer life across the city. Each episode of the 10-part series delves into a different piece of D.C.’s queer past—from landmark clubs to untold personal stories—told through the voices of drag legends, activists, DJs, historians, and patrons who lived it. The show also threads together personal experiences from today’s community, bringing the listener on an auditory journey from Prohibition-era speakeasies to contemporary nights out at places like As You Are or Saints & Sinners. Abby Stuckrath, alongside her sibling Ellie Stuckrath, and producer Mads Reagan, make up the podcast’s creative team. A recent journalism graduate of American University, Abby told the Blade that her passion for queer storytelling began during college—and that D.C. itself played a defining role in shaping her queer identity. “I went to American University. I graduated last year and studied journalism. When I was in school, I always wanted to focus on queer stories – especially in D.C., because I’m from Denver, Colorado, I’ve never lived in a place like this before. D.C. has always just kind of been a place I call home when it comes to my queer identity.” But breaking into the media to tell those stories wasn’t easy. Stuckrath quickly learned that editorial support—and funding—for queer-focused projects is limited. So she decided to do it her own way. “I kind of found out that if you want to tell stories, you kind of have to do it on your own– especially when it comes to queer stories. There’s not a lot of people begging for us to talk about queer people and to pay you for it. So I was like, ‘Okay, let’s just do it on my own.’” The idea for the podcast first took root in conversations with Ellie, Abby’s sibling and biggest supporter. Ellie had also moved to D.C. to find more space to explore and express their queer and gender identities. Together, the two began shaping a vision that would combine storytelling, sound design, and grassroots community input. “I was like, ‘I don’t know what exactly I want to do yet, but I want it to be queer, and I want it to be about D.C., and it’s going to be called Queering the District, and we’re going to find out what that means.’ And Ellie is my biggest supporter, and my best friend. And they were like, ‘Hell yeah. Like, let’s do this.’ And so we decided to just do it together.” The name stuck—and so did the mission. The team began researching queer D.C. history and found a city overflowing with stories that had rarely been documented, especially in mainstream archives. “We started looking up the history of queer culture in D.C., and it kind of just clicked from there,” Stuckrath said. “I did not know anything about how rich our history is in the city until one Google search, and then I just kept learning more and more. I was kind of pissed because I studied gender studies in school in D.C. and didn’t learn shit about this.” Season one focuses on the role of third places—non-work, non-home spaces where queer people could gather, exist fully, and build community. “Third places have always been the epicenter of queer life… places outside of just your own personal home, because sometimes that isn’t a safe place. And of course, the work most commonly in the past and still today, isn’t a safe place for queer people to be full of themselves. So like, bars were the first place for queer people to really thrive and meet each other.” To make the show participatory, Queering the District includes a twist: a voicemail line where anyone can call in and share a memory or question. The team calls the phone “Fifi”—a nod to the kind of retro guestbooks often used at weddings, but reimagined for queer nightlife and history. “We wanted to find a way for people to share their stories with us anonymously… so even though we start in Prohibition, we wanted to connect it to now—like, those people who were singing jazz to each other in a white queer bar are connected to you singing karaoke on a Sunday night at your favorite gay bar. We’re all interconnected by this third place of queer bars in D.C.” Those connections are emotional as well as historical. While building the series, one realization hit Stuckrath particularly hard: the immense loss of queer spaces in D.C., especially in neighborhoods that have since been heavily redeveloped. “Every time I go to a Nats game, I think about, well, this just replaced five gay bars that used to be here. It used to be the home of Ziegfeld’s… Tracks, which was almost 2,000 square feet, with a volleyball court in the back, a fire pit, and iconic light show. I just didn’t know that we had that, and it made me sad for the queer elders that are in our city now who walk the streets and don’t see all those places they used to call home.” That sense of loss—alongside the joy and resilience of queer community—is what the show aims to capture. As the podcast continues, Abby hopes it serves as both a celebration and an educational tool, especially for young LGBTQ people arriving in D.C. without realizing the queer foundations they’re walking on. “D.C. is a unique city, and specifically young queer people who are hoping to move to the city—to know that you’ve got to know your history to be here. I hope this serves as an easier way for you to consume and learn about queer history, because queer history defines how we move in life.” And for all the voices still left out, Abby is clear: this podcast is an open door, not a final word. “This is a perfectly imperfect podcast. We should just be a starting point. We shouldn’t be the ending point.” New episodes of Queering the District drop every Wednesday on all major platforms. a&e features Doug Spearman takes his chance ‘Noah’s Arc: The Movie’ debuted on Paramount+ last month There’s no question that when Patrik-Ian Polk’s series “Noah’s Arc” premiered on Logo 20 years ago, it was a groundbreaking creation. The story of a group of Black gay men and their wonderful friendship. The titular arc was that of the cute main character, Noah (Darryl Stephens), and his close-knit circle of friends, including Chance played by gay actor Doug Spearman. This compelling and loving fraternity may, in fact, be what brought viewers back repeatedly, including a 2008 movie, “Noah’s Arc: Jumping the Broom,” as well as the 2020 “Noah’s Arc” short, and now, a new full-length feature “Noah’s Arc: The Movie,” debuting on Paramount+ on June 20. In the movie, filled with equal measures of laughs and tears, Chance, who has faced a devastating loss, finds his dependable friends there, ready to support and comfort him at a moment’s notice. I had the pleasure of speaking with Spearman the morning of the streaming premiere of “Noah’s Arc: The Movie.” WASHINGTON BLADE: Doug, since the early 2000s, when the “Noah’s Arc” series premiered on Logo, you have been playing the character of Chance, including in the latest installment, “Noah’s Arc: The Movie.” What was it about Chance that appealed to you as an actor? SPEARMAN: When Patrik (-Ian Polk) called me to ask me to play him (Chance), I was at JFK airport in the baggage claim, waiting for a suitcase. He explained what the part was. The thing that stuck out to me was the fact that Chance was in a long-term relationship with another Black man. And, they had a child; they had a 4-year-old daughter named Kenya. I had never seen two Black gay men raise a child on TV before. I thought it was the most revolutionary thing I’d ever seen. I immediately thought I’ve got to do this because that was something nobody had seen. I thought it was incredibly important to take the part. BLADE: “Noah’s Arc: The Movie” was, once again, written and directed by Patrik-Ian Polk, who you just mentioned, is the creator of the entire franchise. What’s the secret to your long-standing working relationship? SPEARMAN: [Laughs] the whole team, all of us, are like a band of brothers. We fight like brothers, we come together like brothers, we hash things out, we talk, because we’re all very different from our characters. I think the challenge of playing these guys and then uplifting these men, playing a part, especially something written by Patrik, is like solving a math equation. There’s always a challenge that’s enjoyable for me as an actor: to try to find out what it is that Patrik wants, and then how do I do it. BLADE: I think you do a very good job of it. SPEARMAN: Thank you very much BLADE: In the years between “Jumping the Broom” and the new full-length movie, many changes have occurred, and the story addresses some of them, including gay widowhood, which is something that the aging community is now confronting, as well as mental health issues. Please say a few words about how you approached those subjects in the new movie. SPEARMAN: I had a lot of loss in my life, right before we started shooting. Two months before we started shooting the first series, my mother died. I was going through the grief process through that whole first season. Since then, I’ve lost a lot of people in my life. In fact, when we started shooting the second season, the second week we were shooting, my ex died of a heart attack. I was having to fold that into what I was doing with my life on the set and off the set. You’ve got to show up and you’ve got to do your work. The first two seasons of “Noah’s Arc” are always tinged with the memory of grief. So, when I had to deal with the death that Chance faces (in the new movie), which is a significant death in his life, it wasn’t that hard to reach back, especially the scene in the graveyard. It was something that I unfortunately could pull from personal experience. BLADE: Shifting gears, the movie features delightful cast surprises, including Jasmine Guy and TS Madison. Did you have a chance to interact with either or both when they were on set? SPEARMAN: No, I didn’t have any scenes with Jasmine, and I missed her. I wish I had gotten to see her because I actually got to direct Jasmine for a CBS promo shoot for “Queen,” back in the early ‘90s. I had a huge crush on her when she was on “A Different World.” So, I really would have liked to reconnect. But TS and I got to see each other every day because I was in all her scenes. It was extraordinary being around somebody like that. That is one outspoken woman! BLADE: Even though Beyoncé never makes an appearance in the movie, there’s a lot of talk about her. Would you say you are a Beyoncé fan? SPEARMAN: Yes! I’m breathing! Yes, I’m a Beyoncé fan. I actually got the chance to meet her. I knew her mom. Her mom was extraordinary to me. She is in the second movie I directed. She also gave us a wedding gown to use in the very first scene of the movie. That family is extraordinarily important to me. Not only just to be a fan, but to be somebody who’s gotten to know them and work with them and see how hard they work. I don’t think anybody works as hard as Tina or Beyoncé. BLADE: There was a recent news item about gay actor Benito Skinner of the Amazon Prime series “Overcompensating” being told not to bother auditioning for straight roles. As an out actor yourself, how important do you think it is for queer characters to be portrayed by queer actors, and vice versa? SPEARMAN: Being queer is a multifaceted identity. There’s no one kind of queer person. I think finding the best actor that’s your first circle of casting. I think one of the joys about being an actor is that you get to play different parts. I play straight guys all the time. Dads and husbands and things like that. I think a lot of people are told not to do it. In fact, I wouldn’t be Chance if the actor who was originally cast as Chance hadn’t been pulled out of the series by his agents because they didn’t want him to play a gay character. BLADE: That’s amazing! Thank you for sharing that. Without giving away too much, the ending of the movie is a little ambiguous, even ending with a question mark. If there was a “Noah’s Arc: The Movie” sequel, would you come back for that? SPEARMAN: Yeah! A lot of it would depend on what Chance’s journey is going to be like. Patrik and I have conversations like that all the time. He’s very interested and supportive of input. I hope I would be, as we all would be, part of the creative growth with these characters. They live in Patrik’s head, and he writes them, but we’re the ones who have to flesh them out. It’s a conversation, it’s always a conversation. BLADE: You are currently performing in Molière’s “The Imaginary Invalid” as part of the New Orleans Shakespeare Festival at Tulane. What has this experience been like for you? SPEARMAN: It’s extraordinary! I started on stage when I was seven. There’s nothing like working with a live audience and having that immediacy. I’m working with an extraordinarily talented cast in a really great play, and I have some of the best scene partners I could ever want. BLADE: Are there any upcoming film or TV projects you’d like to mention? SPEARMAN: I’m still a writer, and I’m still a director, and I’ve still got scripts that I would like to make. I have a little something that’s a cross between “Treme” and “Bridgerton” that I want to do. I’m always trying to figure out what the next thing is. a&e features Visit Cambridge, a ‘beautiful secret’ on Maryland’s Eastern Shore New organization promotes town’s welcoming vibe, LGBTQ inclusion CAMBRIDGE, Md. — Driving through this scenic, historic town on Maryland’s Eastern Shore, you’ll be charmed by streets lined with unique shops, restaurants, and beautifully restored Victorian homes. You’ll also be struck by the number of LGBTQ Pride flags flying throughout the town. The flags are a reassuring signal that everyone is welcome here, despite the town’s location in ruby red Dorchester County, which voted for Donald Trump over Kamala Harris by a lopsided margin. But don’t let that deter you from visiting. A new organization, Proudly Cambridge, is holding its debut Pride event this weekend, touting the town’s welcoming, inclusive culture. “We stumbled on a beautiful secret and we wanted to help get the word out,” said James Lumalcuri of the effort to create Proudly Cambridge. The organization celebrates diversity, enhances public spaces, and seeks to uplift all that Cambridge has to share, according to its mission statement, under the tagline “You Belong Here.” The group has so far held informal movie nights and a picnic and garden party; the launch party is June 28 at the Cambridge Yacht Club, which will feature a Pride celebration and tea dance. The event’s 75 tickets sold out quickly and proceeds benefit DoCo Pride. “Tickets went faster than we imagined and we’re bummed we can’t welcome everyone who wanted to come,” Lumalcuri said, adding that organizers plan to make “Cheers on the Choptank” an annual event with added capacity next year. One of the group’s first projects was to distribute free Pride flags to anyone who requested one and the result is a visually striking display of a large number of flags flying all over town. Up next: Proudly Cambridge plans to roll out a program offering affirming businesses rainbow crab stickers to show their inclusiveness and LGBTQ support. The group also wants to engage with potential visitors and homebuyers. “We want to spread the word outside of Cambridge — in D.C. and Baltimore — who don’t know about Cambridge,” Lumalcuri said. “We want them to come and know we are a safe haven. You can exist here and feel comfortable and supported by neighbors in a way that we didn’t anticipate when we moved here.” Lumalcuri, 53, a federal government employee, and his husband, Lou Cardenas, 62, a Realtor, purchased a Victorian house in Cambridge in 2021 and embarked on an extensive renovation. The couple also owns a home in Adams Morgan in D.C. “We saw the opportunity here and wanted to share it with others,” Cardenas said. “There’s lots of housing inventory in the $300-400,000 range … we’re not here to gentrify people out of town because a lot of these homes are just empty and need to be fixed up and we’re happy to be a part of that.” Lumalcuri was talking with friends one Sunday last year at the gazebo (affectionately known as the “gayzebo” by locals) at the Yacht Club and the idea for Proudly Cambridge was born. The founding board members are Lumalcuri, Corey van Vlymen, Brian Orjuela, Lauren Mross, and Caleb Holland. The group is currently working toward forming a 501(c)3. “We need visibility and support for those who need it,” Mross said. “We started making lists of what we wanted to do and the five of us ran with it. We started meeting weekly and solidified what we wanted to do.” Mross, 50, a brand strategist and web designer, moved to Cambridge from Atlanta with her wife three years ago. They knew they wanted to be near the water and farther north and began researching their options when they discovered Cambridge. “I had not heard of Cambridge but the location seemed perfect,” she said. “I pointed on a map and said this is where we’re going to move.” The couple packed up, bought a camper trailer and parked it in different campsites but kept coming back to Cambridge. “I didn’t know how right it was until we moved here,” she said. “It’s the most welcoming place … there’s an energy vortex here – how did so many cool, progressive people end up in one place?” Corey van Vlymen and his husband live in D.C. and were looking for a second home. They considered Lost River, W.Va., but decided they preferred to be on the water. “We looked at a map on both sides of the bay and came to Cambridge on a Saturday and bought a house that day,” said van Vlymen, 39, a senior scientist at Booz Allen Hamilton. They’ve owned in Cambridge for two years. They were drawn to Cambridge due to its location on the water, the affordable housing inventory, and its proximity to D.C.; it’s about an hour and 20 minutes away. Now, through the work of Proudly Cambridge, they hope to highlight the town’s many attributes to residents and visitors alike. “Something we all agree on is there’s a perception problem for Cambridge and a lack of awareness,” van Vlymen said. “If you tell someone you’re going to Cambridge, chances are they think, ‘England or Massachusetts?’” He cited the affordability and the opportunity to save older, historic homes as a big draw for buyers. “It’s all about celebrating all the things that make Cambridge great,” Mross added. “Our monthly social events are joyful and celebratory.” A recent game night drew about 70 people. She noted that the goal is not to gentrify the town and push longtime residents out, but to uplift all the people who are already there while welcoming new visitors and future residents. They also noted that Proudly Cambridge does not seek to supplant existing Pride-focused organizations. Dorchester County Pride organizes countywide Pride events and Delmarva Pride was held in nearby Easton two weeks ago. “We celebrate all diversity but are gay powered and gay led,” Mross noted. To learn more about Proudly Cambridge, visit the group on Facebook and Instagram. What to see and do Cambridge, located 13 miles up the Choptank River from the Chesapeake Bay, has a population of roughly 15,000. It was settled in 1684 and named for the English university town in 1686. It is home to the Harriet Tubman Museum, mural, and monument. Its proximity to the Blackwater National Wildlife Refuge makes it a popular stop for birders, drawn to more than 27,000 acres of marshland dubbed “the Everglades of the north.” The refuge is walkable, bikeable, and driveable, making it an accessible attraction for all. There are kayaking and biking tours through Blackwater Adventures (blackwateradventuresmd.com). Back in town, take a stroll along the water and through historic downtown and admire the architecture. Take in the striking Harriet Tubman mural (424 Race St.). Shop in the many local boutiques, and don’t miss the gay-owned Shorelife Home and Gifts (421 Race St.), filled with stylish coastal décor items. Stop for breakfast or lunch at Black Water Bakery (429 Race St.), which offers a full compliment of coffee drinks along with a build-your-own mimosa bar and a full menu of creative cocktails. The Cambridge Yacht Club (1 Mill St.) is always bustling but you need to be a member to get in. Snapper’s on the water is temporarily closed for renovations. RaR Brewing (rarbrewing.com) is popular for craft beers served in an 80-year-old former pool hall and bowling alley. The menu offers burgers, wings, and other bar fare. For dinner or wine, don’t miss the fantastic Vintage 414 (414 Race St.), which offers lunch, dinner, wine tasting events, specialty foods, and a large selection of wines. The homemade cheddar crackers, inventive flatbreads, and creative desserts (citrus olive oil cake, carrot cake trifle) were a hit on a recent visit. Also nearby is Ava’s (305 High St.), a regional chain offering outstanding Italian dishes, pizzas, and more. For something off the beaten path, visit Emily’s Produce (22143 Church Creek Rd.) for its nursery, produce, and prepared meals. “Ten minutes into the sticks there’s a place called Emily’s Produce, where you can pay $5 and walk through a field and pick sunflowers, blueberries, you can feed the goats … and they have great food,” van Vlymen said. As for accommodations, there’s the Hyatt Regency Chesapeake Bay (100 Heron Blvd. at Route 50), a resort complex with golf course, spa, and marina. Otherwise, check out Airbnb and VRBO for short-term rentals closer to downtown. Its proximity to D.C. and Baltimore makes Cambridge an ideal weekend getaway. The large LGBTQ population is welcoming and they are happy to talk up their town and show you around. “There’s a closeness among the neighbors that I wasn’t feeling in D.C.,” Lumalcuri said. “We look after each other.” - Federal Government3 days ago Treasury Department has a gay secretary but LGBTQ staff are under siege - Virginia4 days ago Defying trends, new LGBTQ center opens in rural Winchester, Va. - District of Columbia3 days ago Gay GOP group hosts Ernst, 3 House members — all of whom oppose Equality Act - District of Columbia3 days ago D.C. police seek public’s help in July 5 murder of trans woman


--- ["Giving People the Courage to Be Themselves": Gay Pride Day ...] ---
"Giving People the Courage to Be Themselves": Gay Pride Day in D.C. Gay rights activist Larry “Deacon” Maccubbin was at a party with friends in 1975 when the topic of New York Pride eventually came up. As they were discussing who would be going, one of his friends asked why their own city, Washington, D.C., didn’t have a similar event ─ it was the nation’s capital, after all. The idea stuck in Maccubin’s head.[1] In the mid 1970s, Washington, D.C. had a robust, albeit segregated, gay scene. Popular locales for Black gays included the Nob Hill Restaurant and social clubs like the Best of Washington.[2] White gays frequented places like the Georgetown Grill, the Lost and Found, and the DC Eagle. In prior years, there had not been many run-ins with the police, but suddenly officers began asking to see identification at the Georgetown Grill and harassing gay customers. Craig Howell, president of the Gay Activists’ Alliance from 1973-74 recounted, “One policeman had been coming in repeatedly asking for various licenses...about a week or so ago this took an ugly turn when the policeman brought in some of his buddies and did the usual harassment, and then afterwards they stayed outside the grill when it closed down and started harassing patrons by asking them for identification.” The police also raided the Cinema Follies movie theatre and the Club Bathhouse around that same time.[3] Despite the occasional issues with law enforcement, gay and lesbian Washingtonians in the ’70s were making themselves more and more visible. In 1972, the Gay Liberation Front of D.C. had coordinated a Gay Pride Week under the leadership of Chuck Hall, Bruce Pennington, and Cade Ware.[4] The keynote event was a rally in Lafayette Park where about 50 men and women were “calling for more public displays of affection by homosexuals.” Even though Gay Pride Week was a one-time occurrence, Maccubbin’s event would turn into so much more.[5] Shortly after that fateful party in early 1975, Maccubbin contacted his friend Bob Carpenter, a former president of the Gay Activists’ Alliance, to see if he wanted to coordinate a new gay pride event in D.C. Since he was out of a job at the time, Carpenter agreed to help, and the two got to work planning a block party that they decided to call “Gay Pride Day.”[6] The logical spot for the event was in front of the Lambda Rising bookstore on 20th St., N.W., in the Dupont Circle neighborhood. It was the District’s first bookstore dedicated to selling gay and lesbian literature, and Macubbin was the owner. The date was set to June 22 ─ partly to commemorate the store’s first anniversary and also to accommodate D.C. gays who wanted to go to New York Pride later in the month. Before they could plan too much, however, the organizers needed the approval of over half of the business owners and residents on the block. Maccubbin and his partner Jim Bennett took around a petition, and every single owner and resident except for one signed without hesitation.[7] That was when they knew Gay Pride Day would be happening. Several days before Gay Pride Day, Bruce Pennington went on the Friends Radio Program to discuss the upcoming celebration. When asked about why such an event was needed, Pennington responded, “I think it’s interesting that the last time there was a Gay Pride observance was in ’72 when it was a week of gay pride... and in the three years ensuing there’s been no gay pride observance, and now here in ’75 there’s a day. Over three years, it’s boiled down from a week to a day. In those three years, there’s been considerable achievements and contributions won by the gay community, particularly in the civil liberties and human rights area. The gay people who live in the District of Columbia now are assured the right to live under complete and full legal protection under the law, and that’s the main thing Gay Pride is going to celebrate.”[8] When early afternoon on Saturday June 22 rolled around, Carpenter was worried. It was 1pm, which was when the party was supposed to start, yet only about 10 or 12 people were there in front of the bookstore. He expressed this concern to Maccubbin, who replied, “Don’t worry. They’re all on gay time. They’ll be here.” Sure enough, about an hour later there were almost 1,000 people in the street.[9] An even balance of men and women showed up to Gay Pride Day, although unlike at Pride events today, they were dressed in simple, comfortable clothes. Most donned shorts with t-shirts or tank tops and were excited simply to be amongst others like them. Throughout the afternoon, they learned about gay organizations at the information booths participants set up, listened to live music from performers including lesbian singer Casse Culver, and enjoyed food and refreshments while socializing.[10] Standing next to Maccubbin and Frank Kameny, Ward 2 Councilman John Wilson, a strong advocate for gay rights, read an official proclamation from the D.C. City Council, which proclaimed June 22 as Gay Pride Day.[11] Neighbors including Louise Hamilton, who lived next door to Lambda Rising, watched the party from their homes. When reporters asked for her thoughts on the festivities, Hamilton exclaimed, “Lord, I’m loving it. It’s just wonderful. They’re having such a good time, and I’m so happy.”[12] Attendees enjoyed all that the block party had to offer, but many still had to be careful. Despite Craig Howell’s claim that gay people had full legal protection in Washington, D.C., there were no laws at the time that prevented workplaces from firing employees based on sexual orientation, so plenty of people at Gay Pride Day were not publicly out. For the safety of closeted Pride goers, coordinators made sure the news media knew where they were allowed to take photos. They also let the crowd know to stand on a certain side of the street if they wished to be photographed or move to the other if they didn’t.[13] D.C.’s first Gay Pride Day was one to remember, especially for Maccubbin. When reflecting on what it was like to see his vision become a reality, he said, “You get such a charge. It’s like going to an amusement park, like taking a rollercoaster ride. We got such a charge out of seeing so many people having such a wonderful time dancing in the streets, music going.” He also understood the significance of the event as the start of a yearly tradition. “People were just ecstatic. It was giving people courage to be themselves. Just to be themselves. That’s when we knew we had to do an annual thing. No question.”[14] The following year when late June rolled around, Lambda Rising hired Frank Akers, a staff member of the Blade, to coordinate the second annual Gay Pride Day just three weeks before the party. Akers got in touch with Woman Sound for speakers and other sound equipment in addition to finalizing the other plans. On June 20, 1976, around 5,000 people showed up outside the bookstore, and once more, folks sipped on cold sodas and beer and danced to live music.[15] Attendees also partook in coin toss contests by the D.C.’s Gay Activists’ Alliance, bought balloons to support the Gay Men’s Counselling Collective, and contributed to other fundraisers held by the various organizations that had booths set up.[16] However, not everyone was pleased to see the Gay Pride Day event return. When the D.C. Council declared June 20, 1976 as Gay Pride Day, John Wilson’s opponent in the Democratic primary election that year vehemently spoke out against Wilson’s support of the measure. Leroy Washington called Wilson “an embarrassment to the city for introducing a Council resolution allowing Gay Pride Day to fall on Father’s Day.” In response, Maccubbin announced to the attendees that the Council’s proclamation led one of Wilson’s supporters to withdraw their $3,000 contribution to his reelection campaign. To help him out, Maccubbin encouraged people to donate to the Councilman’s campaign right then and there as Kameny waded into the crowd to collect the money, which added up to $400.[17] There were others who expressed their qualms with Gay Pride Day in print. In a column of the Washington Star, William Stahr of Baltimore argued, “It is contradictory because homosexuals feel self-disgust, not pride. It is self-defeating because it is an admission that homosexuals are not proud of themselves and must be prodded into a bolder stance….And it is outrageously anti-social because the encouragement of homosexuality weakens society by undermining the family.” Alongside Stahr’s opinion, however, the newspaper included Roy L. Sikes’, which simply stated, “June 20 has come and gone and the fathers of the city seem to be none the worse for it.”[18] By the end of the afternoon, Akers reported to the Blade that he felt like that year’s Gay Pride Day “was a success spiritually, if not financially.” His efforts didn’t bring in enough money to offset the cost of putting the event together, but he and other organizers talked about having an even bigger block party the following year.[19] Gay Pride Day did grow substantially over the next few years. It also underwent a change in leadership in 1980 when Maccubbin and Lambda Rising handed off the coordination of the event to P Street Festival, a nonprofit organization created that year. Under the leadership of Board Chairman Clint Hockenberry, the location was moved to Francis Park on 23rd Street and N Street, N.W., and the group added a parade the following year. The annual celebration continued to expand and in 1997, got a new name: Capital Pride. Now a month-long series of events, sponsored by the Capital Pride Alliance, Inc., it attracts hundreds of thousands of celebrants each year.[20] Quite an outcome for a dinner party conversation! Footnotes - ^ Jimmy Alexander, interview with Deacon Maccubbin and Jim Bennett, Out with Jimmy Alexander, podcast audio, June 30, 2020. https://www.owltail.com/podcast/UVQ5q-Out-with-Jimmy-Alexander/episodes. - ^ Louis Berger, “Historic Context Statement for Washington’s LGBTQ Resources,” District of Columbia Office of Planning, September 2019, 60-63, https://planning.dc.gov/sites/default/files/dc/sites/op/publication/att…. - ^ “Craig Russell interview,” Rainbow History Project Digital Collections, accessed October 22, 2021, https://archives.rainbowhistory.org/items/show/272. - ^ Rob Berger, “Remembering the modest origins of D.C. Pride,” Washington Blade, June 19, 2020, https://www.washingtonblade.com/2020/06/19/remembering-modest-origins-o…. - ^ Paul Hodge, “Open Display of Affection Asked by Gay Liberation,” Washington Post, May 6, 1972, B2. - ^ Jonathan Padget, “A Brief History of (D.C.) Activism 30 Years of the GLAA,” Metro Weekly, April 12, 2001, http://www.glaa.org/archive/2001/mw30yearsofglaa0412.shtml. - ^ Jimmy Alexander, interview with Deacon Maccubbin and Jim Bennett. - ^ “Gay activism,” Rainbow History Project Digital Collections, accessed October 22, 2021, https://archives.rainbowhistory.org/items/show/228. - ^ Jimmy Alexander, interview with Deacon Maccubbin and Jim Bennett. - ^ “D.C. Celebrates Gay Pride Day ’75,” Gay Blade, July 1975, 1. - ^ “June 22 In Washington, D.C. is: Gay Pride Day.” - ^ Jimmy Alexander, interview with Deacon Maccubbin and Jim Bennett. - ^ Ibid. - ^ Ibid. - ^ “Gay Pride ’76 Brings Big Turnout” Gay Blade, July 1976, 1-2. - ^ Ibid. - ^ Ibid. - ^ “‘Gay Pride Day’ (4 Views),” Washington Star, June 27, 1976, 22. - ^ Ibid. - ^ “History,” Capital Pride, accessed October 19, 2021, http://www1.capitalpride.org/about-us/history.


--- [The Man Who Launched D.C. Pride] ---
The last time WorldPride was celebrated in the United States was in New York City in 2019, marking the 50th anniversary of the Stonewall Riots, June 1969. For D.C., hosting WorldPride in 2025, a half-century celebration remains the theme. In Washington’s case, however, it’s marking the five decades since the city’s first official Pride celebration — Gay Pride Day, June 22, 1975. In light of Covid, new global conflicts, and a renewed right-wing lurch at the top of American politics, that 2019 WorldPride might seem a world away. The Before Times. It makes Deacon Maccubbin’s tales of D.C.’s first Pride all the more uplifting, providing a perspective of years, not election cycles, illuminating Martin Luther King Jr.’s promise of the “arc of justice” bending over time. But it’s not as though this year’s WorldPride Parade Grand Marshal, along with Laverne Cox and Reneé Rapp, is trying to be overly earnest. After all, he does love to throw a good party. “Some friends of mine and I were sitting around having a party one night at my place, and we were talking about going to New York for Pride, because that’s what we did then,” recalls Maccubbin. “And somebody said, ‘It’s great to go to New York. We love doing it, but why don’t we do something here in D.C. instead? Have a party here?’ And I thought that’s a wonderful idea.” That’s really all it took. As the owner of two shops on 20 Street NW just north of Dupont Circle, a “head shop” called Earthworks, and Lambda Rising, which would evolve to exist for decades on Connecticut Avenue as a bookstore and community core, Maccubbin knew how to invest and nurture. He also had his experiences from New York’s Pride events to pull from. There were also insights from a more organic Gay Liberation Front event that occurred in the meantime. “It was a gathering, one fairly small gathering, maybe a hundred people in Lafayette Square in… I’m going to say ’73,” Maccubbin says of the GLF-led event, specifically citing leadership by his friend Bruce Pennington. “[Bruce] went by the name of Aurora Borealis at the time and was very flamboyant and very active. Someone I had great admiration for. But it was a gathering. Well, Gay Liberation Front was always a protest, wherever it was. Being a proud member of the GLF at the time, it was definitely a protest. But more like a ‘fairy princess’ protest.” A protest, but not Pride. For that, Maccubbin and his friends would need signatures, executing D.C.’s first Gay Pride as a block party. And for that, you needed a majority of the affected residents to sign off in support (only one neighbor declined to sign). The city was supportive to the point of an official declaration marking Gay Pride Day. On that sunny Saturday, the crowds came and Maccubbin recalls telling the TV news crews where they could and could not shoot. The Pride organizers ran the concessions exclusively to ensure they would be able to avoid charging any admission. City Councilmember John Wilson made an appearance. There was no counterdemonstration. It went off without a hitch. “It was definitely a home run,” says Maccubbin of D.C.’s first Pride day. “We didn’t know whether 20 people would show up — but 2,000 people showed up! It was a huge success. Before the sun went down, I knew we’d do it again. We were already starting to plan the next year. There were so many people, and you could see it in their faces, their smiles and their joy to be in a crowd of people like themselves. It was just wonderful.” So, in 1976, D.C. held a bigger Gay Pride Day, and then bigger still in 1977. The growth was so steady that Gay Pride Day had to be more than a block party, and it soon moved. And it kept moving, kept growing, kept evolving over the years. Today, however, there’s plenty that Maccubbin says does not change, wherever Pride may be, whatever the time or place. “No matter how big it is, no matter where it is, every time there’s a Pride held anywhere, there are new people who have never been to Pride before,” he says. “It’s liberating for them. They walk away with a smile on their face. They’re having a great time. Those are moments that will change their life for the better. It’s hard to express how important that is in the grand scheme of things. And it’s not a time to hide. It’s definitely not a time to hide. We all need to stand up and be counted. Don’t be fearful. No matter what the politics of the day are, don’t be fearful. Stand up, be counted. Be out there and march. And if you’re marching with me, I’d love to shake your hand.” Celebrate Pride year-round with Capital Pride’s Pride365 app. Visit www.worldpridedc.org/pride-365-app. This article originally appeared in The Official 2025 WorldPride Guide. Reprinted with permission. These are challenging times for news organizations. And yet it’s crucial we stay active and provide vital resources and information to both our local readers and the world. So won’t you please take a moment and consider supporting Metro Weekly with a membership? For as little as $5 a month, you can help ensure Metro Weekly magazine and MetroWeekly.com remain free, viable resources as we provide the best, most diverse, culturally-resonant LGBTQ coverage in both the D.C. region and around the world. Memberships come with exclusive perks and discounts, your own personal digital delivery of each week’s magazine (and an archive), access to our Member's Lounge when it launches this fall, and exclusive members-only items like Metro Weekly Membership Mugs and Tote Bags! Check out all our membership levels here and please join us today!


--- [The History of Pride in DC - Washingtonian] ---
Fifty years ago this June, Washington hosted its first official Pride. Held in front of the gay-and-lesbian bookstore Lambda Rising, the event was both celebration and statement. In a photo from the day, the store’s founder holds a DC Council “Gay Pride Day” proclamation while a council member looks on. Standing nearby is legendary activist Frank Kameny, a Harvard-trained astronomer whose lifelong crusade began when he was fired from his federal job for being gay. In the nation’s capital, neither politics nor culture sits downstream from the other. The two swirl and flow together, through a government that reflects the country and shapes it. Among the queerest of American cities culturally, DC is also the epicenter of so many battles over LGBTQ+ rights. While Senator Joseph McCarthy was ranting about “perverts” in the State Department, gay Black men found safety at the Nob Hill bar just a few miles away. While President Reagan struggled to say “gay” in his rare statements on the AIDS crisis, locals kicked off the beloved annual High Heel Race. While President Trump promised to end Kennedy Center “drag shows targeting our youth,” protesters marched in gender-fluid, Technicolor style. Our city has been home to the Lavender Scare and America’s first known drag queen; police assaults on gay men and ACT UP protests at the White House; transgender military-service bans and Congresswoman Sarah McBride, the first openly trans House member. We embody the contradictions and conflicts—and the change. As the world joins us to celebrate a half century of Pride, it’s time to look back on where we’ve been, the better to see where we might go next. - 1896 An Unspeakable Offense In March 1896, the US attorney general for DC weighed in on a clemency petition for a prisoner sentenced to 300 days in jail, nominally for running a brothel: “While the charge of keeping a disorderly house does not on its face differ from other cases in which milder sentences have been imposed, the prisoner was in fact convicted of one of the most horrible and disgusting offences known to the law; an offence so disgusting that it is unnamed.” This unspeakable offense was almost certainly drag. The prisoner, William Dorsey Swann, born into slavery in Hancock, Maryland, was a host of drag balls, attended by a large, mixed-race community of men in DC. “They nearly all had on low neck and short sleeve silk dresses, several of them with trains,” wrote the Washington Critic in 1887, describing an earlier police raid on a ball attended by Swann. Another article called Swann a ball’s “queen,” an epithet he also adopted, becoming history’s first self-described drag queen. Once, according to author Channing Joseph, Swann was said to have charged at the police in defense of his community—an act later echoed at New York City’s Stonewall Inn and in other times and places. Swann held a strong public reputation through multiple arrests. His clemency petition (below), ultimately rejected by President Grover Cleveland, was signed by 30 supporters and described him as a “hard-working and industrious man” employed by General William Dudley, an important official in post–Civil War Washington. Swann’s dual existence would be familiar to many queer Washingtonians before and since—particularly drag artists, who have long ping-ponged between acceptance and backlash. At the time of Swann’s parties, drag—loosely defined as a theatrical performance of a gender one wasn’t born into—was shifting from a popular vaudeville act to an art form enjoyed by well-heeled straight audiences, particularly during the “pansy craze” of the 1920s and ’30s. The Jewel Box Revue, an integrated all-drag troupe that traveled the world in the 1940s and ’50s, at one point did a stint at the upscale DC dinner theater Casino Royal. Local artists hung on through police crackdowns on gay men in the 1950s, and by the 1960s and ’70s, there was a thriving scene of drag houses and regular balls. During the AIDS crisis, the community supported the afflicted; by the 1990s, DC was hosting some 40 shows weekly. As drag again faces backlash, artists may take courage from Swann’s story. - December 7, 1910 A statue of Prussian general Friedrich Wilhelm von Steuben is unveiled in Lafayette Park, a longtime cruising ground for the city’s gay men. Believed to have been gay, von Steuben fought with the Americans in the Revolutionary War. That same year, DC also erects a statue of Casimir Pulaski, a Polish Revolutionary War general believed to have been intersex. - 1920s–’30s At 1461 S Street, NW, poet, playwright, and anti-lynching activist Georgia Douglas Johnson hosts Saturday-night salons for many of the queer Black luminaries of the Harlem Renaissance, including Langston Hughes, Angelina Weld Grimké, Richard Bruce Nugent, and Alain Locke. - 1950 The Lavender Scare In February 1950, Senator Joseph McCarthy bragged about having a list of Communists working for the State Department—two of them gay men. That same month, a State Department official told the Senate that he had recently fired 91 employees for being gay. The official rationale was that gays were a “security risk” and vulnerable to blackmail. But there was also clear revulsion—gays were seen as limp-wristed, contrary to nature and God, somehow just wrong. Republican senator Kenneth Wherry asked, “Can you think of a person who could be more dangerous to the United States of America than a pervert?” Politicians looking for easy scapegoats whipped this prejudice into a mass witch hunt, with Wherry co-leading an investigation to root out gays in government and President Eisenhower signing a 1953 executive order that barred anyone with “sexual perversions” from federal employment. Aided by his deputy Roy Cohn and FBI head J. Edgar Hoover, McCarthy launched an anti-gay purge whose effects are still felt today. (Notably, all three men were themselves dogged by gay rumors. Cohn, an ineffectively closeted gay man, would later die of AIDS.) Although “security risk” firings petered out over time, Eisenhower’s ban wasn’t officially lifted until the 1990s. At least 5,000 queer people, mostly gay men, lost their jobs, and an unknown number were unable to serve in the first place. Being fired as a “security risk” also meant being outed to the broader community, sometimes with shattering results: Some targeted federal workers lost their families, while others committed suicide. In a twist McCarthy never dreamed of, the purge fed directly into the birth of the modern gay-rights movement. Frank Kameny, a military veteran and Harvard PhD in astronomy who was hired in 1957 by the Army Map Service, lost his job following accusations of homosexual behavior. Refusing to depart in shame, he appealed his firing and took his case to the Supreme Court, which declined to hear it. Kameny then founded the DC branch of the Mattachine Society, which in 1965 organized the first gay-rights protest in District history. Ten men and women—including Lilli Vincenz, cofounder of the newspaper that became the Washington Blade—marched in front of the White House, demanding the end of the federal ban. The protests spread to other cities, and Kameny became one of the most respected gay activists in the country. Many of his goals—including an end to anti-sodomy laws and the removal of homosexuality from the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, or DSM—took years to achieve. But his defiance laid the groundwork for a more tolerant future. - 1953 Nob Hill, one of the longest-operating gay bars in the country (today the site of Wonderland Ballroom) opens. Initially a private social club that will become a bar in 1957 and stay in business until 2004, it mostly serves African American men, including Howard University students. - Fall 1961 According to the Rainbow History Project, Alan Kress, a drag queen performing under the name Liz Taylor, organizes the country’s first annually scheduled drag competition, the Academy Awards of Washington. The Academy—as it will become known after Hollywood’s Academy Awards threatens to sue—later uses its fundraising clout to support drag artists affected by the AIDS crisis. - 1970s This Bold House Many DC group-house residents have believed they would change the world—but the Furies Collective, based at 219 11th Street, Southeast, from 1971 to ’72, actually did. One of many communal-living experiments in 1970s Washington, the Furies were a group of 12 lesbian feminists, all radicals with extensive organizing backgrounds, plus three children and a cat named Baby Jesus. They shared everything, slept on an assemblage of mattresses on the floor, led political-theory workshops, taught mechanics classes to women, and published a regular newspaper, the Furies, which was sold at women’s bookstores across the country. “We are committed to ending all oppressions by attacking their roots—male supremacy,” they wrote in the first issue. At the time, the nascent feminist movement wasn’t welcoming to queer women. National Organization for Woman president Betty Friedan referred to a “lavender menace,” and some feared that associating with lesbians would undermine the movement’s credibility by making feminists look like “man-haters.” In protest, a group called the Radicalesbians led a brief hijacking of the NOW-led Second Congress to Unite Women in 1970, wearing T-shirts that read “Lavender Menace” and demanding that NOW embrace lesbians. Rita Mae Brown, who later became a bestselling novelist and author of the lesbian classic Rubyfruit Jungle, was one of the protest’s architects and a key figure in the Furies Collective. While the Furies lasted only 18 months before splintering, their influence endures. Members became academics, writers, political organizers, and publishers. The ideas advanced in their magazine remain relevant, from the proper role of men (and, for some modern-day radical feminists, transgender women) in women’s spaces to the relationship of feminism to broader social struggles around sexuality, gender, race, and class. Perhaps most important, the group showed queer women that it was possible not only to dream of a better world but also to create one together. As Brown wrote in her memoir, the collective “alerted other gay women to the shattering knowledge that they weren’t alone.” - June 22, 1975 Deacon Maccubin, founder of Lambda Rising bookstore in Dupont Circle, holds DC’s first annual Pride event, the Gay Pride Party, inspired by the parades in New York City that followed the Stonewall riots of 1969. - 1978 Whitman-Walker Clinic—an LGBTQ+ health nonprofit named for queer poet Walt Whitman and Dr. Mary Edwards Walker, a 19th-century abolitionist and surgeon who preferred male attire—is incorporated. Whitman-Walker will later be on the front line of the HIV/AIDS epidemic in DC, providing services including testing, treatment, housing, and legal help. - October 14, 1979 The first National March on Washington for Lesbian and Gay Rights features some 100,000 participants—led by a group of lesbians of color called the Salsa Soul Sisters—marching past the White House to the National Mall and shouting, “We are everywhere!” Three more marches will be held in 1987 (when the AIDS Memorial Quilt is first exhibited on the Mall), 1993, and 2000. - 1980s Resting in Power While many gays in the military were forcibly outed, Leonard Matlovich, an Air Force technical sergeant and Purple Heart recipient, was the first one known to out himself in protest—working in collaboration with the American Civil Liberties Union and activist Frank Kameny and, in 1975, appearing on the cover of Time magazine. During the legal battle over his ensuing discharge, Matlovich lived across from the historic Congressional Cemetery in Southeast DC and was pleased to learn that Peter Doyle, believed to be Walt Whitman’s lover, was buried there. (So was Alain Locke, the gay “dean of the Harlem Renaissance,” who frequented Georgia Douglas Johnson’s salons.) Matlovich bought a double plot in the cemetery a few feet away from the graves of J. Edgar Hoover and his longtime deputy and rumored lover, Clyde Tolson. “It was kind of a middle finger to Hoover,” the cemetery’s president, Paul Williams, told the Washington Post in 2021. Matlovich died of AIDS in 1988, having designed his own Congressional Cemetery headstone in a final gesture of defiance. The text reads, “When I was in the military they gave me a medal for killing two men and a discharge for loving one,” next to two pink triangles, one upside-down: the Nazi symbol for homosexuals, reappropriated in its inverted form as a symbol of queer resistance. Over time, Matlovich’s grave has become a pilgrimage site: Couples have married there, and a number of other prominent LGBTQ+ figures, including seminal lesbian activists Barbara Gittings and Kay Lahusen, are buried nearby in what’s now known as the “gay corner”—right next to Hoover and Tolson. A memorial tribute to Kameny sits near Matlovich’s grave, inscribed with the slogan “Gay is Good.” - October 31, 1986 JR’s Bar and Grill in Dupont Circle holds the first-ever High Heel Race, with 25 drag queens racing to Annie’s Paramount Steakhouse and back. In 1991, the race is canceled after neighbors complain. The community gathers anyway, and police make arrests and beat them with nightsticks. The race has only grown since then, and it’s now a major annual event sponsored by the city. - 1991 The first issue of Riot Grrrl, a punk zine that will help kick off a queer-friendly feminist movement, is published by a team of women working out of a group house in Mount Pleasant. - 1992 Acting Up ACT UP (AIDS Coalition to Unleash Power) protesters threw ashes of loved ones who had died of AIDS over the White House fence in an effort to draw attention to the continued plight of AIDS patients. “If you won’t come to the funeral,” one demonstrator said about President George H.W. Bush, “we’ll bring the funeral to you.” - 1993 President Clinton signs into law “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell,” allowing gays and lesbians to serve in the armed forces, provided they don’t display “a propensity or intent to engage in homosexual acts.” Three years later, he signs the Defense of Marriage Act, defining marriage as existing between a man and a woman. The two laws are eventually defeated in 2011 and 2013. - August 7, 1995 When Tyra Hunter, a Black trans woman, gets into a car accident in Southeast DC, paramedics on the scene ignore and mock her, failing to provide treatment that could save her life. Hunter’s death ignites protests and a closer attention to how emergency-service workers respond to transgender patients. - December 15, 1997 Republican David Catania is sworn in as the DC Council’s first openly gay member. He later leaves the Republican Party over its attempt to amend the Constitution to ban gay marriage. - 2015 Freed Love On June 26, 2015, the Supreme Court’s decision in the case of Obergefell v. Hodges officially legalized same-sex marriage in the United States—catching the nation up to DC, where it had been legal since late 2009. Under rainbow flags and balloons, queer couples and their families and supporters cheered, wept, and kissed on the steps of the court, while that night President Obama illuminated the White House in rainbow colors. Across the Washington area and elsewhere, couples who in some cases had been together for decades and sometimes shared children or even grandchildren were finally free to exercise a right that had long been unthinkable. - June 30, 2016 The Pentagon allows transgender people to serve openly in the military. Bree Fram (left), an Air Force officer working in the Pentagon, comes out as trans the same day. President Trump will reverse the policy in 2019; Biden will reinstate it in 2021; Trump will reverse it yet again in 2025. - 2016 Phase One, DC’s longest-running lesbian bar, closes its doors during a time when gentrification and rising costs have caused many LGBTQ+ establishments to shutter. Open since 1970, Phase One was the final survivor of the “Gay Way,” a strip on Eighth Street, Southeast, that was near the Furies Collective house and had been home to numerous gay and lesbian bars since the late 1960s. - June 1, 2024 Bailey Anne becomes the first-ever transgender Miss Maryland USA and only the second transgender contestant in the Miss USA competition. - 2025 Marching Onward LGBTQ+ groups concerned over the Trump administration’s attacks on drag artists—and queer people generally—staged a “March for Drag” that culminated at the Kennedy Center. “This evening as we walk down the streets of our capital city, we are walking in the footsteps of our queer ancestors who fought tooth and nail for every right that we have ever attained,” said drag activist Sister Sybil Liberties. This article appears in the June 2025 issue of Washingtonian.
