=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Wangechi Mutu at Salon 94 New York - Artmap.com]
Opening on Sunday, May 21, 2006, "Exhuming Gluttony: A Lover's Requiem," is an installation that re-imagines the idea of the banquet. Wangechi Mutu has taken the notion of the salon and the white cube gallery and hacked into it a beastly feast.
URL: https://artmap.com/salon94/exhibition/wangechi-mutu-2006

[Wangechi Mutu on Art, Life & Everything In Between - Phaidon]
Yet Mutu refused to limit herself to wall works. In her 2006 installation Exhuming Gluttony: A Lover's Requiem - created in collaboration with the Ghanaian-British architect David Adjaye - she combined animal pelts with wood, wine bottles, packing tape and blankets to create a rich, fetid, decadent, carnal, almost overwhelming installation.
URL: https://www.phaidon.com/en-us/blogs/stories/art-life-wangechi-mutu

[Art in Review; Wangechi Mutu - The New York Times]
These offer a foretaste of "Exhuming Gluttony: A Lover's Requiem," Ms. Mutu's over-the-top installation, a collaboration with the British architect David Adjaye, at Salon 94 on East 94th Street in ...
URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2006/06/09/arts/art-in-review-wangechi-mutu.html

[Wangechi Mutu Salon 94 New York - 1995-2015.undo.net]
Exhuming Gluttony: A Lover's Requiem. In collaboration with British architect David Adjaye. Creating a room filled with the tropes and smells of entitlement and over-consumption, Mutu uses her weeping wine bottles and bullet-ridden walls to frame the uncomfortable romance between wealth and waste, affluence and mass poverty.
URL: https://1995-2015.undo.net/it/mostra/38962

[Dive Into The Work Of NY-Based Artist Wangechi Mutu]
A fixture of the New York art scene since the 1990s, Mutu notably gained acclaim for the 2006 installation entitled Exhuming Gluttony: A Lover's Requiem. Developed with architect David Adjaye, the piece consisted of transforming the Upper East Side townhouse of gallery Salon 94 into a subterranean dinner party.
URL: https://luxesource.com/article/wangechi-mutu-monograph-new-york


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Wangechi Mutu at Salon 94 New York - Artmap.com] ---
Wangechi Mutu 21 May - 07 Jul 2006 WANGECHI MUTU Exhuming Gluttony: A Lover’s Requiem May 21 Through July 7, 2006 Salon 94 is pleased to present an exhibition by artist Wangechi Mutu in collaboration with British architect David Adjaye. Opening on Sunday, May 21, 2006, “Exhuming Gluttony: A Lover’s Requiem,” is an installation that re-imagines the idea of the banquet. Wangechi Mutu has taken the notion of the salon and the white cube gallery and hacked into it a beastly feast. Creating a succulent room filled with the tropes and smells of entitlement and over-consumption, Mutu uses her weeping wine bottles and bullet-ridden walls to frame the uncomfortable romance between wealth and waste, affluence and mass poverty. Within the space, Mutu fashions a romantic feast of exaggerated forms and icons, where sacrifice and opulence are on grotesque display. In the center of the room, for example, is an enormous banquet table, made from a single wood slab supported by a forest of wooden legs cut at various lengths. In front of this crippled table is a trophy sculpture made up of various animal pelts. A diaphanous curtain haunted by a tumorous image oversees the space, where food, wine, and conversation would be flowing. This installation invokes the same demons and worlds that Mutu's latest collages on Mylar conjure. Her languorous warriors posed in contentment and exhaustion will have a concurrent exhibition downtown at Sikkema Jenkins and Co. Born in Nairobi, Kenya, Wangechi Mutu lives and works in New York. She is one of thirteen artists in the SITE Santa Fe Biennial curated by Klaus Ottoman and has shown at the Whitney Museum, the Aldrich Museum, P.S. 1 in New York, and SFMOMA in San Francisco. She is represented by Sikkema Jenkins and Co. in New York and Susanne Vielmetter in Los Angeles. David Adjaye, born in Tanzania, is recognized as one of the leading architects of his generation in the UK, He designed the Nobel Peace Center in Oslo, Norway and recently exhibited “Making Public Buildings” at the Whitechapel Art Gallery in London. Exhuming Gluttony: A Lover’s Requiem May 21 Through July 7, 2006 Salon 94 is pleased to present an exhibition by artist Wangechi Mutu in collaboration with British architect David Adjaye. Opening on Sunday, May 21, 2006, “Exhuming Gluttony: A Lover’s Requiem,” is an installation that re-imagines the idea of the banquet. Wangechi Mutu has taken the notion of the salon and the white cube gallery and hacked into it a beastly feast. Creating a succulent room filled with the tropes and smells of entitlement and over-consumption, Mutu uses her weeping wine bottles and bullet-ridden walls to frame the uncomfortable romance between wealth and waste, affluence and mass poverty. Within the space, Mutu fashions a romantic feast of exaggerated forms and icons, where sacrifice and opulence are on grotesque display. In the center of the room, for example, is an enormous banquet table, made from a single wood slab supported by a forest of wooden legs cut at various lengths. In front of this crippled table is a trophy sculpture made up of various animal pelts. A diaphanous curtain haunted by a tumorous image oversees the space, where food, wine, and conversation would be flowing. This installation invokes the same demons and worlds that Mutu's latest collages on Mylar conjure. Her languorous warriors posed in contentment and exhaustion will have a concurrent exhibition downtown at Sikkema Jenkins and Co. Born in Nairobi, Kenya, Wangechi Mutu lives and works in New York. She is one of thirteen artists in the SITE Santa Fe Biennial curated by Klaus Ottoman and has shown at the Whitney Museum, the Aldrich Museum, P.S. 1 in New York, and SFMOMA in San Francisco. She is represented by Sikkema Jenkins and Co. in New York and Susanne Vielmetter in Los Angeles. David Adjaye, born in Tanzania, is recognized as one of the leading architects of his generation in the UK, He designed the Nobel Peace Center in Oslo, Norway and recently exhibited “Making Public Buildings” at the Whitechapel Art Gallery in London.


--- [Wangechi Mutu on Art, Life & Everything In Between - Phaidon] ---
No content


--- [Art in Review; Wangechi Mutu - The New York Times] ---
Supported by Art in Review; Wangechi Mutu An Alien Eye: And Other Killah Anthems Sikkema Jenkins & Company 530 West 22nd Street, Chelsea Through June 17 The multitalented artist Wangechi Mutu has a few too many options under consideration, with mixed results. Her large collage-ink paintings on Mylar, depicting bejeweled and befeathered African beauties with gorgeously mottled complexions and strange faces cavorting among tall, serpentine grasses, have become technically overwrought. Their evocation of the objectification of the wild and exotic other is approaching the kinky seductiveness of the fashion spreads that are among the things they seek to indict. Two sculptures involving antique chairs on improvised stilts and upended wine bottles dripping wine and trimmed with fur are dully generic. These offer a foretaste of "Exhuming Gluttony: A Lover's Requiem," Ms. Mutu's over-the-top installation, a collaboration with the British architect David Adjaye, at Salon 94 on East 94th Street in Manhattan. Incorporating many more dripping, fur-lined wine bottles, animal skins and an enormous raw-wood table with scores of legs, the piece is a cross between a morgue, a massacre, a tannery and a banquet hall. It brings the excess and color of Ms. Mutu's Mylar paintings into real space, which is an accomplishment, but like many elaborate artists' projects and installations these days, its main message seems to be: I built this because I can. In contrast, "Black Star Knight," an installation piece at Sikkema Jenkins, is restrained in the extreme: a black wall that appears to have been shot full of holes counters this violence by also evoking a galaxy of luminous stars. A similar restraint is visible in a series of small collages of non-Western women, also at Sikkema Jenkins, in which Ms. Mutu dissects and recombines pornographic images and ethnographic postcards with surgical precision and fiercely angry results. ROBERTA SMITH Related Content Advertisement


--- [Wangechi Mutu Salon 94 New York - 1995-2015.undo.net] ---
Exhuming Gluttony: A Lover's Requiem. In collaboration with British architect David Adjaye. Creating a room filled with the tropes and smells of entitlement and over-consumption, Mutu uses her weeping wine bottles and bullet-ridden walls to frame the uncomfortable romance between wealth and waste, affluence and mass poverty. Salon 94 is pleased to present an exhibition by artist Wangechi Mutu in collaboration with British architect David Adjaye. Opening on Sunday, May 21, 2006, “Exhuming Gluttony: A Lover’s Requiem," is an installation that re-imagines the idea of the banquet. Wangechi Mutu has taken the notion of the salon and the white cube gallery and hacked into it a beastly feast. Creating a succulent room filled with the tropes and smells of entitlement and over-consumption, Mutu uses her weeping wine bottles and bullet-ridden walls to frame the uncomfortable romance between wealth and waste, affluence and mass poverty. Within the space, Mutu fashions a romantic feast of exaggerated forms and icons, where sacrifice and opulence are on grotesque display. In the center of the room, for example, is an enormous banquet table, made from a single wood slab supported by a forest of wooden legs cut at various lengths. In front of this crippled table is a trophy sculpture made up of various animal pelts. A diaphanous curtain haunted by a tumorous image oversees the space, where food, wine, and conversation would be flowing. This installation invokes the same demons and worlds that Mutu's latest collages on Mylar conjure. Her languorous warriors posed in contentment and exhaustion will have a concurrent exhibition downtown at Sikkema Jenkins and Co. Born in Nairobi, Kenya, Wangechi Mutu lives and works in New York. She is one of thirteen artists in the SITE Santa Fe Biennial curated by Klaus Ottoman and has shown at the Whitney Museum, the Aldrich Museum, P.S. 1 in New York, and SFMOMA in San Francisco. She is represented by Sikkema Jenkins and Co. in New York and Susanne Vielmetter in Los Angeles. David Adjaye, born in Tanzania, is recognized as one of the leading architects of his generation in the UK, He designed the Nobel Peace Center in Oslo, Norway and recently exhibited “Making Public Buildings" at the Whitechapel Art Gallery in London. Salon 94 12 East 94th Street New York, NY 10128 Monday - Thursday 11am - 6pm


--- [Dive Into The Work Of NY-Based Artist Wangechi Mutu] ---
Dive Into The Work Of An Artist Shaking The NY Scene Since The 90s Phaidon’s newly released, in-depth monograph on the multidisciplinary practice of New York-based Kenyan artist Wangechi Mutu is full of thought-provoking visuals and critique. Throughout a prolific career defined as both an African Futurist and Afrofuturist artist, Mutu’s use of collage, painting, immersive installation, live and video performance has allowed her to subvert recognizable imagery in critical transfigurations that address gender, race and colonialization. A fixture of the New York art scene since the 1990s, Mutu notably gained acclaim for the 2006 installation entitled Exhuming Gluttony: A Lover’s Requiem. Developed with architect David Adjaye, the piece consisted of transforming the Upper East Side townhouse of gallery Salon 94 into a subterranean dinner party. Her work has since been featured at London’s Victoria Miro Gallery, the Metropolitan Museum of Art, the Centre Georges Pompidou in Paris and at the 56th Venice Biennale, among many other prominent institutions and events.
