=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[The Australian: Department did not verify Hillsong references ...]
The church's charitable arm, Hillsong Emerge, has been stripped of a $414,479 federal grant after claims that it obtained the funds by deceiving the Aboriginal community that was supposed to benefit from it.
URL: https://www.kooriweb.org/foley/news/2000s/2006/aust15feb06.html

[Hillsong Church]
In 2006, Hillsong were stripped of A$414,000 from the grant on the grounds they had faked the Indigenous endorsement that was required to obtain it.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hillsong_Church

[Department did not verify Hillsong references]
The church's charitable arm, Hillsong Emerge, has been stripped of a $414,479 federal grant after claims that it obtained the funds by deceiving the Aboriginal community that was supposed to benefit from it.
URL: https://staging.culteducation.com/group/971-hillsong-church/9706-department-did-not-verify-hillsong-references.html

[Hillsong Church | PDF | Religion & Spirituality]
... 2006, Hillsong were stripped of A$414,000 from the grant on the grounds they had faked the Indigenous endorsement that was required to obtain it.[129]
URL: https://www.scribd.com/document/691143629/Hillsong-Church

[Markus denies Hillsong aided grant - The Sydney Morning Herald]
The church's charitable arm, Hillsong Emerge, was stripped of a $414,479 federal grant, amid claims it obtained the funds by deceiving the Aboriginal community that was supposed to be the beneficiary.
URL: https://www.smh.com.au/national/markus-denies-hillsong-aided-grant-20060330-gdn9pf.html


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [The Australian: Department did not verify Hillsong references ...] ---
Department did not verify Hillsong referencesFebruary 15, 2006A FEDERAL department failed to check whether an Aboriginal group, named by the Hillsong church in a grant application, supported the project. Hillsong Emerge first applied for a grant of almost $500,000 with the support of the Riverstone Aboriginal Community Association, in Sydney's northwestern suburbs. It withdrew the application and submitted a second, which led to its being granted $414,479 in August last year - a grant announced by John Howard. But the second grant application used letters of support and ideas from RACA, allegedly without the permission of the indigenous body. Attorney-General's Department assistant secretary Dianne Heriot told a Senate estimates hearing yesterday that the department looked for evidence of local partnerships with indigenous groups. But asked by Labor senator Trish Crossin whether the reference letters were verified in some way, Dr Heriot said: "We accept the letters, Senator." Dr Heriot said other checks were undertaken on the eligibility of the organisation, the nature of the project, local need and previous applications for funding. The hearing was told the department became aware of problems with the grant application through gossip, and asked for a meeting with Hillsong and its partners in the project. A meeting in October revealed that RACA was disenchanted with the project, and the next month NSW state Labor MP Ian West claimed in parliament that Hillsong Emerge misused the Riverstone Aboriginal community to get taxpayers' money for its own purposes. When Hillsong Emerge did not reply to two letters from the department in December and January querying whether the project could be delivered, a decision was made to withdraw the grant on February 1. RACA spokeswoman Vilma Ryan said the events in federal parliament showed Hillsong Emerge "can't be trusted to work with indigenous communities". "The federal Government needs to explain why it never checked up on statements made in the Hillsong Emerge application. "We call on Hillsong Emerge to come clean on this whole matter. Come on, Hillsong Emerge. What's the story? Are you big enough to apologise?" A spokeswoman for Hillsong did not return calls. AAP, Ean Higgins |


--- [Hillsong Church] ---
Hillsong Church, commonly known as Hillsong, is a charismatic Christian megachurch and a Christian association of churches based in Australia. The original church was established in Baulkham Hills, New South Wales, as Hills Christian Life Centre by Brian Houston and his wife, Bobbie Houston, in 1983. Hillsong was a member of the Australian Christian Churches – the Australian branch of the US-based Assemblies of God – until 2018, when it separated to form a new denomination. The church is known for its contemporary worship music, with groups such as Hillsong Worship, Hillsong United and Hillsong Young & Free with many musical credits and hits charting all over the world.
Hillsong and its music have been highly successful globally, with its presence described as a global corporate brand. However, a series of scandals and criticisms have negatively affected its image in recent years. In March 2022, Houston stepped down as global senior pastor after an internal investigation found that he had breached the church's moral code of conduct for pastors by engaging in inappropriate behaviour with women on two occasions in the 2010s. In February 2023, Phil and Lucinda Dooley, who had been acting in the position since January 2022, took over as global senior pastors.


--- [Department did not verify Hillsong references] ---
Department did not verify Hillsong references The Australian/February 15, 2006 By Ean Higgins A federal department failed to check whether an Aboriginal group, named by the Hillsong church in a grant application, supported the project. The church's charitable arm, Hillsong Emerge, has been stripped of a $414,479 federal grant after claims that it obtained the funds by deceiving the Aboriginal community that was supposed to benefit from it. Hillsong Emerge first applied for a grant of almost $500,000 with the support of the Riverstone Aboriginal Community Association, in Sydney's northwestern suburbs. It withdrew the application and submitted a second, which led to its being granted $414,479 in August last year - a grant announced by John Howard. But the second grant application used letters of support and ideas from RACA, allegedly without the permission of the indigenous body. Attorney-General's Department assistant secretary Dianne Heriot told a Senate estimates hearing yesterday that the department looked for evidence of local partnerships with indigenous groups. But asked by Labor senator Trish Crossin whether the reference letters were verified in some way, Dr Heriot said: "We accept the letters, Senator." Dr Heriot said other checks were undertaken on the eligibility of the organisation, the nature of the project, local need and previous applications for funding. The hearing was told the department became aware of problems with the grant application through gossip, and asked for a meeting with Hillsong and its partners in the project. A meeting in October revealed that RACA was disenchanted with the project, and the next month NSW state Labor MP Ian West claimed in parliament that Hillsong Emerge misused the Riverstone Aboriginal community to get taxpayers' money for its own purposes. When Hillsong Emerge did not reply to two letters from the department in December and January querying whether the project could be delivered, a decision was made to withdraw the grant on February 1. RACA spokeswoman Vilma Ryan said the events in federal parliament showed Hillsong Emerge "can't be trusted to work with indigenous communities". "The federal Government needs to explain why it never checked up on statements made in the Hillsong Emerge application. "We call on Hillsong Emerge to come clean on this whole matter. Come on, Hillsong Emerge. What's the story? Are you big enough to apologise?" A spokeswoman for Hillsong did not return calls. To see more documents/articles regarding this group/organization/subject click here.


--- [Hillsong Church | PDF | Religion & Spirituality] ---
Frank Houston Abuse Case and Compensation Hillsong Church is a charismatic Christian megachurch established in Australia in 1983 by Brian and Bobbie Houston. It has grown to over 150,000 members across 30 countries. Hillsong is known for its contemporary worship music performed by groups like Hillsong Worship, Hillsong United, and Hillsong Young & Free. In 2022, Brian Houston stepped down as global senior pastor after an investigation found he had breached the church's code of conduct through inappropriate behavior with women. Phil and Lucinda Dooley then took over as senior global pastors. Frank Houston Abuse Case and Compensation


--- [Markus denies Hillsong aided grant - The Sydney Morning Herald] ---
This was published 19 years ago Markus denies Hillsong aided grant Liberal MP and Hillsong church member Louise Markus has strongly rejected claims she helped the church get approval for a grant, which it was later stripped of. The church's charitable arm, Hillsong Emerge, was stripped of a $414,479 federal grant, amid claims it obtained the funds by deceiving the Aboriginal community that was supposed to be the beneficiary. Hillsong Emerge first applied for a grant of almost $500,000 with the support of the Riverstone Aboriginal Community Association (RACA) in Sydney's north-western suburbs. It withdrew the application and submitted a second, which led to it being granted $414,479 in August last year - a grant announced by Prime Minister John Howard. But the second grant application used letters of support and ideas from RACA, allegedly without the indigenous body's permission. Earlier, Labor senator Steve Hutchins questioned the involvement of Ms Markus in getting the application through the office of Justice Minister Chris Ellison. Ms Markus strongly denied those claims. "Comments alleging that I had somehow corrupted the process of government ... and that I ensured Hillsong Emerge ... received national crime prevention program funding are plainly defamatory," she told parliament. "I had no undue influence over the passage of this application." Labor lost the seat of Greenway - in Sydney's outer north-west where Hillsong has its congregational stronghold - to Ms Markus at the last federal election. She said Labor was resorting to ugly personal attacks because it was struggling to come up with any meaningful policies. "Once more, those members of the Australian Labor Party in western Sydney, who resent the choice made by the people of Greenway at the last election, resorted to gutter politics and unsubstantiated attacks," Ms Markus said.
