=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Germany reportedly moving toward a split buy of Super Hornets, Growlers and Eurofighter Typhoons to replace Tornado jets]
WASHINGTON — The German air force will reportedly buy up to 90 Eurofighters, 30 F/A-18E/F Super Hornets and 15 EA-18G Growlers to replace the remainder of its Panavia Tornado fighter jet fleet, but the split procurement doesn’t offer an ...
URL: https://www.defensenews.com/global/europe/2020/03/26/germany-reportedly-moving-toward-a-split-buy-of-super-hornets-and-eurofighter-typhoons-to-replace-tornado-jets/

[German Defense Minister Makes Tornado Replacement Plans Official - Defense Security Monitor]
The Eurofighter Typhoon purchase will feature 55 units slated to replace the Tornado, plus 38 additional Typhoons covered under the Quadriga Project meant to phase out older Tranche 1 Eurofighters in the German Air Force fleet with newer models. The Super Hornets will be used in the nuclear-delivery role currently charged to the Tornado fleet.
URL: https://dsm.forecastinternational.com/2020/04/22/german-defense-minister-makes-tornado-replacement-plans-official/

[Nukes Drive Germany's Plan To Replace Tornados With Typhoons, Super Hornets, and Growlers]
Germany is reportedly getting close to settling on split purchase of Eurofighter Typhoons and Boeing F/A-18E/F Super Hornets and EA-18G Growlers to replace its aging fleet of Panavia Tornado swing-wing combat jets. A key driving factor behind the compromise proposal is the need for the German Air Force to have an aircraft that could deliver American nuclear gravity bombs under a NATO agreement ...
URL: https://www.twz.com/32768/nukes-drive-germanys-plan-to-replace-tornados-with-typhoons-super-hornets-and-growlers

[Germany Set To Replace Tornado Jets With Mixed Eurofighter and Super Hornet Fleet - The Aviationist]
Mar 26, 2020 · The 45 F/A-18s could include a mix of approximately 30 F/A-18E/F Super Hornets and 15 E/A-18G Growlers, blocking this way a purchase of the new Eurofighter ECR variant.
URL: https://theaviationist.com/2020/03/26/germany-set-to-replace-tornado-jets-with-mixed-eurofighter-and-super-hornet-fleet/

[Boeing F/A-18E/F Super Hornet - Wikipedia]
In April 2020, Germany's defense secretary announced a replacement plan for a split purchase of 30 Super Hornets, 15 EA-18Gs and 55 Typhoons. However, the Defense Ministry states this is not finalized and it is being debated.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Boeing_F/A-18E/F_Super_Hornet


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Germany reportedly moving toward a split buy of Super Hornets, Growlers and Eurofighter Typhoons to replace Tornado jets] ---
WASHINGTON — The German air force will reportedly buy up to 90 Eurofighters, 30 F/A-18E/F Super Hornets and 15 EA-18G Growlers to replace the remainder of its Panavia Tornado fighter jet fleet, but the split procurement doesn’t offer an easy answer for Germany’s requirement to field a nuclear-capable jet, a U.K. defense think tank said. Germany plans to use the Super Hornet, made by U.S. aerospace company Boeing, to fill a NATO requirement to field fighter aircraft capable of dropping the B61 nuclear gravity bomb, according to German business publication Handelsblatt, which first reported the split buy. It will also buy Growlers to replace the Tornados that carry out an electronic attack role. RELATED However, only the legacy F/A-18 Hornet — not the Super Hornet — was ever certified to carry the B61, wrote Justin Bronk, a research fellow with the Royal United Services Institute, a U.K. based thinktank that covers defense issues. That means that the Super Hornet will have to go through the certification process, said Bronk, who called the split buy “the worst of all previously mooted outcomes.” Boeing spokesman Justin Gibbons said that while the Super Hornet is not yet certified to carry the B61, the company has the U.S. government’s support for future integration. “The F/A-18 Super Hornet is capable of being certified to meet B61 requirements for Germany under its timeline. Boeing has a proven track record of successfully integrating weapons systems that meet the needs of both U.S. and international customers,” he said. Gibbons declined to comment on the timing of Germany’s deadline for competitive reasons. Germany has agonized over replacing the Tornado for years, and both political and industrial factors have helped sway the government’s stance on its next tranche of fighters. In 2017, Lt. Gen. Karl Muellner, then the country’s air force chief, expressed a preference for Lockheed Martin’s F-35, but he was later fired reportedly for his outspoken support for the U.S. jet and Germany officially knocked the F-35 out of the competition last year. This left the race down to either the Eurofighter Typhoon, which is made by a consortium led by Germany’s Airbus, Italy’s Leonardo and the U.K.’s BAE Systems, or Boeing’s F/A-18E/F Super Hornet. The Typhoon received strong political support, with Airbus making the case that another batch of Eurofighters for Germany could help the European defense industry bridge the gap between the Typhoon and the sixth-generation Future Combat Air System. Historically, Germany has kept a portion of its Tornado fleet configured to use U.S. nuclear bombs as part of a NATO nuclear-sharing agreement. In the case of a major war with Russia, German pilots would be able to load their jets with nuclear weapons, take off and drop them on behalf of NATO. In late 2019, reports indicated that the pendulum was swinging toward a German buy of Super Hornets based on information from the U.S. government stating it would take three to five years longer to certify the Eurofighter for nuclear missions. Bronk noted that while the Eurofighter offers greater power, lift and agility compared to the Super Hornet, it could be more politically difficult and time-consuming to certify the Typhoon as the Eurofighter consortium would have to hand over some technical details over the to the U.S. government and U.S. defense contractors to integrate it with the B61. However, “neither Eurofighter nor Super Hornet are a credible delivery system for the B61 against Russian targets due to the vulnerability of both platforms to modern Russian air defenses,” he wrote. The F-35 is not yet capable of carrying the B61, but integrating the joint strike fighter with the bomb is planned as part of the jet’s ongoing Block 4 modernization phase. However, Bronk said buying the F-35 represented the best chance to fielding an nuclear capable jet on a fast timeline. “If the DCA [dual capable aircraft] role is considered to require actual operational credibility from Germany, then the only feasible choice is the F-35A. Of all the potential aircraft on offer, the F-35A is the only one which represents an operationally credible B61 Mod 12 delivery solution. It will also be operated by all other European DCA members, offering shared training and maintenance burdens,” he said. Valerie Insinna is Defense News' air warfare reporter. She previously worked the Navy/congressional beats for Defense Daily, which followed almost three years as a staff writer for National Defense Magazine. Prior to that, she worked as an editorial assistant for the Tokyo Shimbun’s Washington bureau.


--- [German Defense Minister Makes Tornado Replacement Plans Official - Defense Security Monitor] ---
No content


--- [Nukes Drive Germany's Plan To Replace Tornados With Typhoons, Super Hornets, and Growlers] ---
Germany is reportedly getting close to settling on split purchase of Eurofighter Typhoons and Boeing F/A-18E/F Super Hornets and EA-18G Growlers to replace its aging fleet of Panavia Tornado swing-wing combat jets. A key driving factor behind the compromise proposal is the need for the German Air Force to have an aircraft that could deliver American nuclear gravity bombs under a NATO agreement. It has become increasingly clear that the process for getting the Super Hornets certified to carry these weapons is significantly less complex than doing the same for the Typhoon. German media outlets first reported on the plan on Mar. 26, 2020, which German Defense Minister Annegret Kramp-Karrenbauer has not yet formally approved. Under the proposal, Germany could purchase a total of up to 90 Typhoons and 30 F/A-18E/Fs and 15 EA-18Gs in the coming years. Of the 90 Typhoons, half would go toward replacing the Tornados while the other half would replace the oldest Eurofighters now in German service. At present, the German Air Force has around 93 Tornados and 141 Typhoons in inventory. Germany has been struggling through plans to replace the Tornados since at least 2017. What was then West Germany received the first of these jets in 1979. German officials want to begin acquiring replacement aircraft starting 2025 to ensure that there is no loss of capability when the last of the Tornados leave service in 2030. The availability rates of the Tornados have already plummeted in recent years. Germany reportedly withdrew the small number of jets it had deployed in Jordan to conduct unarmed reconnaissance missions in support of coalition operations against ISIS terrorists in Iraq, though it’s unclear if that was a result of the low readiness of the fleet overall. The German government had considered acquiring F-35 Joint Strike Fighters, but later decided that the Typhoon, which it already operates, was the preferred option. The issue then became about whether these aircraft would be able to fulfill Germany’s obligations under the NATO nuclear weapons sharing agreement. That deal means U.S. B61 nuclear gravity bombs are stored at Büchel Air Base in Germany, as well as bases in certain other NATO countries, and American authorities could release the bombs for use by German pilots in a crisis. The Tornado is certified to carry these weapons and tests have been conducted already to support the integration of the newest B61-12 variant onto those aircraft. Neither Typhoon nor Super Hornet is certified to carry any variant of the B61. The U.S. Navy removed nuclear weapons from its aircraft carriers in the 1990s, which led to the elimination of the requirement for the Super Hornet, an aircraft that first entered service in 2001, to carry these weapons. A spokesman for Airbus, one of the major parties in the Eurofighter consortium that builds these jets, told German business daily Handelsblatt that it could certify the Typhoon for the nuclear mission in the future. However, the German government’s position seems to be that Boeing can get the F/A-18E/F ready to carry B61s in a shorter amount of time. It took years for Typhoon to get a true multi-role capability and that did not involve the hurdles that would be present in getting the U.S. government to certify a non-American-made jet to carry American nuclear weapons. “We certainly think that we, working with the U.S. government, can meet the German requirements there on the [German’s] timeline,” Dan Gillian, the head of Boeing’s F/A-18E/F Super Hornet and EA-18G Growler programs, told The War Zone regarding this issue in 2019. The addition of Growlers to the plan would also offer a more direct replacement for the Electronic Combat/Reconnaissance variants, or ECRs, in Germany’s Tornado fleet. The Tornado ECRs are specifically configured to conduct suppression of enemy air defenses (SEAD) missions and have specialized systems to spot and locate enemy radars and other emitters. SEAD is one of the Growler’s missions sets, as well, but these aircraft offer far more robust electronic warfare capabilities, which you can read about in more detail in this past War Zone piece, over the older Tornado ECRs. Beyond simply replacing the Tornado ECRs, an improved aerial electronic warfare capability was also seen as another requirement to support the nuclear mission. Growlers would be essential for protecting non-stealthy Super Hornets on nuclear, as well as conventional strikes missions, against a major adversary with a capable integrated air defense network, such as Russia. Existing and emerging air defense threats had been at the core of the argument that certain elements of the German military had made for buying stealthy F-35s. Growlers would also just be a major force multiplier for the entire German Air Force. In November 2019, Airbus did announce plans for a two-seat Typhoon ECR variant and Handelsblatt said that the decision about which aircraft to pick was “highly controversial.” The Growler has a significant advantage of being both in production and in service, both with the U.S. Navy and the Royal Australian Air Force, already. The Navy is also underwriting upgrades for the Growler, as well as the Super Hornet, and Germany could easily benefit from those developments with minimal, if any direct investment on its part. This is not the case when it comes to Typhoon, where the German government has a major stake in the program. Germany, together with France and Spain, is still pushing ahead with plans to develop a new stealth fighter under the Future Air Combat System (FCAS) program. That project is also set to include the development of other supporting designs, including unmanned loyal wingmen drones, or what Airbus refers to as “remote carriers.” A true unmanned combat air vehicle (UCAV) might also be among the associated projects. At present, the participating countries hope that the first examples of the manned aircraft component of the FCAS program will begin entering service in 2040. In the meantime, the split purchase of jets to replace the Tornado does offer a way for Germany to support the portions of its own domestic industrial base that are involved in the production of the Typhoon and acquire other key capabilities, such as nuclear-capable aircraft and new electronic warfare jets, relatively rapidly. There could also be drawbacks. While the German Air Force should have no real difficulty absorbing the additional Typhoons into its existing force structure, the F/A-18E/Fs and EA-18Gs will be entirely new types of aircraft for the service to operate and maintain. A fleet of just 45 Super Hornets and Growlers, in total, is relatively small, which could make it even costlier to sustain over time. Germany’s government does still need to approve the proposed split purchase and it’s unclear when exactly that might happen. The German Air Force’s Tornados have been in desperate need of a replacement for years now already, so the country can ill afford to wait much longer to finalize a plan. Whatever the case, the days of those swing-wing jets in German service look increasingly numbered and seems ever more likely that the country will be flying a mix of Typhoons, Super Hornets, and Growlers in the years to come. Contact the author: joe@thedrive.com


--- [Germany Set To Replace Tornado Jets With Mixed Eurofighter and Super Hornet Fleet - The Aviationist] ---
No content


--- [Boeing F/A-18E/F Super Hornet - Wikipedia] ---
The Boeing F/A-18E and F/A-18F Super Hornet are a series of American supersonic twin-engine, carrier-capable, multirole fighter aircraft derived from the McDonnell Douglas F/A-18 Hornet. The Super Hornet is in service with the armed forces of the United States, Australia, and Kuwait. The F/A-18E single-seat and F tandem-seat variants are larger and more advanced versions of the F/A-18C and D Hornet, respectively.
A strike fighter capable of air-to-air and air-to-ground/surface missions, the Super Hornet has an internal 20 mm M61A2 rotary cannon and can carry air-to-air missiles, air-to-surface missiles, and a variety of other weapons. Additional fuel can be carried in up to five external fuel tanks and the aircraft can be configured as an airborne tanker by adding an external air-to-air refueling system. Designed and initially produced by McDonnell Douglas, the Super Hornet first flew in 1995. Low-rate production began in early 1997, reaching full-rate production in September 1997, after the merger of McDonnell Douglas and Boeing the previous month. An electronic warfare variant, the EA-18G Growler, was also developed. Although officially named "Super Hornet", it is commonly referred to as "Rhino" within the United States Navy.
The Super Hornet entered fleet service with the U.S. Navy in 1999, supplanting the Grumman F-14 Tomcat, which was retired in 2006; the Super Hornet has served alongside the original Hornet as well. The F/A-18E/F became the backbone of U.S. carrier aviation since the 2000s and has been used extensively in combat operations in the Middle East, including the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq, and against the Islamic State and Assad-aligned forces in Syria. The Royal Australian Air Force (RAAF), which operated the F/A-18A as its main fighter since 1984, ordered the F/A-18F in 2007 to replace its aging General Dynamics F-111C fleet with the RAAF Super Hornets entering service in December 2010. The Super Hornet is planned to be replaced by the F/A-XX in U.S. Navy service starting in the 2030s.
