=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Timeline - Audio-Technica]
Hideo Matsushita establishes Audio-Technica Corporation in Tokyo's Shinjuku-ku. The Company launches the AT-1 and the AT-3 MM stereo phono cartridge and begins to supply these cartridges to audio equipment manufacturers in Japan. Audio-Technica moves to larger premises in Japan to accommodate its expanding operations.
URL: https://audio-technica.com.hk/index.php?op=defaultTpl&tpl=history&m=a&lang=eng

[Our Story | Audio-Technica]
In 1962, Matsushita founded Audio-Technica with the vision of producing high-quality audio for everyone. And following this vision, he soon created the first truly affordable phono cartridge, the AT-1, in the company’s small flat in Shinjuku, Tokyo.
URL: https://www.audio-technica.com/en-us/our-story

[Celebrating 60 Years With Audio-Technica - NAMM.org]
By 1962, Audio-Technica released its first phonograph cartridge, the AT-1, quickly followed by the AT-3 MM stereo phono cartridge. The success of these two cartridges allowed the company to expand into other fields. By 1965, the factory relocated to its current address in Naruse, Machida, Tokyo.
URL: https://ww1.namm.org/playback/industry-crossroads/celebrating-60-years-audio-technica

[Audio-Technica - Wikipedia]
Audio-Technica was established in 1962 in Shinjuku, Tokyo, Japan, by Hideo Matsushita as a phonograph cartridge manufacturer. Its first products were the AT-1 and the AT-3 MM stereo phono cartridges.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Audio-Technica

[Audio-Technica: 60 Years of Excellence | FOH | Front of House ...]
Nov 4, 2022 · In 1952, Hideo Matsushita, a 32-year-old art and music lover, went to work at the Bridgestone Museum of Art in Tokyo.
URL: https://fohonline.com/articles/milestones/audio-technica-60-years-of-excellence/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Timeline - Audio-Technica] ---
| 1962 Hideo Matsushita establishes Audio-Technica Corporation in Tokyo's Shinjuku-ku. The Company launches the AT-1 and the AT-3 MM stereo phono cartridge and begins to supply these cartridges to audio equipment manufacturers in Japan. 1963 Audio-Technica moves to larger premises in Japan to accommodate its expanding operations. Sales of the high-end AT-5 MM phono cartridge and the semi-integrated AT-1001 tone arm begin. 1964 Development of an elliptical diamond stylus and the AT-3X and AT-5X incorporating this stylus begin. 1965 The AT-1001 tone arm package is recognized with an award from the Agency of Industrial Science and Technology, part of Japan's Ministry of Trade and Industry. Audio-Technica moves its head office and factory to its current address in Naruse, Machida, Tokyo. 1967 The Company begins shipments of vibration-testing equipment to measuring-device manufacturers and launches the proprietary dual-magnet VM phono cartridges. 1968 Audio-Technica provides technology for joint phono cartridge research with the NHK Technology Research Center. 1969 Audio-Technica begins exporting phono cartridges to audio equipment manufacturers worldwide. The first microcassette recorders are launched. 1971 Audio-Technica obtains patents for the VM phono cartridge format in the United Kingdom and the United States. 1972 Audio-Technica U.S., Inc. is established in Akron, Ohio. 1973 Shipments of VM phono cartridges to European audio equipment manufacturers begin. 1974 Audio-Technica develops and launches the AT-700 series of stereo headphones. The AT-15E VM phono cartridge is awarded the top prize in the phono cartridge category at the Stereo Components Grand Prix competition. This product goes on to win numerous other awards. 1975 Audio- Technica begins sales of the AT-13d, 12d, 11d and 10d phono cartridges with shells. This year also sees the launch of the AT-705 electret condenser headphones and the AT-15Sa/ G, At-15E/G, AT-14SA/G and AT-14E/G ( G series ) phono cartridges featuring shells made with magnesium alloy. 1976 Audio- Technica secures a patent for the VM phono cartridge format in Japan. Sales of the AT-714 dynamic headphones begin, as do sales of the AT-15Ea/G, AT-14EA/G, AT-13E/G and AT-12E/G series of phono catridges with magnesium alloy shells. 1977 The Technica Gallery and Technica Auditorium are completed within the head office grounds. A European marketing office is established in Dusseldorf, West Germany. The AT-34 dual-moving-coil phono cartridge is launched. 1978 The ATH-8 and ATH-7 condenser headphones win the MITI Good Design Award. This year also brings the development and launch of the AT-800 series of microphones, and the establishment of Audio-Technica Ltd. In Leeds, England. 1979 Audio- Technica Fukui's Ikeda Plant is spun off as a separate company, Audio- Technica Ikeda Co., Ltd. 1980 The Company wins the Tokyo Art Directors' ADC Award for its series of package designs. Audio- Technica acquires the Sound Guard division from Ball Corp. of the United States. 1981 The R series of remote power microphones and the AT-666 vacuum disc stabilizer are launched. 1982 Audio-Technica's new head office building is completed in Machida, Tokyo. 1983 The Machine Plant is spun off as a separate company, Technica Machida Co., Ltd. Audio- Technica Fukui's Shimizu Plant is also spun off and reestablished as Technica Shimizu Co., Ltd. The year also marks the launch of LD and CD actuators, the AT-SP3 and AT-SP5 series of mini speakers and the AT-5001 and AT-5002 VCR head cleaning tapes. 1984 Audio- Technica Fukui earns the Chairman's Award in the Greenery Research & Development Center's third factory greenification awards. 1985 Audio-Technica launches the UniPoint series of ultra-compact installed-sound microphones. 1986 Audio-Technica succeeds in commercializing a Pure Copper by Ohno Continuous Casting AV cable. Audio-Technica launches the AT33ML/OCC phono cartridge, the world's first phono cartridge made with PCOCC materials. During the year, the Company also unveils wireless microphone systems, its first products in this category, and a boundary microphone that is quickly adopted by broadcasters everywhere. 1987 This year sees the commercialization of Super PCOCC cables and the launch of the AT6195 PCF optical digital cable. 1988 Audio-Technica Taiwan Co., Ltd., is established. 1990 Audio-Technica visible-laser collimator units are installed at Japan's National Astronomical Observatory's Nobeyama Radio Observatory. 1991 Audio-Technica introduces the AT4033 cardioid condenser microphone—the large-diaphragm side-address studio condenser that broke the $1000-barrier in its class. 1992 The AT4033 condenser microphone is chosen best microphone of 1991 at the Audio Engineering Society (AES) convention. 1993 Hideo Matsushita is named chairman of the board and is succeeded as president by Kazuo Matsushita. 1994 The AT4050/CM5 multipattern condenser microphone is launched. 1996 Audio-Technica (South East Asia) Pte. Ltd. is established in Singapore. Audio-Technica microphones and headphones are used at all venues in the Atlanta Summer Games. 1998 Audio-Technica launches the AT4060 vacuum tube studio-use condenser microphone. 1999 Audio-Technica introduces the AT895 adaptive array microphone, a revolutionary DSP-controlled five-element microphone array that provides adaptive directional audio acquisition, with A-T's proprietary DeltaBeamR technology. 2000 The performance of Audio-Technica products at the Atlanta Games leads to the company being selected to provide microphones and headphones for use in all venues a the Sydney Summer Games. 2002 Audio-Technica supplies microphones to the Salt Lake City Winter Games, the third consecutive games for which Audio-Technica microphones are used. A-T introduces its 5000 Series advanced wireless systems, featuring true-diversity, frequency-agile operation with dual compansion technology, IntelliScan? frequency selection and software for computer management and control. 2003 Audio-Technica introduces the groundbreaking AT3060 cardioid phantom-powered tube microphone, which operates exclusively on 48V DC phantom power, making it as easy to set up and use as a standard condenser microphone. 2004 Audio-Technica microphones are used by Athens Olympic Broadcasting S.A. (AOB) in the broadcast of the 28th Olympic Games in Athens. Audio-Technica sets a new price/performance standard in side-address microphone technology with the introduction of the AT2020 side-address studio cardioid condenser microphone. 2005 The ATH-W5000/AT-HA5000 high-quality ebony headphones and amplifiers are launched. ARTIST ELITE5000 series are released in Japan. Audio- Technica wins the Design Excellent Company Award 2005. 2006 The AEW5000 series wireless system is used with 40ch wide frequencies for curling compeition at the Winter Games in Turin, Italy. Audio- Technica supports the Grammy Awards by providing its wireless systems, including microphones, for the ninth consecutive year. New ATM series microphones are released. New plant to be completed in Hangzhou in China. 2007 Audio-Technica introduces the AT2010 cardioid condenser vocal microphone, bringing the studio-quality sound of Audio-Technica 20 Series to the stage. Audio-Technica introduces the first in its acclaimed line of QuietPoint® Noise-Cancelling Headphones. Audio-Technica changes the wireless landscape with the introduction of SpectraPulse®, a completely new application of proven, patented Ultra Wideband (UWB) technology. SpectraPulse UWB Wireless Microphone System bypasses the increasingly congested RF bottleneck to deliver clear, intelligible audio without the performance and set-up issues associated with conventional wireless systems. 2008 Audio-Technica microphones are used by Beijing Olympic Broadcasting in the coverage of the XXIX Olympic Games, August 8-24, 2008, in Beijing. Audio-Technica introduces M3 and M2 Wireless In-Ear Monitor Systems. 2009 Audio-Technica introduces its first ribbon microphones, the AT4080 and AT4081. Audio-Technica introduces BP896 subminiature lavalier. 2010 Audio-Technica continues its support of the world's finest athletes in Vancouver 2010. Audio-Technica's ATH-ANC7b QuietPoint® Active Noise-Cancelling Headphones win Innovations 2010 Design and Engineering Award. Audio-Technica opens new state-of-the-art Technica Fukui facility in Echizen City, Fukui Prefecture, Japan, to further develop A-T's wireless technology through research and product testing. 2012 Audio-Technica celebrates its 50th anniversary. Audio-Technica microphones are used once again to enhance the live feel of sports TV, capturing the sounds from London 2014. Audio-Technica introduces the ATH-ANC9 QuietPoint® headphones with exclusive Tri-Level Cancellation™ for selectable noise-cancellation. Audio-Technica unveils high-fidelity System 10 Digital Wireless, which operates in the 2.4 GHz range, far from TV and DTV interference. Audio-Technica launches its flagship 50 Series of elite studio microphones with the AT5040 Cardioid Condenser Microphone. 2013 Audio-Technica mourns the death of its founder, Hideo Matsushita, on March 5, 2013 at age 93. 2014 Audio-Technica introduces its first-ever gaming headsets, the closed-back ATH-AG1 and open-back ATH-ADG1, which provide audiophile sound quality and feature a built-in mic for in-game communication. Audio-Technica remasters its critically acclaimed M-Series line of professional monitor headphones to add more versatility and comfort while delivering incredibly accurate audio monitoring. Audio-Technica microphones cover all the action of the world's greatest athletes in Sochi 2014. Audio-Technica launches a new line of Network Microphones with direct Dante™ protocol by introducing the ATND971 cardioid condenser boundary microphone with Dante network output. 2015 Audio-Technica debuts Hi-Res Audio-Certified Headphones at CES 2015. Audio-Technica expands the M-Series range with the premium M70x Professional Monitoring Headphones. The ATH-R70x is introduced as Audio-Technica's first professional open-back reference headphone, joining the new ATH-M70x in A-T's flagship professional headphone lineup. 2016 Audio-Technica releases the first Bluetooth turntable, the LP60BT. Audio-Technica expands CKR "Sound Reality series" in-ear headphone series with ATH-CKR100, ATH-CKR90, ATH-CKR70, ATH-CKR50 and ATH-CKR30. Release the MC cartridge flagship model "AT-ART1000" bearing the name of "ART". 2017 Audio-Technica Debuts New Flagship AT5047 premier studio microphone. Audio-Technica unveil landmark ATH-ADX5000 audiophile reference headphones and the Special Edition ATH-MSR7ES High-Resolution Headphones. Start a new project "Wireless Journey Projects" related to wireless headphones. Audio-Technica Debuts the ATH-DSR9BT, Its First Headphones with Pure Digital Drive Bluetooth® Wireless Technology. 2018 Audio-Technica's ATH-DSR5BT headphones deliver a best-in-class in-ear wireless audio experience. Audio-Technica Debuts the warm, natural sound generated by the exquisitely crafted ATH-L5000 audiophile headphones. Release the smartphone application "Connect" App with new Truly Wireless ATH-CKR7TW and ATH-SPORT7TW Headphones. This App was developed so that you can use our compatible products more conveniently. Audio-Technica support of world's finest athletes in Pyeong Chang 2018. 2019 Audio-Technica Launches ATUC-IR Hybrid Infrared Discussion System. Audio-Technica Introduces Its Audiophile ATH-AWKT, ATH-AWAS and portable ATH-WP900 woodern Headphones. Audio-Technica Appointed MotoGP™ Microphone Services Solutions Provider. Audio-Technica Introduces Its AT-TC1000 and AT-IC1000 series cables with new 7N-Class D.U.C.C material. 2020 In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, published some proposals and suggestions on the cleaning of headphones and microphones. Audio-Technica Releases Limited-Edition AT2020TYO Cardioid Condenser Microphone with traditional Japanese "AIIRO" (indigo blue) finish. Audio-Technica reveals the next generation of its legendary AT-OC9X cartridge series at CES 2020. Audio-Technica Debuts new ATDM-1012 and ATDM-1012DAN Digital SmartMixer®. New Audio-Technica factory in Haining City was completed and put into operation. |


--- [Our Story | Audio-Technica] ---
Our Story In the early 1960s at Tokyo’s Bridgestone Museum of Art, curator Hideo Matsushita hosted LP listening concerts, where people would experience vinyl records played on high-quality audio equipment. Matsushita was moved by the positive reactions guests had to the music, but was frustrated that the expense of high-fidelity listening prevented many people from experiencing it. Founded in 1962 In 1962, Matsushita founded Audio-Technica with the vision of producing high-quality audio for everyone. And following this vision, he soon created the first truly affordable phono cartridge, the AT-1, in the company’s small flat in Shinjuku, Tokyo. A Passion for Listening Building on our passion for listening we have grown to design critically acclaimed headphones, turntables and microphones, remaining a family business and retaining the belief that high-quality audio should be accessible to all.


--- [Celebrating 60 Years With Audio-Technica - NAMM.org] ---
Celebrating 60 Years With Audio-Technica Established in 1962 in Shinjuku, Tokyo, by Hideo Matsushita, the NAMM Member celebrated its 60th anniversary in producing high-quality audio for everyone. In the early 1960s, Mr. Matsushita first felt the draw of providing high-quality audio experiences to people as he hosted LP listening concerts while working as the curator for the Tokyo Bridgestone Museum of Art. Moved by the audiences’ reactions as they experienced vinyl recordings played on high-quality audio equipment, Matsushita desired to bring this experience to the masses but became frustrated with the high cost of high-fidelity listening equipment. By 1962, Audio-Technica released its first phonograph cartridge, the AT-1, quickly followed by the AT-3 MM stereo phono cartridge. The success of these two cartridges allowed the company to expand into other fields. By 1965, the factory relocated to its current address in Naruse, Machida, Tokyo. The manufacturer began exporting its cartridges worldwide four years later and launched its first microcassette recorder. Keeping with Matsushita’s original passion for superior audio, Audio-Technica continued to innovate in this space. In 1968, it developed RCA cables with high-purity copper utilizing the continuous metal casting process invented by Atsumi Ohno. The phono cartridge business continued to prosper, allowing Audio-Technica the opportunity to establish a US facility in Fairlawn, Ohio. By 1974, the company developed its first set of headphones, the AT-700 series, with the AT-800 following four years later. As innovation in music recordings transformed into digital music formats, Audio-Tehnica faced the threat of obsoletion of its main product line, the phono cartridges. To remain a top contender in the industry, it began a period of product diversification in which employee suggestions were encouraged, netting one of its most intriguing products, sushi machines. While most don’t associate Audio-Technica with sushi machines, the premier audio equipment manufacturer remains one of the world’s largest manufacturers of sushi machines. Moving into the 1990s, the NAMM Member began to introduce its line of condenser microphones for studio use, and in 2012 it debuted its AT-LP1240-USB USB DJ Turntable and ATH-CKS55i. Today, the company is under the leadership of the President and son of Matsushita, Mr. Kazuo Matsushita. The list of accolades and uses for Audio-Technica’s products is astonishing. The manufacturer earned a CES Innovation Honoree Award (2017) for its Pure Digital Drive Wireless Headphone; supplied headphones and microphones to both the Summer (1996-present) and Winter (2002-present) Olympic Games and The GRAMMY Awards (1998-2013); and has earned multiple distinctions at The NAMM TEC Awards for its products. For more information from Audio-Technica, please visit https://www.audio-technica.com/.


--- [Audio-Technica - Wikipedia] ---
Audio-Technica Corporation (株式会社オーディオテクニカ, Kabushiki Kaisha Ōdio Tekunika) (stylized as audio-technica) is a Japanese company that designs and manufactures professional microphones, headphones, turntables, phonographic magnetic cartridges, and other audio equipment.


--- [Audio-Technica: 60 Years of Excellence | FOH | Front of House ...] ---
No content
