=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Amrita Sher-Gil - Wikipedia]
When she was a young girl she would paint the servants in her house, and get them to model for her. The memories of these models would eventually lead to her return to India. Her family faced financial problems in Hungary. In 1921, her family moved to Summer Hill, Shimla, India, and Sher-Gil ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Amrita_Sher-Gil

[Amrita Shergill - Jatland Wiki]
The memories of these models would eventually lead to her return to India.[4] In 1921 her family moved to Summer Hill, Shimla in India, and soon began learning piano and violin, and by age in nine she along with her younger sister Indira were giving concerts and acting in plays at Shimla's ...
URL: https://www.jatland.com/home/Amrita_Shergill

[Amrita Sher-Gil – India's Frida Kahlo | DailyArt Magazine]
Sher-Gil spent most of her early childhood in Budapest but in 1921, her family moved to Summer Hill, Shimla in India where she received a proper education. She had already been painting from the age of five but she formally started learning ...
URL: https://www.dailyartmagazine.com/amrita-sher-gil-indias-frida-kahlo/

[Amrita Sher-Gil, 1913-1941 - WWP]
Her father was an Indian Punjabi Sikh aristocrat scholar, and her mother was a Hungarian-Jewish opera singer. In 1921, when she was eight, the family moved to Summer Hill, Shimla, India...
URL: https://wanderwomenproject.com/women/amrita-sher-gil/

[Amrita Sher-Gil facts for kids]
She asked them to pose for her. Memories of these people later made her want to return to India. Her family faced some money problems in Hungary. In 1921, her family moved to Summer Hill, Shimla, India.
URL: https://kids.kiddle.co/Amrita_Sher-Gil


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Amrita Sher-Gil - Wikipedia] ---
Amrita Sher-Gil (30 January 1913 – 5 December 1941) was a Hungarian–Indian painter. She has been called "one of the greatest avant-garde women artists of the early 20th century" and a pioneer in modern Indian art. Drawn to painting from an early age, Sher-Gil started formal lessons at the age of eight. She first gained recognition at the age of 19, for her 1932 oil painting Young Girls. Sher-Gil depicted everyday life of the people in her paintings.
Sher-Gil travelled throughout her life to various countries including Turkey, France, and India, deriving heavily from precolonial Indian art styles as well as contemporary culture. Sher-Gil is considered an important painter of 20th-century India, whose legacy stands on a level with that of the pioneers from the Bengal Renaissance. She was also an avid reader and a pianist. Sher-Gil's paintings are among the most expensive by Indian women painters today, although few acknowledged her work when she was alive.


--- [Amrita Shergill - Jatland Wiki] ---
Amrita Shergill Amrita Shergill or Amrita Sher-Gil (अमृता शेरगिल) (30 January 1913 – 5 December 1941) was an eminent Indian painter born to a Punjabi Sikh father and a Hungarian mother. Princess Amrita Sher-Gill of Majithia Princess Amrita Sher-Gill of Majithia (30 January 1913 – 5 December 1941) was an eminent Hungarian-Indian painter. She has been called "one of the greatest avant-garde artists of the early 20th century" and a "pioneer" in modern Indian art. Rajkumari Amrita Sher-Gill was born on 30 January 1913 in Hungary, a Shergill Jat aristocrat Raja Umrao Singh of Majithia (Shergill) and Marie Antoniette Gottesmann, a Hungarian who came from an affluent bourgeois family. Her paintings are displayed at the National Gallery of Modern Art, New Delhi. One of the most prominent roads of Delhi , Amrita Shergil Marg, near Khan Market and Lodhi Garden is named after her. Estate:- Majitha Dynasty:- Sher-Gill Jats. Early life Amrita Sher-Gil was born in Budapest, Hungary [1] to Umrao Singh Sher-Gil Majithia, a Sikh aristocrat and a scholar in Sanskrit and Persian, and Marie Antoniette Gottesmann, a Jewish opera singer from Hungary. Her mother came to India as a companion of Princess Bamba Sutherland.[2] [3] Sher-Gil was the elder of two daughters born. Her younger sister was Indira Sundaram (née Sher-Gil), mother of the contemporary artist Vivan Sundaram. She spent most of early childhood in Budapest. She was the niece of Indologist Ervin Baktay. He guided her by critiquing her work and gave her an academic foundation to grow on. He also instructed her to use servants as models. The memories of these models would eventually lead to her return to India.[4] In 1921 her family moved to Summer Hill, Shimla in India, and soon began learning piano and violin, and by age in nine she along with her younger sister Indira were giving concerts and acting in plays at Shimla's Gaiety Theatre at Mall Road, Shimla.[5] Though she was already painting since the age of five she formally started learning painting at age eight. Three Girls, 1935, now at the National Gallery of Modern Art in New Delhi. In 1923, Marie came to know an Italian sculptor, who was living at Shimla at the time and in 1924 when he returned to Italy, she too moved to Italy along with Amrita and got her enrolled at Santa Annunziata, an art school at Florence. Though Amrita didn't stay at this school for long, and returned to India in 1924, it was here that she was exposed to works of Italian masters.[6] At sixteen, Sher-Gil sailed to Europe with her mother to train as a painter at Paris, first at the Grande Chaumiere under Pierre Vaillant and later at École des Beaux-Arts (1930–34), she drew inspiration from European painters such as Paul Cézanne and Paul Gauguin, while coming under the influence of her teacher Lucien Simon and the company of artist friends and lovers like Boris Tazlitsky. Her early paintings display a significant influence of the Western modes of painting, especially as practiced in the Bohemian circles of Paris in the early 1930s. In 1932, she made her first important work, Young Girls, which led to her election as an Associate of the Grand Salon in Paris in 1933, making her the youngest ever and the only Asian to have received this recognition. In 1934, while in Europe she "began to be haunted by an intense longing to return to India feeling in some strange way that there lay my destiny as a painter", as she later wrote about her return to India the same year. Came to Saraya Sher-Gil married her Hungarian first cousin, Dr. Victor Egan in 1938 and moved with him to India to stay at her paternal family's home in Saraya in Gorakhpur, Uttar Pradesh. It was during her stay at Saraya that she painted the Village Scene, In the Ladies' Enclosure and Siesta all of which portray the leisurely rhythms of life in rural India. Siesta and In the Ladies' Enclosure reflect her experimentation with the miniature school of painting while Village Scene reflects influences of the Pahari school of painting. In September 1941, Victor and Amrita moved to Lahore, then in undivided India and a major cultural and artistic centre. Death In 1941, just days before the opening of her first major solo show in Lahore, she became seriously ill and slipped into a coma, and later died around midnight on 6 December 1941. Amrita was cremated on 7 December 1941 at Lahore. External links Gallery - Raja Umrao Singh of Majithia (1870-1954), the father of the famous colourful and innovative painter Amrita Sher-Gil. He was was born at Majitha, a village in Amritsar district into a Sher Gill Jat family. He was the eldest son of Raja Surat Singh Majithia. References - ↑ "Budapest Diary". Outlook. 20 September 2010. - ↑ Kang, Kanwarjit Singh (20 September 2009). "The Princess who died unknown". The Sunday Tribune. - ↑ Khushwant Singh (27 March 2006). - ↑ On Amrita Sher-Gil: Claiming a Radiant Legacy By Nilima Sheikh - ↑ Amrita Shergill at sikh-heritage. Sikh-heritage.co.uk (30 January 1913). - ↑ Amrita Shergill Biography at. Iloveindia.com (6 December 1941). Back to Famous Jat Women


--- [Amrita Sher-Gil – India's Frida Kahlo | DailyArt Magazine] ---
Clementine Hunter: Painting Black Life from Memory Clementine Hunter taught herself to paint in her fifities and spent the rest of her life chronicling the Black Southern experience, not with slogans... Wen Gu 23 February 2026 Amrita Sher-Gil lived a short but certainly interesting life. Her artistic oeuvre is extremely impressive and she is considered to be one of the most important painters of 20th-century India. She is even sometimes called India’s Frida Kahlo. Amrita Sher-Gil was born on 30 January 1913 in Budapest, Hungary. Her father was a Sikh aristocrat and a scholar in Sanskrit and Persian, and her mother, Marie Antoinette Gottesmann, was a Hungarian-Jewish opera singer. Sher-Gil spent most of her early childhood in Budapest but in 1921, her family moved to Summer Hill, Shimla in India where she received a proper education. She had already been painting from the age of five but she formally started learning painting at age of eight. At 16, Sher-Gil sailed to Europe with her mother to train as a painter in Paris, first at the Grande Chaumiere under Pierre Vaillant and Lucien Simon and later at the École des Beaux-Arts. She was inspired by European painters such as Paul Cézanne and Paul Gauguin. In 1932, Sher-Gil created her first important work, Young Girls, which led to her election as an Associate of the Grand Salon in Paris in 1933, making her the youngest ever and the only Asian artist to have received this recognition. However, during her stay in Europe Amrita Sher-Gil greatly missed India. In 1934 she “began to be haunted by an intense longing to return to India.” As she wrote, she started “feeling in some strange way that there lay my destiny as a painter.” She began a quest for the rediscovery of the traditions of Indian art. Later she wrote to her friend: “I can only paint in India. Europe belongs to Picasso, Matisse, Braque… India belongs only to me.” Sher-Gil married her Hungarian first cousin, Dr. Victor Egan in 1938 and moved with him to India to stay at her paternal family’s home in Saraya in Gorakhpur, Uttar Pradesh. In Saraya, she painted the leisurely rhythms of life in rural India. Although acclaimed by art critics Karl Khandalavala in Bombay and Charles Fabri in Lahore as the greatest painter of the century, Sher-Gil’s paintings found few buyers. In 1941, just days before the opening of her first major solo exhibition in Lahore, she became seriously ill and slipped into a coma. She died around midnight on 6 December 1941. The reason for her death is still unknown – some suggested a failed abortion and subsequent peritonitis. Her mother accused her doctor husband Victor of having murdered her. On the day after her death, Britain declared war on Hungary, and Victor was sent to jail as an enemy of the state. DailyArt Magazine needs your support. Every contribution, however big or small, is very valuable for our future. Thanks to it, we will be able to sustain and grow the Magazine. Thank you for your help!


--- [Amrita Sher-Gil, 1913-1941 - WWP] ---
Amrita Sher-Gil was born in Budapest, then in the Kingdom of Hungary. Her father was an Indian Punjabi Sikh aristocrat scholar, and her mother was a Hungarian-Jewish opera singer. In 1921, when she was eight, the family moved to Summer Hill, Shimla, India. From a young age, Sher-Gil showed talent in painting but started her formal training only when arriving in India. She also learned piano and violin, and within a year of their arrival, she played in concerts at Shimla’s Gaiety Theatre. In 1924, at 11, she moved with her mother to Italy for a year, where she attended an art school in Florence and found inspiration in the works of the great Italian masters. At 16, she returned to Europe to get training as a painter in Paris. First, she studied at the Académie de la Grande Chaumière and later at the École des Beaux-Arts. At the time, she drew inspiration from Western art, especially the post-impressionism style, and included self-portraits, portraits of friends and classmates, still life, nudes, and Parisian life. At 19, she had her breakthrough with her painting Young Girls, for which she was awarded a gold medal and gained membership at the Associate of the Grand Salon in Paris, the youngest ever and the only Asian to become a member. In 1934, longings drew her back to India, and three years later, she embarked on a tour to South India to discover and explore her Indian roots. Inspired by the people and the scenery, especially the wall paintings of the Ajanta Caves, Sher-Gil began to incorporate her Western techniques with the Indian aesthetic. This new innovative style separated her from her contemporaries, particularly her use of colors, contrasting the pale tones of Bengal art. By then, Sher-Gil claimed to have found her ‘artistic mission,’ which was expressing the life of the Indian people through the canvas, as can be seen in her South Indian trilogy – Brahmacharis, Bride’s Toilet, and South Indian Villagers Going to Market. At 25, she married her Hungarian first cousin, Dr. Viktor Egan, and they settled near her paternal family in Saraya, in what is today Uttar Pradesh. There, she focused on rural life and began experimenting with the 17th-century Mughal miniatures painting style, as seen in her works In the Ladies, Village Scene, and Siesta. In 1941, Sher-Gil and her husband moved to Lahore, where she worked on her first major solo exhibition. She became ill only a few days before the show’s opening and slipped into a comma. She died a few days later, at the age of 28. Sher-Gil’s artistic style has influenced generations of Indian artists, and she is considered one of the significant avant-garde women artists of the early 20th century. This post is also available in: Español “Europe belongs to Picasso, Matisse and many others, India belongs only to me.” “Europe belongs to Picasso, Matisse and many others, India belongs only to me.” Fun Facts - She had relationships with both men and women. - Her paintings were used as Congress propaganda for village reconstruction. - The Government of India declared her work a National Art Treasure, meaning it must stay in the country; less than ten of her painting were sold outside of India. - Most of her artwork is in the collection of The National Gallery of Modern Art in New Delhi. - In 2006, her painting Village Scene sold for ₹6.9 crores, the highest amount ever paid for a painting in India. - UNESCO announced 2013 as the international year of Amrita Sher-Gil. - The 1969 documentary film Amrita Sher-Gil follows her life; it won the National Film Award for Best Non-Feature Film. - Her work was the main theme in Amrita Chowdhury's novel 'Faking It.' - The character Aurora Zogoiby in Salman Rushdie's The Moor's Last Sigh was inspired by her. - On 30th January 2016, her 103rd birthday, she was honored with a Google Doodle. - The Amrita Sher-Gil Marg Road in Delhi was named in her honor. - The Amrita Sher-Gil Cultural Center in Budapest was named in her honor. Visit Her Landmark Sorry, no records were found. Please adjust your search criteria and try again. Sorry, unable to load the Maps API. This post is also available in: Español


--- [Amrita Sher-Gil facts for kids] ---
Amrita Sher-Gil facts for kids Quick facts for kids Amrita Sher-Gil | | |---|---| | Born | | | Died | 5 December 1941 | (aged 28) | Nationality | Hungarian / Indian | | Education | Grande Chaumiere École des Beaux-Arts (1930–34) | | Known for | Painting | Amrita Sher-Gil (born January 30, 1913 – died December 5, 1941) was a famous Hungarian-Indian painter. Many people call her "one of the greatest new women artists of the early 1900s." She is also seen as a "pioneer" in modern Indian art. Early Life and Learning Amrita Sher-Gil was born in Budapest, Kingdom of Hungary. Her father, Umrao Singh Sher-Gil Majithia, was an Indian noble from the Majithia family. He was a scholar who studied Sanskrit and Persian. Her mother, Marie Antoinette Gottesmann, was a Hungarian opera singer from a wealthy family. Amrita's parents met in 1912 when her mother visited Lahore. Her mother came to India with Princess Bamba Sutherland. Princess Bamba was the granddaughter of Maharaja Ranjit Singh. Amrita was the older of two daughters. Her younger sister was Indira Sundaram. Amrita spent most of her early childhood in Budapest. Her uncle, Ervin Baktay, studied India. He noticed Amrita's art skills when he visited Shimla in 1926. He encouraged her to pursue art. He helped her by giving advice and a strong foundation for her art. When she was young, she would paint the people who worked in her house. She asked them to pose for her. Memories of these people later made her want to return to India. Her family faced some money problems in Hungary. In 1921, her family moved to Summer Hill, Shimla, India. Amrita soon started learning piano and violin. By age nine, she and her sister Indira were performing concerts. They also acted in plays at Shimla's Gaiety Theatre. She had been painting since she was five. But she started formal art lessons at age eight. Major Whitmarsh and later Beven Pateman taught her art. In Shimla, Amrita lived a comfortable life. As a child, she was asked to leave her school. This happened because she said she did not believe in God. In 1923, Amrita's mother met an Italian sculptor in Shimla. In 1924, he went back to Italy. Amrita and her mother also moved there. Amrita joined an art school in Florence called Santa Annunziata. She did not stay long at this school. She returned to India in 1924. But while there, she saw the works of famous Italian artists. At sixteen, Sher-Gil traveled to Europe with her mother. She went to Paris to train as a painter. First, she studied at the Académie de la Grande Chaumière. Her teachers were Pierre Vaillent and Lucien Simon. She later studied at the École des Beaux-Arts from 1930 to 1934. She found inspiration from European painters. These included Paul Cézanne, Paul Gauguin, and Amedeo Modigliani. She worked under her teacher Lucien Simon. She also learned from her artist friends. In Paris, people said she painted with great passion. This was rare for a 16-year-old. Artistic Career Sher-Gil's early paintings show a strong influence from Western painting styles. She was especially influenced by Post-impressionism. In the early 1930s, she spent a lot of time with artistic groups in Paris. Her 1932 oil painting, Young Girls, was a big success for her. This painting won her many awards. She received a gold medal. She was also chosen as an Associate of the Grand Salon in Paris in 1933. She was the youngest person ever to get this honor. She was also the only Asian artist to receive it. During this time, she painted many self-portraits. She also painted scenes of life in Paris. She did still life studies and portraits of her friends. Sher-Gil returned to India at the end of 1934. In India, she started to explore Indian art traditions. She continued this search until her death. She was very impressed by Mughal and Pahari art styles. She also loved the cave paintings at Ajanta. Sher-Gil is seen as a very important painter of 20th-century India. Her art is as important as that of the first artists of the Bengali Renaissance. Today, Sher-Gil's paintings are among the most expensive by Indian women painters. However, few people recognized her work when she was alive. Death In 1941, Amrita was 28 years old. Just days before her first big art show in Lahore, she became very sick. She fell into a coma. She left behind many artworks. Her last painting was not finished when she died. She passed away around midnight on December 5, 1941. The reason for her death has never been found out. Amrita was cremated on December 7, 1941, in Lahore. Legacy Sher-Gil's art has inspired many Indian artists. Her paintings show the challenges faced by women. This has made her art an inspiration for women everywhere. Some people called Sher-Gil "India's Frida Kahlo." This was because she bravely mixed Western and traditional art styles. The Government of India has said her works are National Art Treasures. Most of her paintings are kept in the National Gallery of Modern Art in New Delhi. Some of her paintings are also in the Lahore Museum. Her art is so important to Indian culture. Because of this, when her art is sold in India, the government says it must stay in the country. Fewer than ten of her works have been sold outside India. A postage stamp showing her painting 'Hill Women' was released in 1978 by India Post. There is also a road in Lutyens' Delhi named after her, called Amrita Shergil Marg. Images for kids See also In Spanish: Amrita Sher-Gil para niños
