=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[MANY Definition & Meaning - Merriam-Webster]
The meaning of MANY is consisting of or amounting to a large but indefinite number. How to use many in a sentence.
URL: https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/many

[Letecia Stauch found guilty, sentenced to life in 2020 murder of 11 ...]
The five-week trial ended with the conviction of Letecia Stauch on all counts.
URL: https://www.kiro7.com/news/trending/letecia-stauch-found-guilty-2020-murder-11-year-old-stepson/E4C2XKADGFG2FMDL2MANVN7LZQ/

[2020-Present: Breaking down the 3-year timeline for the Letecia Stauch ...]
Mar 19, 2023 — - After months of being told more time for an evaluation was needed, the judge warns the defense that they had four more weeks to get it ...
URL: https://www.kktv.com/2023/03/20/2020-present-breaking-down-3-year-timeline-letecia-stauch-murder-case/

[Letecia Stauch trial: Jury finds her guilty of killing stepson | 9news.com]
An El Paso County jury reached a verdict Monday in the trial of Letecia Stauch, who was charged in the 2020 killing of her 11-year-old stepson Gannon.
URL: https://www.9news.com/article/news/investigations/gannon-stauch/letica-stauch-trial/73-1ae66eea-e102-4c51-88a4-228b4aebdd44

[Family, judge give emotional statements in Letecia Stauch trial]
The family of an 11-year-old boy who was murdered by his step-mom gave emotionally moving statements at the end of a weeks long trial that ultimately found Letecia Stauch guilty of all charges ...
URL: https://kdvr.com/news/local/gannon-stauch-letecia-sentencing-trial-family-statements/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [MANY Definition & Meaning - Merriam-Webster] ---
1 : consisting of or amounting to a large but indefinite number worked for many years the many advantages of an education 2 : being one of a large but indefinite number many a man many another student see also: plural in construction 1 : a large but indefinite number a good many of them 2 : the great majority of people the many Love words? Need even more definitions? Merriam-Webster unabridged


--- [Letecia Stauch found guilty, sentenced to life in 2020 murder of 11 ...] ---
We’re Sorry! This website is unavailable in your location. Error 451 It appears you are attempting to access this website from a country outside of the United States, therefore access cannot be granted at this time. This website is unavailable in your location. It appears you are attempting to access this website from a country outside of the United States, therefore access cannot be granted at this time.


--- [2020-Present: Breaking down the 3-year timeline for the Letecia Stauch ...] ---
2020-Present: Breaking down the 3-year timeline for the Letecia Stauch murder case Stauch was arrested after her stepson, Gannon, disappeared in 2020. COLORADO SPRINGS, Colo. (KKTV) - More than three years after a young boy disappeared in the Pikes Peak region, his stepmother is standing trial for his death. Opening statements are expected to begin Monday in the Letecia Stauch murder trial. Below is a comprehensive timeline of that case: - 6:55 p.m., El Paso County Sheriff’s Office dispatch receives call of runaway child, 6600 block of Mandan Drive in the Lorson Ranch neighborhood. - 7:32 p.m., Gannon Stauch entered into state and national databases as active runaway - Last seen between 3 and 4 p.m. on the 27th - Nothing found on initial search - 12:29 p.m., case turned over to EPSO investigators - Detectives conduct interviews, collect surveillance, follow up on additional leads - Investigation continues - Case upgraded from runaway to endangered missing child - EPSO requests resources from NCMEC and FBI Crimes Abduction Rapid Deployment Team - Letecia Stauch speaks exclusively to 11 News reporter Spencer Wilson - Neighbor comes forward with home surveillance video showing a driver and passenger getting into a truck the day Gannon went missing, and only one person returning hours later. - 4th Judicial District Attorney Dan May is first seen at the Stauch home. - Search for Gannon moves into Douglas County. - Douglas County search suspended. Sheriff’s office says there remains the potential for search efforts to start up any time. - Letecia Stauch arrested in Myrtle Beach, South Carolina. - Letecia reportedly attacked a deputy and was held in a Kansas jail, according to a source. - Letecia arrives in Colorado Springs for a video advisement hearing. - Letecia appears in El Paso County courtroom, is formally charged in Gannon’s death - Authorities announced they believe they found Gannon’s remains in Florida and file new charges against Letecia. - Arrest papers in murder case leaked on social media. - Paralegal for the Brighton City Attorney’s Office charged with a misdemeanor for allegedly leaking the Letecia Stauch arrest affidavit - Attorneys for Letecia file motion to allow to bond out of jail - 11 News obtains second arrest affidavit revealed Letecia allegedly concocted a plot to escape from jail, included measuring herself to see whether she’d fit through the window and obtaining a broom to break the glass. New charges filed against Letecia. - Second of two mental health evaluations find Letecia competent to stand trial. - Judge agrees to let Letecia defend herself. - Letecia represents herself in court for the first time. - Letecia’s jail library privileges revoked after she reportedly refused twice to use her allotted times. - Court announces through release of documents that Letecia will no longer be representing herself, will get new public defenders. - Judge rules that there is sufficient evidence against Letecia for the case to move to trial. - Letecia changes plea from not guilty to not guilty by reason of insanity. Case delayed so Letecia can be evaluated at the state hospital in Pueblo. - After months of being told more time for an evaluation was needed, the judge warns the defense that they had four more weeks to get it done, or the state hospital would be required to explain the delay. - Judge holds hearing to discuss results of competency test. The results were not read publicly, but 11 News’ crew in the courtroom heard the word “sane” used in reference to the evaluation. Defense asks for second evaluation and requests its own experts. - The judge grants a second evaluation. Letecia arrives to the hearing an hour late, prompting the judge to rule that “all force reasonably necessary” can be used to make sure she leaves the jail on time on court days. - A trial date is set for March 2023. - Jury selection begins in the Letecia Stauch trial. - Defense says its latest sanity report showed Letecia was insane at the time of Gannon’s murder. April 3, 2023 - Opening statements expected to begin. Copyright 2023 KKTV. All rights reserved.


--- [Letecia Stauch trial: Jury finds her guilty of killing stepson | 9news.com] ---
- EnglishUnited States - Deutsch - English - Español - Français - Italiano - All languages - Afrikaans - azərbaycan - bosanski - català - Čeština - Cymraeg - Dansk - Deutsch - eesti - EnglishUnited Kingdom - EspañolEspaña - EspañolLatinoamérica - euskara - Filipino - FrançaisCanada - FrançaisFrance - Gaeilge - galego - Hrvatski - Indonesia - isiZulu - íslenska - Italiano - Kiswahili - latviešu - lietuvių - magyar - Melayu - Nederlands - norsk - o‘zbek - polski - PortuguêsBrasil - PortuguêsPortugal - română - shqip - Slovenčina - slovenščina - srpski (latinica) - Suomi - Svenska - Tiếng Việt - Türkçe - Ελληνικά - беларуская - български - кыргызча - қазақ тілі - македонски - монгол - Русский - српски - Українська - ქართული - հայերեն - עברית - اردو - العربية - فارسی - አማርኛ - नेपाली - मराठी - हिन्दी - অসমীয়া - বাংলা - ਪੰਜਾਬੀ - ગુજરાતી - ଓଡ଼ିଆ - தமிழ் - తెలుగు - ಕನ್ನಡ - മലയാളം - සිංහල - ไทย - ລາວ - မြန်မာ - ខ្មែរ - 한국어 - 日本語 - 简体中文 - 繁體中文 - 繁體中文香港 - EnglishUnited States - Deutsch - English - Español - Français - Italiano - All languages - Afrikaans - azərbaycan - bosanski - català - Čeština - Cymraeg - Dansk - Deutsch - eesti - EnglishUnited Kingdom - EspañolEspaña - EspañolLatinoamérica - euskara - Filipino - FrançaisCanada - FrançaisFrance - Gaeilge - galego - Hrvatski - Indonesia - isiZulu - íslenska - Italiano - Kiswahili - latviešu - lietuvių - magyar - Melayu - Nederlands - norsk - o‘zbek - polski - PortuguêsBrasil - PortuguêsPortugal - română - shqip - Slovenčina - slovenščina - srpski (latinica) - Suomi - Svenska - Tiếng Việt - Türkçe - Ελληνικά - беларуская - български - кыргызча - қазақ тілі - македонски - монгол - Русский - српски - Українська - ქართული - հայերեն - עברית - اردو - العربية - فارسی - አማርኛ - नेपाली - मराठी - हिन्दी - অসমীয়া - বাংলা - ਪੰਜਾਬੀ - ગુજરાતી - ଓଡ଼ିଆ - தமிழ் - తెలుగు - ಕನ್ನಡ - മലയാളം - සිංහල - ไทย - ລາວ - မြန်မာ - ខ្មែរ - 한국어 - 日本語 - 简体中文 - 繁體中文 - 繁體中文香港 Before you continue to YouTube We use cookies and data to - Deliver and maintain Google services - Track outages and protect against spam, fraud, and abuse - Measure audience engagement and site statistics to understand how our services are used and enhance the quality of those services If you choose to “Accept all,” we will also use cookies and data to - Develop and improve new services - Deliver and measure the effectiveness of ads - Show personalized content, depending on your settings - Show personalized ads, depending on your settings If you choose to “Reject all,” we will not use cookies for these additional purposes. Non-personalized content and ads are influenced by things like the content you’re currently viewing and your location (ad serving is based on general location). Personalized content and ads can also include things like video recommendations, a customized YouTube homepage, and tailored ads based on past activity, like the videos you watch and the things you search for on YouTube. We also use cookies and data to tailor the experience to be age-appropriate, if relevant. Select “More options” to see additional information, including details about managing your privacy settings. You can also visit g.co/privacytools at any time.


--- [Family, judge give emotional statements in Letecia Stauch trial] ---
COLORADO SPRINGS, Colo. (KDVR) — Letecia Stauch was found guilty Monday of all counts related to murdering her 11-year-old stepson, Gannon. The counts include first-degree murder after deliberation, first-degree murder of a child under 12 years old by a person in a position of trust, tampering with a deceased human body and tampering with physical evidence. “The facts in this case are the most horrific I have ever seen. Your conduct in this case deserves the maximum punishment that I can impose under Colorado law,” Judge Gregory Werner said. Before the sentencing, the family gave powerful impact statements, asking for the maximum sentence. Gannon’s mother: ‘You came into this world fighting’ Gannon’s mother, Landen Bullard, described him, saying, “Our first biggest blessing came into the world weighing only 1 pound and 6 ounces. You fought all the odds and developed a personality and a smile that’s larger than life. You became my hero that day.” “You came into this world fighting, and unfortunately you left this world fighting. Your honor, he fought against someone that he loved and trusted, someone that myself and Albert both trusted and loved,” Bullard said, speaking also of the boy’s father, Al. Bullard said she trusted the defendant with her children “mother to mother.” Al Stauch later added that the defendant had the credentials that should have made her trustworthy with a child, including a background in teaching, social work, higher education and even babysitting. “I never in my wildest dreams would have ever thought you would be endangered by anyone or I would have not left you at home with what turned out to be a murderer and the last person to ever see you on this earth,” Stauch said. Bullard said that she knows that while the defendant was attacking and killing her son, that he fought for his life and defended himself from her while still loving her. She said the jury cannot understand the significance of things that she says or does, noting that she “projected abuse and addiction claims against all of us” in an effort to destroy who Bullard was or who Stauch was as a father. “Leticia tried to steal many things from my niece, she called her a drug addict, she called her homeless when she was in the hospital having her third child. She was there for months and months trying to save her life and her baby,” great aunt Veronica Birkenstock said. “Her only son was taken away by someone who was just ferociously jealous of my niece.” But the case has brought people together. She said that even after the defendant murdered the 11-year-old and tried to “taint any positive image of him, he has caused families and communities to come together.” Gannon’s father: Letecia would ‘manipulate’ tension This proved true when Melissa, Al Stauch’s wife, wrote, “I too know the pain of losing a child, and there is no greater pain. We are now lifelong grief partners, as this is a lifelong journey of pain with two sons waiting for us in heaven.” Gannon’s father even paused during his statement to add something that he did not have planned in his speech, and said, “Me and Landen already had a conversation about this, and I owe her an apology, as well as she already gave me one, that we allowed Letecia to manipulate us into some of the pain and disagreements that we had between one another.” He turned to the courtroom and said, “Landen, I am sorry.” He also addressed the court and said he needed to clear something up with the defense. “Somehow, Gannon has been compared to a demon, and I understand the process I do, but if they want to take the case up of Gannon being a demon I will line people up from Alaska to Denver to Colorado Springs all the way to South Carolina to testify against them,” he said. Read FOX31’s coverage of the trial: - ‘She was killing the demons in her life’: Sanity the focus in Stauch murder trial - Jury hears FBI-recorded calls between Letecia Stauch and Gannon’s father - ‘You’re trying to put me 6 feet under’: Stauch’s phone calls played at trial - Week 1 of Stauch trial ends with physical evidence, texts - Hydrocodone found during Gannon Stauch’s autopsy - Letecia Stauch’s daughter testifies in murder trial - Experts testify about blood evidence in Gannon Stauch’s room - Letecia Stauch’s web searches revealed as murder trial nears end - Jury deciding fate of Letecia Stauch in murder of 11-year-old stepson ‘Our fragile trust in one another has been further eroded’ Birkenstock said that despite Gannon’s unlikely odds when he was born prematurely, he was intelligent and full of love and joy. She said his 11 years had an impact and hopes people remember him for who he was, and “not what this evil deed did to his memory.” Gannon’s father said the most alarming thing he did before his death was call him “dad” instead of “daddy.” His great uncle, Jeff Davenport, spoke of the preciousness and potential of an 11-year-old, saying the defendant took away all of the love and joy that Gannon and his children would have brought to the world. He said that the impact of this case spreads through the millions of people who have heard about it, who will now be less trusting and more suspicious. “Because of her crime, all of our fragile trust in one another has been further eroded,” Davenport said. “Because of her specious, cynical, calculated use of the NGRI (not guilty by reason of insanity plea) in this case, those who are truly mentally ill will be treated with more suspicion and may never receive the help that they need. Little sister gives statement to the court Gannon’s grandfather, Bob Rogers, was at “a loss for words,” focusing on the impact on Gannon’s younger sister. “She is a beautiful child, she sings beautifully, she is talented … What she doesn’t have is an older brother to stand beside her,” he said. “This has gone from my children to my grandchildren, little children who lost a cousin who never understood why something like this could happen,” grandmother Debra Pearce added. She said if Gannon were here today, he would plead for his family to be protected and taken care of as they go forward in this life. Stauch spoke for Gannon’s little sister, Laina, who when asked if she wanted to say anything to Letecia, said “that you do not do that to people, especially your step kids,” and that it’s “never alright to do those things.” ‘Nauseating and infuriating to hear her called Miss Stauch’ Al Stauch asked the judge to strip Letecia Stauch of his last name immediately, as it was “nauseating and infuriating to hear her called Miss Stauch.” He asked that for every mile she drove the boy across the country, she spends one day in solitary confinement. After that, he asked her sentence to be equal to every year she took of Gannon’s life, plus every year of her daughter Harley’s life that Leticia Stauch “abusively manipulated” her. He refused restitution, saying, “For the dollar-fifty a month I receive from the defendant Letecia would just keep me connected to her for the rest of my life, and I don’t want that.” And despite another unsettled count on solicitation to commit escape, the district attorney asked to drop the charges on the pending case. “In the grand scheme of things, while I’d love to prosecute this defendant for that charge as well, in the interest of justice I would like to see this defendant in Department of Corrections custody as soon as possible, and so we are dismissing that count or that charge,” District Attorney Michael Allen said. After a short recess, the judge gave Letecia Stauch the maximum sentences, including life in prison without the possibility of parole for each murder count, with an additional 12 years for tampering with a deceased human body and another 18 months for tampering with physical evidence.
