=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[St. Anthony of Padua | Catholic Church in The Woodlands, TX]
Join our welcoming Catholic community at St. Anthony of Padua in The Woodlands, TX. Mass times, confessions, events, and parish programs for all ages.About · Sacraments · Adults · Youth
URL: https://www.ap.church/

[Sts. Simon and Jude Catholic Parish marks 40 years in The Woodlands]
Nov 18, 2019 · The Woodlands' first parish was originally designated by the Diocese of Galveston-Houston in August 1979, and parishioners celebrated its first Mass in October 1979, according to Sts. Simon and...
URL: https://communityimpact.com/houston/the-woodlands/2019/11/18/sts-simon-and-jude-catholic-parish-marks-40-years-in-the-woodlands/

[About Our School - St. Anthony of Padua Catholic School]
St. Anthony of Padua Parish was founded on June 3, 1997. Archbishop Joseph Fiorenza issued the challenge of establishing a new church community and school to serve the needs of Catholic families in The Woodlands, Texas.
URL: https://ap.school/about

[Who We Are | Sts. Simon & Jude Catholic Church | The Woodlands, TX]
Sts. Simon & Jude has been a cornerstone of Catholic life in The Woodlands since August 8, 1979, when the parish was officially established with the signing ...Missing: Texas? | Show results with:Texas?
URL: https://ssjwoodlands.com/who-we-are

[St. Anthony of Padua Campus - St Anthony of Padua Catholic Church]
We are here to help you grow in your relationship with God no matter where you are on life’s journey. Through prayer, the sacraments, service, and teaching we strive to build a community of disciples here in The Woodlands.
URL: https://ap.churchcenter.com/home


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [St. Anthony of Padua | Catholic Church in The Woodlands, TX] ---
Daily Mass Monday: 9 AM • Our Lady of the Angels Chapel (OLA) Tuesday: 9 AM & 6:45 PM • OLA Chapel Wednesday: 6 AM and 8:30 AM • Main Church Thursday: 9 AM and 6:45 PM • OLA Chapel Friday: 9 AM • OLA Chapel Saturday*: 10 AM • OLA Chapel *The First Saturday of every month, Daily Mass will be moved to the Main Church. We, the people of St. Anthony of Padua, are a joyful Roman Catholic Community. We believe Our Lord calls us beyond membership to become His true disciples and live as One Body in Christ. Therefore, we choose to use our unique gifts to build a welcoming, interconnected gathering of the faithful that will be a beacon, a light to the world. Parish Mission Statement – Adopted on September 8, 1998 (Birthday of Our Lady) Confession (OLA Chapel) Tuesday: 5 PM - 6:30 PM • English Only Wednesday: 6 PM - 8 PM • English and Español Thursday: 5 PM - 6:30 PM • English and Español Saturday*: 8 AM - 10 AM • English and Español *The First Saturday of every month, Confessions will be moved to the Main Church. Every Saturday we have nursery available. Pre-registration is required. MAIN CHURCH PARISH OFFICE 7801 Bay Branch Dr The Woodlands, TX 77382 OUR LADY OF THE ANGELS CHAPEL 8715 Kuykendahl Rd The Woodlands, TX 77382 ST ANTHONY'S BREAD FOOD PANTRY 7985 Bay Branch Dr The Woodlands, TX 77382


--- [Sts. Simon and Jude Catholic Parish marks 40 years in The Woodlands] ---
No content


--- [About Our School - St. Anthony of Padua Catholic School] ---
Instill Roman Catholic identity, reverence for the sacraments and a lifelong commitment to joyful discipleship; Enrich students by fostering academic excellence and providing opportunities that nurture and challenge all to reach their full potential; Develop, with parents, the moral compass that guides students to serve with Jesus Christ as their model. The vision of St. Anthony of Padua Catholic School is to guide the mind, body, and spirit of the next generation of Catholic leaders to live the Gospel of Jesus Christ as beacons of light to the world. St. Anthony of Padua Catholic School, in partnership with parents, is focused on the continuous formation of the whole Christian person. Our learner-centered curriculum maintains high academic standards and nurtures the development of a life-long love of learning. Students are actively engaged through the use of a variety of instructional methods and emerging technologies that promote collaboration and higher level thinking skills. Within a welcoming, Christ-centered environment, students are made aware of their role as members of the Christian community through the teaching of Catholic doctrine, participation in liturgy and worship, preparation for the sacraments and involvement in service projects. Members of our school community are encouraged to live as Disciples of Christ, serving all people by sharing the gifts and talents received from God. Our parish and school are named after St. Anthony of Padua. He is one of the most loved and admired saints in the Catholic Church. St. Anthony is most often depicted holding the baby Jesus for legend has it that Jesus, in His infant form, appeared to St. Anthony while he was in his room praying. He was made a Doctor of the Church by Pope Pius XII in 1946. He first joined the Augustinian Order and then left it and joined the Franciscan Order. He became a Franciscan because of the death of five Franciscans in Morocco, in North Africa. St. Anthony wanted to profess the Catholic Faith with his mind and his heart, at every moment. St. Anthony of Padua is known as the patron saint of lost articles. St. Anthony of Padua was canonized less than one year after his death. St. Anthony of Padua Parish was founded on June 3, 1997. Archbishop Joseph Fiorenza issued the challenge of establishing a new church community and school to serve the needs of Catholic families in The Woodlands, Texas. Under the leadership of Msgr. George Sheltz, Pastor, the parish took seriously the challenge to open a Catholic school and work began to complete a feasibility study, seek approval from the Archdiocesan Board of Education and write the school’s mission statement. In September 2000, Renee’ Nunez was hired as the school’s founding principal. She along with the Education Council worked to develop the school’s philosophy, and governing polices. A staff was hired in the spring of 2001 and the doors opened for students on August 16, 2001. Enrollment has grown from 138 in 2001 to close to 500. In August 2005, the school’s operations moved into a permanent home . A gymnasium, stage, specialty classrooms, computer lab, library/media center, clinic, classroom projection systems, enrichment programs, services, and activities for students. New athletic fields were constructed in the fall of 2006 and dedicated during National Catholic Schools Week 2007. 2007 was marked as the year that SAOPCS became a fully accredited school with the Texas Catholic Conference Education Department, TCCED. Just a few years later, in 2012, the young 10-year old school was named as the first Catholic school in the area to receive recognition as a United States Department of Education Blue Ribbon School of Excellence. In 2013, the school received dual accreditation through AdvancED. In 2016, Veronica Tucker was appointed the second principal of St. Anthony of Padua Catholic School. In 2021, Father Jesse Garcia was appointed the 4th pastor of St. Anthony of Padua Catholic Church. Come, St. Anthony of Padua, guide us in our youth strengthen us in faith enlighten us in truth. As we are united in the Eucharist, enriched in sacraments of love, through honor, integrity, and excellence, may we bring glory to God above. WE WILL SING A SONG OF LOVE WE WILL SING OF GOD’S OWN GRACE. WE WILL SING A JOYFUL SONG OF HOW WE LEARN IN THIS HOLY PLACE OH WE PRAY TO DEAR ST. ANTHONY TO GUIDE US ON OUR WAY. TO HEAVEN’S GATES ETERNALLY AS WE LEARN TO LOVE AND PRAY. ST. ANTHONY OF PADUA OUR SCHOOL WE LOVE SO TRUE. MAY WE GROW THROUGH FAITH AND WORKS EACH DAY WE WILL ALWAYS REMEMBER YOU. THROUGH JESUS IN THE EUCHARIST, OUR FOOD TO GROW AND LIVE. WE WILL READ AND WRITE AND PLAY AND SING AND ALL THE THANKS TO GOD WE’LL GIVE.


--- [Who We Are | Sts. Simon & Jude Catholic Church | The Woodlands, TX] ---
Starting in 1996, Alexa Internet has been donating their crawl data to the Internet Archive. Flowing in every day, these data are added to the Wayback Machine after an embargo period. Starting in 1996, Alexa Internet has been donating their crawl data to the Internet Archive. Flowing in every day, these data are added to the Wayback Machine after an embargo period. TIMESTAMPS The Wayback Machine - https://web.archive.org/web/20151209230240/http://www.ssjwoodlands.com:80/who-we-are/


--- [St. Anthony of Padua Campus - St Anthony of Padua Catholic Church] ---
Platform Admin Skip to content Church Center requires JavaScript to be enabled. Here are some instructions to enable JavaScript in your web browser .
