=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Glacier Quick Facts | National Snow and Ice Data Center]
What is a glacier? A glacier is an accumulation of ice and snow that slowly flows over land. Alpine glaciers are frozen rivers of ice, slowly flowing under their own weight down mountainsides and into valleys. Ice sheets exist only on Greenland and Antarctica, and they spread out in broad domes in multiple directions.
URL: https://nsidc.org/learn/parts-cryosphere/glaciers/glacier-quick-facts

[Glaciers - National Snow and Ice Data Center]
What is a glacier? A glacier is an accumulation of ice and snow that slowly flows over land. At higher elevations, more snow typically falls than melts, adding to its mass. Eventually, the surplus of built-up ice begins to flow downhill. At lower elevations, there is usually a higher rate of melt or icebergs break off that removes ice mass. Alpine glaciers are frozen rivers of ice, slowly ...
URL: https://nsidc.org/learn/parts-cryosphere/glaciers

[Science of Glaciers | National Snow and Ice Data Center]
What is the lifecycle of a glacier, and what factors influence its lifecycle? The amount of precipitation, whether in the form of snowfall, freezing rain, avalanches, or wind-drifted snow, is important to glacier survival. For instance, in very dry parts of Antarctica, low temperatures are ideal for glacier growth, but the small amount of net annual precipitation causes the glaciers to grow ...
URL: https://nsidc.org/learn/parts-cryosphere/glaciers/science-glaciers

[Why Glaciers Matter | National Snow and Ice Data Center]
Glacier melt delivers nutrients into lakes, rivers, and oceans. Those nutrients can drive blooms of phytoplankton—the base of aquatic and marine food chains. Meanwhile, gradual glacier melt sustains stream habitats for plants and animals. So, glaciers often have an indirect impact on wildlife and fisheries.
URL: https://nsidc.org/learn/parts-cryosphere/glaciers/why-glaciers-matter

[Learn - National Snow and Ice Data Center]
Quick facts, basic science, and information about snow, ice, and why the cryosphere matters The cryosphere includes all of the snow and ice-covered regions across the planet.
URL: https://nsidc.org/learn


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Glacier Quick Facts | National Snow and Ice Data Center] ---
Glaciers Quick Facts What is a glacier? A glacier is an accumulation of ice and snow that slowly flows over land. Alpine glaciers are frozen rivers of ice, slowly flowing under their own weight down mountainsides and into valleys. Ice sheets exist only on Greenland and Antarctica, and they spread out in broad domes in multiple directions. How does a glacier form? Glaciers begin to form when snow remains and accumulates long enough to transform into ice. Each year, new layers of snow bury and compress the previous layers. This compression forces the snow to re-crystallize, initially forming grains similar in size and shape to grains of sugar. Gradually, the grains grow larger and the air pockets between the grains get smaller, causing the snow to slowly compact and increase in density. After about a year, the snow turns into firn—an intermediate state between snow and glacier ice. At this point, it is about two-thirds as dense as water. Over time, larger ice crystals become so compressed that any air pockets between them are tiny. In very old glacier ice, crystals can reach the size of an adult fist. For most glaciers, this process takes more than a hundred years. Is an ice sheet different from a glacier? An ice sheet is a mass of glacial land ice extending more than 50,000 square kilometers (19,300 square miles). There are only two ice sheets on Earth today: the Greenland Ice Sheet and the Antarctic Ice Sheet. During the last ice age, ice sheets also covered much of North America and Scandinavia. Together, the Antarctic and Greenland Ice Sheets contain more than 70 percent of the freshwater ice on Earth. The Antarctic Ice Sheet extends almost 14 million square kilometers (5.4 million square miles), roughly the area of the contiguous United States and Mexico combined. The Antarctic Ice Sheet contains 30 million cubic kilometers (7.2 million cubic miles) of ice. The Greenland Ice Sheet extends about 1.7 million square kilometers (656,000 square miles), covering most of the island of Greenland, and is about three times the size of Texas. What are ice caps and icefields? An ice cap is a type of glacier, covering less than 50,000 square kilometers (20,000 square miles). Like ice sheets, ice caps tend to spread out in dome-like shapes as opposed to flowing down slopes. Ice caps form in high-latitude polar and subpolar mountain regions. Northern Europe is home to many ice caps; for example, the Vatnajökull ice cap in Iceland and the Austfonna ice cap in the Svalbard archipelago of Norway, which is the largest (in area) in Scandinavia. The largest ice cap in the world is the Severny Island ice cap, part of the Novaya Zemlya archipelago in the Russian Arctic. An icefield is a a mass of glacier ice, somewhat similar to an ice cap, but usually smaller and lacking a dome-like shape. compared to an ice cap, an icefield is more strongly influenced by underlying terrain. What is an iceberg? Icebergs are large floating chunks of ice, detached from a glacier, such as an alpine glacier or ice sheet, and carried out to the ocean. The word iceberg literally means ice mountain, berg borrowed from German. Icebergs come in all shapes and sizes, from ice-cube-sized chunks to ice islands the size of a small country. The term “iceberg” refers to chunks of ice larger than 5 meters (16 feet) across. Smaller icebergs, known as bergy bits and growlers, can be especially dangerous for ships because they are harder to spot. The North Atlantic and the cold waters surrounding Antarctica are home to most of the icebergs on Earth. Antarctic ice shelves may calve icebergs that are over 80 kilometers (50 miles) long. How do icebergs form, and where do they go? Icebergs form when chunks of ice calve, or break off, from glaciers, ice shelves, or a larger iceberg. Icebergs travel with ocean currents, sometimes smashing up against the shore or getting caught in shallow waters. When an iceberg reaches warm waters, the new climate attacks it from all sides. On the iceberg surface, warm air melts snow and ice into pools called melt ponds that can trickle through the iceberg and widen cracks. At the same time, warm water laps at the iceberg edges, melting the ice and causing chunks of ice to break off. On the underside, warmer waters melt the iceberg from the bottom up. Why are icebergs important? Icebergs pose a danger to ships traversing the North Atlantic and the waters around Antarctica. After the Titanic sank near Newfoundland in 1912, the United States and twelve other countries formed the International Ice Patrol to warn ships of icebergs in the North Atlantic. The International Ice Patrol uses airplanes and radars to track icebergs that float into major shipping lanes. The U.S. National Ice Center uses satellite data to monitor icebergs near Antarctica. However, it only tracks icebergs larger than 500 square meters (5,400 square feet). Icebergs can also serve as tools for scientists, who study them to learn more about climate and ocean processes. Why do scientists study icebergs? Climate scientists study icebergs as they break up for clues to the processes that cause ice shelf collapse. Scientists have noticed that the way icebergs break up when they reach warmer waters mirrors the disintegration of Antarctic ice shelves. By studying the factors that cause icebergs to break up, researchers hope to better understand the influences that lead to ice shelf breakup, and to better predict how ice shelves will respond to a warming climate. Oceanographers follow icebergs because the cold fresh water they contribute to the sea can influence currents and ocean circulation far away from their origins. Biologists study icebergs to find out how they influence ocean life. As icebergs melt, they leak nutrients into the surrounding ocean. Recent studies have shown that the water surrounding icebergs teems with plankton, fish, and other sea life. How much glacial ice is on Earth? Presently, 10 percent of land area on Earth is covered with glacial ice, including glaciers, ice caps, and the ice sheets of Greenland and Antarctica. Glacierized areas cover over 15 million square kilometers (5.8 million square miles). During the maximum point of the last ice age, which ended about 12,000 years ago, glaciers covered about 32 percent of the total land area. The Antarctic continent has been at least partially covered by an ice sheet for the past 40 million years. Starting around the early fourteenth century, and lasting to the mid-nineteenth century, the world experienced a “Little Ice Age,” when temperatures were consistently cool enough for glaciers to advance in many areas of the world. In the United States, glaciers currently cover over 90,000 square kilometers (35,000 square miles). Most of those glaciers are located in Alaska, which holds 87,000 square kilometers (34,000 square miles) of glacial ice. How big can glacial ice get? The largest glacier, by area, is the Seller Glacier on the Antarctic Peninsula, measuring over 7,000 square kilometers (2,700 square miles). The largest ice crystals that make up a glacier can be as large as apples. However, there are many other ice masses on Earth that are much larger than the largest glacier. For example, glacier complexes such as icefields and ice caps can get as big as 80,000 square kilometers (31,000 square miles). Ice sheets such as the ones on Greenland and Antarctica are larger still. Greenland is 1.7 million square kilometers (656,400 square miles), and Antarctica is 12.3 million square kilometers (4,750,000 square miles). There are over 200,000 glaciers distinct from the ice sheets; and if all of these glaciers were to melt, they would increase sea level by just under half a meter (1.6 feet). If the entire Antarctic Ice Sheet melted, sea level would rise about 60 meters (197 feet). If the entire Greenland Ice Sheet melted, sea level would rise about 7.4 meters (24.3 feet). The Lambert–Amery glacial system is the largest drainage system in East Antarctica with an area greater than 1,550,000 square kilometers (600,000 square miles), which is approximately 16 percent of the total area of East Antarctica. Antarctic ice is up to 4.9 kilometers (3 miles) thick in some areas. The land underneath parts of the West Antarctic Ice Sheet may be up to 2.5 kilometers (1.6 miles) below sea level. The Kutiah Glacier in Pakistan holds the record for the fastest glacial surge. In 1953, it raced more than 12 kilometers (7.5 miles) in three months, averaging about 112 meters (367 feet) per day. Which glaciers are the largest on Earth? Different measurements can determine the world's largest glaciers such its length, area, volume, or mass. Length and area are easily obtained from satellite imagery. Volume and mass are more difficult because thickness and density (for mass) cannot currently be calculated from satellites. The world’s largest glaciers by area are found in Antarctica, where large amounts of ice have accumulated—over long time periods—in spite of low annual precipitation because of the continent's low temperatures and relatively flat topography. The largest glacier in the world is Seller Glacier with an area of 7,018 square kilometers (2,710 square miles) located on the Antarctic Peninsula. This is slightly larger than the state of Delaware or slightly smaller than the Greek island of Crete. Thurston Island Glacier No. 1 is the second largest with an area of 5,261 square kilometers (2,031 square miles) and the third largest is Alexander Island Glacier No. 1 with an area of 4,766 square kilometers (1,840 square miles); both are located on Antarctic islands. Outside Antarctica, the largest glaciers are Malaspina-Seward Glacier in Alaska with an area of 3,363 square kilometers (1,298 square miles), followed by Wykeham Glacier South in the Canadian Arctic with an area of 3,176 square kilometers (1,226 square miles), and then Bering Glacier in Alaska with an area of 3,025 square kilometers (1,168 square miles). Although Bering Glacier is the eighth largest glacier in the world by area, it is the longest in the world measuring 196 kilometers (122 miles) long. How much water does glacial ice hold? Glaciers and ice caps store about 68.7 percent of the world's fresh water, according to the US Geological Survey. If all land ice melted, sea level would rise approximately 70 meters (230 feet) worldwide. Together, the Antarctic and Greenland Ice Sheets contain over 99 percent of the freshwater ice on Earth. The amount of fresh water stored in both the Antarctic and Greenland Ice Sheets totals over 68 percent of all the fresh water on Earth. There are over 200,000 glaciers distinct from the ice sheets; and if all of these glaciers were to melt, they would increase sea level by just under half a meter (1.6 feet). If the Greenland Ice Sheet were to melt, it would increase sea level by approximately 7.4 meters (24.3 feet); and if the Antarctic Ice Sheet were to melt, it would increase sea level by almost 60 meters (197 feet). Why is glacial ice sometimes blue? Glacial ice often appears blue when it has become very dense and free of bubbles. Years of compression gradually make the ice denser over time, forcing out the tiny air pockets between crystals. Ice absorbs a small amount of red light. When glacier ice becomes extremely dense, light travels deep into the ice before reflecting and refracting back out, leaving a bluish tint in the visible light. White glacier ice still has many tiny air bubbles in it, reflecting light much sooner before enough red light is noticeably absorbed.


--- [Glaciers - National Snow and Ice Data Center] ---
Glaciers Overview What is a glacier? A glacier is an accumulation of ice and snow that slowly flows over land. At higher elevations, more snow typically falls than melts, adding to its mass. Eventually, the surplus of built-up ice begins to flow downhill. At lower elevations, there is usually a higher rate of melt or icebergs break off that removes ice mass. Alpine glaciers are frozen rivers of ice, slowly flowing under their own weight down mountainsides and into valleys. Glaciers also exist on the fringes of ice sheets. Ice sheets cover entire continents. During the Last Glacial Maximum, roughly 20,000 years ago, the Laurentide Ice Sheet covered much of North America, and its weight created basins that now hold the Great Lakes. Currently, there are only two ice sheets on Earth: the Antarctic and Greenland Ice Sheets. What is an ice sheet? An ice sheet is a mass of glacial ice that sits on land and extends more than 50,000 square kilometers (19,300 square miles). Ice sheets once covered much of the Northern Hemisphere during a series of Pleistocene Ice Ages. Now, Earth has just two ice sheets, one covers most of Greenland, the largest island in the world, and the other spans across the Antarctic continent. Ice sheets are constantly in motion, spreading out from broad domes. Together, the Antarctic and Greenland Ice Sheets contain more than 99 percent of the freshwater ice on Earth. The amount of fresh water stored in both the Antarctic and Greenland Ice Sheets total over 68 percent of the fresh water on Earth. The Antarctic Ice Sheet extends almost 14 million square kilometers (5.4 million square miles), roughly the area of the contiguous United States and Mexico combined. The Greenland Ice Sheet extends about 1.7 million square kilometers (656,000 square miles), covering 80 percent of the world’s largest island, and is equivalent to about three times the size of Texas. Both ice sheets measure on average about 2 kilometers (1 mile) thick. If the entire Antarctic Ice Sheet melted, sea level would rise about 60 meters (197 feet). If the entire Greenland Ice Sheet melted, sea level would rise about 7.4 meters (24.3 feet). What are ice caps and icefields? An ice cap is a dome-shaped glacier with an area less than 50,000 square kilometers (19,300 square miles) that flows in all directions and covers much of the underlying topography. Ice caps form in high-latitude polar and subpolar mountain regions. Northern Europe is home to many ice caps; for example, the Vatnajökull ice cap in Iceland and the Austfonna ice cap in the Svalbard archipelago of Norway, which is the largest (in area) in Scandinavia. The largest ice cap in the world is the Severny Island ice cap, part of the Novaya Zemlya archipelago in the Russian Arctic. An icefield is a mass of glacier ice, somewhat similar to an ice cap, but usually smaller and lacking a dome-like shape. Compared to an ice cap, an icefield is more strongly influenced by underlying terrain. Ice caps are also found in mountain ranges like the Himalaya, Rockies, Andes, and the Southern Alps of New Zealand. What is an iceberg? Icebergs are large floating chunks of ice, detached from a glacier, such as an alpine glacier or ice sheet, and carried out to a lake or the ocean. The word iceberg literally means ice mountain, berg borrowed from German. Icebergs come in all shapes and sizes, from ice-cube-sized chunks to ice islands the size of a small country. The term “iceberg” refers to chunks of ice larger than 5 meters (16 feet) across. Smaller icebergs, known as bergy bits and growlers, can be especially dangerous for ships because they are harder to spot. The North Atlantic and the cold waters surrounding Antarctica are home to most of the icebergs on Earth. Antarctic ice shelves may calve icebergs that are over 80 kilometers (50 miles) long. How do glaciers form? Glaciers begin to form when snow remains in the same area year round, where enough snow accumulates to transform into ice. Each year, new layers of snow bury and compress the previous layers. This compression forces the snow to recrystallize, initially forming grains similar to the size and shape of sugar grains. Gradually, the grains grow larger and the air pockets between the grains get smaller, causing the snow to slowly compact and increase in density. After about a year, the snow turns into firn—an intermediate state between snow and glacier ice. At this point, it is about two-thirds as dense as water. Over time, larger ice crystals become so compressed that any air pockets between them are very tiny. In very old glacier ice, crystals can reach the size of an adult fist. For most glaciers, this process takes more than a hundred years. Where are glaciers? The world's glaciers have an estimated total area of about 700,000 square kilometers (270,000 square miles). Most of the world’s glacier ice is in Antarctica. Glaciers are often found near the poles, but glaciers exist on all the world’s continents except Australia. Although Australia has no glaciers, it is considered part of Oceania. Oceania glaciers can be found in New Zealand and Western New Guinea. Most glaciers are found in regions of high snowfall in winter and low temperatures in summer. These conditions ensure that the snow that accumulates in the winter is not completely lost during the summer. Examples of such regions are Alaska, Patagonia, and the Himalayas. The Arctic islands of Canada get much less snowfall, but it is cold enough through the year that glaciers can form. In short, glaciers form at high latitudes or high elevations. Closer to the equator, higher elevations are required for needed snowfall and lower temperatures.


--- [Science of Glaciers | National Snow and Ice Data Center] ---
Glaciers Science What is the lifecycle of a glacier, and what factors influence its lifecycle? The amount of precipitation, whether in the form of snowfall, freezing rain, avalanches, or wind-drifted snow, is important to glacier survival. For instance, in very dry parts of Antarctica, low temperatures are ideal for glacier growth, but the small amount of net annual precipitation causes the glaciers to grow very slowly, or even to disappear because of sublimation, when solids transition directly to gas. Growing A glacier forms when snow accumulates over time, turns to ice, and begins to flow outwards and downwards under the pressure of its own weight. In their upper parts, glaciers generally accumulate more snow than they lose from melting, evaporation, or calving. If the accumulated snow survives one melt season, it forms a denser, more compressed layer called firn. The snow and firn are further compressed by overlying snowfall, and the buried layers slowly grow together to form a thickened mass of ice. Each year’s new snowfall continues to compact the underlying layers, and the snow grains become larger ice crystals randomly oriented in connected air spaces. These ice crystals can eventually grow to become several centimeters in diameter. As compression continues and the ice crystals grow, the air spaces in the layers decrease, becoming small and isolated. This compaction compresses more air spaces out of the snowpack, and compacts the remaining air into bubbles. At greater depth (hundreds of meters), the air in these bubbles occupies smaller spaces the crystal structure of the ice. Thus, dense glacial ice has no air bubbles, but contains trapped air nevertheless. Moving forward Under the pressure of its own weight, a glacier will begin to move, or flow, outwards and downwards. Valley glaciers flow down valleys, and continental ice sheets flow outward in all directions. Glaciers move by internal deformation of the ice, and by sliding over the rocks and sediments at the base. The weight of overlying snow, firn, and ice, and the pressure exerted by upstream and downstream ice deforms glacier ice, in a phenomenon known as creep. A glacier may slide on a thin layer of water at its base. This water may come from glacial melting due to the pressure of the overlying ice, or from water that has worked its way through cracks in the glacier. Glaciers can also readily slide on a soft sediment bed that has some water in it. This is known as basal sliding and may account for most of the movement of thin, cold glaciers on steep slopes or only 10 to 20 percent of the movement of warm, thick glaciers lying on gentle slopes. Accelerations caused by ice flowing over and around obstacles, as well as friction between ice and solid bedrock at glacier margins, create stresses that exceed the strength of ice. Under these conditions, ice fractures, creating crevasses In retreat Glacier retreat results from multiple causes, depending on the location: melt, ablation, evaporation, wind scouring, and calving. Ablation is a natural and seasonal part of glacier life. As long as snow accumulation equals or is greater than melt and ablation, a glacier will remain in balance or even grow. Once snowfall decreases, or melt increases, the glacier will begin to retreat. Some biological processes, such as microbes on the surface of a glacier, can reduce the glacier's ability to reflect sunlight back into space. These bio albedo processes can hasten glacier retreat. As they flow, glaciers plow up or push aside rocks and debris, which are then left behind when the glacier recedes. Then, as large glaciers retreat, the underlying ground surface is typically abraded of most materials, leaving only scars and debris on the underlying bedrock surface. Over the past 60 to 100 years, glaciers worldwide have tended to retreat. Tidewater glaciers, which flow through valleys out to sea, are susceptible to retreat at the point where the ice meets relatively warm ocean water. Alpine glaciers, because of their relatively small size and sensitivity to changes in temperature and precipitation, seem particularly susceptible to retreat. The World Glacier Monitoring Service (WGMS) has maintained long records of glacier mass balance—whether a glacier loses or gains mass over the course of a year. The WGMS tracks changes in 140 alpine glaciers, and 37 of them qualify as climate reference glaciers, with records spanning more than 30 years. The American Meteorological Society reported in State of the Climate in 2021 that alpine glaciers around the world continued to lose mass for the 34th consecutive year, with global glaciers over the last 13 consecutive years losing an average of 500 millimeters (19.7 inches) in water equivalent thickness. Overall, glacial melt mass loss is increasing. The average mass loss per decade was 214 millimeters (8.4 inches) in the 1980s, 499 millimeters (19.7 inches) in the 1990s, 527 millimeters in the 2000s (20.7 inches), and 896 millimeters (35.3 inches) in the 2010s. In 2018, WGMS also recorded that from 1980 to 2018, the cumulative mass-balance change was a loss of 21.7 meters (71.2 feet), describing that change as “the equivalent of cutting a 24-meter-thick slice off the top of the average glacier.” The causes of widespread retreat are varied, but the underlying primary causes are a warming climate and the effects of increased soot and dust in areas of higher agricultural and industrial activity. How glaciers move The sheer weight of a thick layer of ice, or the force of gravity on the ice mass, causes glaciers to flow. Ice is a soft material, in comparison to rock, and is much more easily deformed by this relentless pressure of its own weight. Ice may flow down mountain valleys, fan out across plains, or in some locations, spread out onto the sea. Movement along the underside of a glacier is slower than movement at the top due to the friction with the underlying ground's surface. Where the base of the glacier is very cold, the movement at the bottom can be a tiny fraction of the speed of flow at the surface. Sometimes a glacier slides over a thin water layer at the glacier's base. The water may result from glacial melt driven by pressure of the overlying ice, or from water working its way through glacier cracks to the base. Glaciers can also slide on a soft, watery sediment bed. This basal sliding may account for most of the movement of thin, cold glaciers on steep slopes. Warm, thick glaciers on gentle slopes owe less of their movement to basal sliding. Though this depends on the glacier and the nature of the bed underneath. For instance, Columbia Glacier in Alaska, is a big warm low-angled glacier that mostly moves by sliding. Glaciers periodically retreat or advance, depending on the amount of snow accumulation or evaporation or melt that occurs. This retreat and advance refers only to the position of the terminus, or snout, of the glacier. Even as it retreats, the glacier still deforms and moves down slope, like a conveyor belt. In other words, a retreating glacier does not flow uphill; it simply melts faster than it flows. Glaciers may surge, racing forward several meters per day for weeks or even months. In 1986, the Hubbard Glacier in Alaska surged at the rate of 10 meters (32 feet) per day across the mouth of Russell Fjord. In only two months, the glacier had dammed water in the fjord and created a lake. These types of glaciers tend to surge periodically, while most glaciers never exhibit surges. Components of a glacier Glaciers are dynamic, and several elements contribute to glacier formation and growth. Snow falls in the accumulation area, usually the part of the glacier with the highest elevation, adding to the glacier's mass. As the snow slowly accumulates and turns to ice, and the glacier increases in weight, the weight begins to deform the ice, forcing the glacier to flow downhill. Further down the glacier, usually at a lower altitude, is the ablation area, where most of the melting and evaporation occur. Between these two areas a balance is reached, where snowfall equals snowmelt, and the glacier is in equilibrium. Whenever this equilibrium is disturbed, either by increased snowfall or by excessive melting, the glacier either advances or retreats at more than its normal pace. Several visible features are common to most glaciers: Terminus The terminus is the end of a glacier, usually the lowest end, and is also often called a glacier toe or snout. Crevasses Crevasse are cracks in glacier ice. At locations where a glacier flows rapidly, friction creates these giant cracks. Crevasses may form on the glacier surface, on its underbelly, or on the sides. During fieldwork, crevasses can pose a safety hazard to researchers. Ogives Ogives are bands that form on some glaciers just below icefalls. The bands alternate in both height and color, and result from seasonal patterns. Darker bands form through increased melt and refreezing in the summer, when sediment collects on the glacier surface. Lighter bands form in cooler months, when snow accumulates and traps tiny air bubbles. Because the ice flows faster down the center of the glacier, where it has less friction with surrounding bedrock, the ogives are shaped into arcs that point towards the end of the glacier. Icefalls Icefalls often occur when glaciers flow over a steep drop. That portion of glacier ice flows faster and becomes heavily crevassed. Glacier caves Glacier caves form within the ice of a glacier. Glacier caves are often carved out by water running through or under the glacier's ice. The process of melt can add components to a glacier, including supraglacial lakes (meltwater surface ponds) and moulins (nearly vertical channels formed by meltwater). Glacier mice sometimes thrive on glacial surfaces. These mice are not rodents, but instead balls of moss containing tiny ecosystems. Blobs of dust or organic debris become the nuclei of glacier mice, and as the clumps are battered by wind, they roll around on glacier surfaces, gathering moss. Examinations of glacier-mice interiors have found springtails, tardigrades, and nematode worms. Types of glaciers Alpine glaciers Alpine glaciers develop in high mountainous regions, often flowing out of icefields that span several peaks or even a mountain range. The largest mountain glaciers are found in Arctic Canada, Alaska, the Andes in South America, and the Himalaya in Asia. Valley glaciers Valley commonly originate from mountain glaciers or icefields, these glaciers spill down valleys, looking much like giant tongues. Valley glaciers may be very long, often flowing down beyond the snow line, sometimes reaching sea level. Tidewater glaciers Tidewater glaciers are valley glaciers that flow far enough to reach the sea. In some locations, tidewater glaciers provide breeding habitats for seals. Tidewater glaciers are responsible for calving numerous icebergs, which although not as imposing as Antarctic icebergs, can still pose problems for shipping lanes. Piedmont glaciers Piedmont glaciers occur when valley glaciers spill into relatively flat plains, where they spread out into bulb-like lobes. Malaspina Glacier in Alaska is one of the most famous examples of this type of glacier, and is the largest piedmont glacier in the world. Spilling out of the Seward Icefield, Malaspina Glacier covers about 3,900 square kilometers (1,500 square miles) as it spreads across the coastal plain. Hanging glaciers Hanging glaciers occur when a major valley glacier system retreats and thins, leaving the tributary glaciers in smaller valleys high above the shrunken central glacier surface. If the entire system has melted and disappeared, the empty high valleys are called hanging valleys. Cirque glaciers Cirque glaciers are named for the bowl-like hollows they occupy, which are called cirques. Typically, they are found high on mountainsides and tend to be wide rather than long. Ice aprons Ice aprons are small, steep glaciers that cling to high mountainsides. Like cirque glaciers, they are often wider than they are long. Ice aprons are common in the Alps and in New Zealand, where they often cause avalanches because of the steep inclines they occupy. Rock glaciers Rock glaciers are mixtures of ice and rock, with high concentrations of rock throughout. Although these glaciers have similar shapes and movements as regular glaciers, their ice may be confined to the glacier core, or may simply fill spaces between rocks. Rock glaciers may form when frozen ground creeps down slope. They may also accumulate ice, snow, and rocks through avalanches or landslides. Ice caps Ice caps are miniature ice sheets, covering less than 50,000 square kilometers (19,300 square miles). They form primarily in polar and subpolar regions and are smaller than continental-scale ice sheets. Icefields Icefields are similar to ice caps, except that their flow is influenced by the underlying topography, and they are typically smaller than ice caps. Ice streams Ice streams are large ribbon-like glaciers set within an ice sheet—they are bordered by ice that is flowing more slowly, rather than by rock outcrop or mountain ranges. These huge masses of flowing ice are often very sensitive to changes such as the loss of ice shelves at their terminus or changing amounts of water flowing beneath them. The Antarctic ice sheet has many ice streams. Ice sheets The only ice sheets on Earth currently cover Antarctica and Greenland. Ice sheets are enormous continental masses of glacial ice and snow expanding over 50,000 square kilometers (19,300 square miles). The ice sheet on Antarctica is over 4.7 kilometers (3 miles) thick in some areas, covering nearly all the land features except the Transantarctic Mountains, which protrude above the ice. Another example is the Greenland Ice Sheet. In the past ice ages, huge ice sheets also covered most of Canada (the Laurentide Ice Sheet) and Scandinavia (the Scandinavian Ice Sheet), but these have now disappeared, leaving only a few ice caps and mountain glaciers behind. Ice shelves Ice shelves occur when ice sheets extend over the sea and float on the water. They range from a few hundred meters to over 1 kilometer (0.62 mile) in thickness. Ice shelves surround most of the Antarctic continent. Research & data Glacial ice can be as old as several hundreds of thousands of years, making it valuable for climate research. To see a long-term climate record, scientists drill and extract ice cores from glaciers and ice sheets. Ice cores have been taken from around the world, including Peru, Canada, Greenland, Antarctica, Europe, and Asia. These cores are continuous records providing scientists with year-by-year information about past climate. Scientists analyze various components of cores, particularly trapped air bubbles, which reveal past atmospheric composition, temperature variations, and types of vegetation. Glaciers preserve bits of atmosphere from thousands of years ago in these tiny air bubbles, or, deeper within the core, trapped within the ice itself. This is one way scientists know that there have been several Ice Ages. Past eras can be reconstructed, showing how and why climate changed, and how it might change in the future. As dramatic as the retreat of one glacier may be, scientists learn the most about global climate by studying many glaciers. The World Glacier Monitoring Service (WGMS) tracks changes in more than 100 alpine glaciers worldwide. Forty-two of those glaciers qualify as climate reference glaciers because their records span more than 30 years. The WGMS reports glacier mass balance changes in millimeters of water equivalence. (There are 25.4 millimeters in an inch.) If all the lost or gained glacial ice were converted to water and spread evenly over glacier surface area, the depth of that water layer is the water equivalence. In the 2021 State of the Climate, the American Meteorological Society reported that average annual glacier mass balance in 2020/2021 was -900 millimeters (35.4 inches) water equivalent. This was an increase from the -700 millimeters (27.6 inches) in 2019/2020. As of June 1, 2022, 31 of the 32 reference glaciers, from 12 nations on four continents, reported negative mass balances. Glacial research in High Mountain Asia From 2012 to 2018, NSIDC researchers collaborated with 11 Asian partners to get a clearer picture of freshwater origins for High Asia rivers. The Contribution to High Asia Runoff from Ice and Snow (CHARIS) project aimed to estimate how much river runoff comes from snowmelt, rain, or glacial melt to forecast the future availability and vulnerability of water resources in the High Asia region. The High Asia regions cover the Himalayan, Karakoram, Hindu Kush, Pamir, and Tien Shan mountain ranges and stretches into Bhutan, Nepal, India, Pakistan, Afghanistan, Kyrgyzstan, Uzbekistan, Kazakhstan, and Tajikistan, which depend on water from these mountain ranges and river basins. Approximately 45,000 glaciers spread out over High Asia. Prior to this effort, there was no systematic assessment of where water comes from. The CHARIS project, generously funded by USAID, helped its Asian partners conduct fieldwork, set up training workshops, funded the restoration of a glacier research hut in Kyrgyzstan, and helped build a state-of-the-art water chemistry lab in Bhutan, which previously had no labs to test water quality. A related project, sponsored by NASA, called Understanding Changes in High Mountain Asia uses remote sensing, modeling, and field observations to study changes in snow, glaciers, and hydrology in High Asia. The resulting data from this project can be found in the NASA NSIDC DAAC High Mountain Asia data collection. An overview of measurement techniques for ice sheet mass balance Scientists have adopted three general approaches to ice sheet mass balance measurement: comparing outflow and melt to snowfall accumulation (the mass budget method), observing changes in glacier elevation (volume change or geodetic method), and detecting changes in Earth’s gravity field over the ice sheet (gravimetric method). The study of ice sheet mass balance underwent two major advances, one during the early 1990s, and again early in the 2000s. At the beginning of the 1990s, scientists were unsure if the ice sheets were losing or gaining mass, and knew only that it could not be changing rapidly relative to the size of the ice sheet. Advances in glacier ice flow mapping using repeat satellite images, and later using interferometric synthetic aperture radar (SAR) methods, helped the mass budget approach. However, this method still requires an estimate of snow input and a cross-section of the glacier as it flows out from the continent and becomes floating ice. Satellite radar altimetry mapping and change detection, developed in the early to mid-1990s, allowed the research community to finally extract reliable quantitative information regarding the overall growth or reduction of the volume of the ice sheets. Like the 2002 publication, in which researchers were able to report that both large ice sheets were losing mass. In 2003, the launch of two new satellites—Ice, Cloud, and land Elevation Satellite (ICESat) and Gravity Recovery and Climate Experiment (GRACE)—led to vast improvements in one of the methods for mass balance determination, volume change, and introduced the ability to conduct gravimetric measurements of ice sheet mass over time. The gravimetric method helped to resolve remaining questions about how and where the ice sheets were losing mass. With this third method, and with continued evolution of mass budget and geodetic methods, it was shown that the ice sheets were, in fact, losing mass at an accelerating rate by the end of the 2000s. Data at NSIDC NSIDC archives and distributes open access data to better understand both the role glaciers play on Earth and how they are changing. Browse related open access data collections archived at NSIDC GLIMS: Global Land Ice Measurements from Space The NSIDC DAAC GLIMS data collection includes data from the Global Land Ice Measurements from Space (GLIMS) initiative. GLIMS is an international project to inventory the world’s glaciers and to create a comprehensive, global database of land ice through repeat surveys. High Mountain Asia (HMA) The NSIDC DAAC High Mountain Asia (HMA) collection includes data related to snow and ice in a region that stretches across five mountain ranges, including the Himalaya and Hindu Kush. The region covers parts of China, Afghanistan, Nepal, India, Pakistan, Bhutan, Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan, Kyrgyzstan, and Tajikistan. ICESat-2 The NSIDC DAAC ICESat-2 data collection includes data products derived from the Advanced Topographic Laser Altimeter System (ATLAS) instrument aboard the Ice, Cloud and land Elevation Satellite-2 (ICESat-2). ATLAS has a single laser split into six beams and arranged in three pairs to better gauge the slope of Earth's surface. ICESat-2 data products at the NSIDC DAAC describe elevations of sea ice, land ice, forest canopies, water height, urban areas, and more. Data observations span from late 2018 to present. ICESat/GLAS The NSIDC DAAC ICESat/GLAS collection includes data products derived from the Geoscience Laser Altimeter System (GLAS) instrument that flew on NASA's Ice, Cloud, and land Elevation (ICESat) satellite from 2003 to early 2010. Data products at the NSIDC DAAC describe elevations of ice sheets, glaciers, and sea ice, as well as height profiles of clouds and aerosols. MEaSUREs The NSIDC DAAC Making Earth System Data Records for Use in Research Environments (MEaSUREs) data collection includes data products derived from satellite data and created by researchers. Data products encompass snow, sea ice, glaciers, ice sheets, ice shelves, and freeze/thaw conditions, snow, and brightness temperatures. Spatial coverage ranges from global to continental, and temporal coverage ranges from the 1960s through the present. Additional NSIDC Resources Historical Glacier Photography The Glacier Photograph Collection is an online, searchable collection of glacier photographs, mostly taken in the Rocky Mountains, the Pacific Northwest, Alaska, and Greenland. The dates of the photographs range from the mid 1800s to the present day, providing a critical historical record. The collection also includes some glacier photographs in Europe, South America, the Himalayas, and Antarctica. As of August 2021, more than 25,000 glacier photographs are in the database.


--- [Why Glaciers Matter | National Snow and Ice Data Center] ---
Glaciers Why they matter Glaciers, slow-moving rivers of ice, have sculpted mountains and carved valleys throughout Earth's history. They continue to flow and shape the landscape in many places today. But glaciers affect much more than the landscape. Glacier melt delivers nutrients into lakes, rivers, and oceans. Those nutrients can drive blooms of phytoplankton—the base of aquatic and marine food chains. Meanwhile, gradual glacier melt sustains stream habitats for plants and animals. So, glaciers often have an indirect impact on wildlife and fisheries. In some regions, glaciers provide life-sustaining water for people as well as wildlife. For instance, the Amu Darya, a major river in Central Asia, derives part of its water supply from glacier melt. Averaged over the year, that melt accounts for only 8 percent of annual river flow, but it accounts for 27 percent of river flow in late summer, when snow melt provides relatively little water. Glaciers also impact sea level. The cryosphere consists of all the places on Earth where water is frozen, including snow, sea ice, ice sheets, and glaciers. Though glaciers and ice caps account for only 0.5 percent of total land ice, their contribution to sea level rise during the last century exceeded that of the ice sheets. Since then, however, ice sheets have caught up and are expected to play a more significant role in the future. Glaciers also can pose hazards to people living downstream. Glacier-fed lakes can breach their moraine dams, causing catastrophic floods. Hazards seem to be increasing in some places, as glacial lakes expand as a result of glacier shrinkage. Glaciers and people Today, glaciers are often tourist attractions in mountainous areas. But glaciers are also a natural resource, and people all over the world use the meltwater that glaciers produce. Glaciers provide drinking water People living in arid climates near mountains often rely on glacial melt for their water for part of the year. Many of the rivers coursing through China, India, and other parts of the Asian continent are fed largely by snowmelt from the Himalaya, but in late summer, a significant part of river flow comes from melting glaciers. In South America, residents of La Paz, Bolivia, rely on glacial melting from a nearby ice cap to provide water during the significant dry spells they sometimes experience. Demand for glacier water has increased in other, perhaps less expected ways, too. Some beverage companies sell bottles of glacial meltwater, and ice cubes made of glacier ice are popular in some specialty drinks. In fact, a Chilean man was arrested in 2012 for stealing five tons of ice from the Jorge Montt Glacier. He had planned to sell the ice to restaurants in the capital, Santiago. Glaciers irrigate crops In Switzerland's Rhone Valley, farmers have irrigated their crops for hundreds of years by channeling meltwater from glaciers to their fields. A local legend tells the story of villagers in Northern Pakistan growing glaciers to thwart Genghis Khan’s invasion. Beyond legends, the Hindu Kush, Himalaya, and Karakoram mountain ranges have a history of grafting glaciers to store water in the winter for slow release during the spring growing season. In Ladakh, India, the engineer Chewang Norphel earned the nickname of Ice Man after building over a dozen artificial "glaciers." Ladakh is a high, cold desert that receives only 50 to 70 millimeters (2 to 2.8 inches) of rain a year. Most of Ladakh’s water comes from snow melt and glacial melt. About 80 percent of the population relies on farming. According to Norphel, water shortage has been a concern for local farmers since the 1980s. Winters are severe in Ladakh, one of the highest regions in the world, located in northwestern India. Whatever water flows during the winter is lost. Natural glaciers are about 20 kilometers (12 miles) away from the village and because they are above 5,000 meters (16,000 ft), they begin to melt in June—past the sowing season when water is needed. So Norphel thought, what if there were glaciers at lower altitudes that could melt sooner to provide water during the early spring? He built his first, low-cost glacier in 1987. The process involves several steps. In November and December, water gets diverted to the shady side of the mountain by an intricate network of water channels and mini dams along the upper slope of the valley. This slows down the water and lets it freeze, as fast-flowing water would not. To ensure efficiency of water distribution, the artificial glaciers are placed at various altitudes like steps. When spring arrives, the glacier at the lowest altitude melts first. As temperatures continue to rise into summer, the higher glaciers melt to provide water later in the season. Ice stupas are the latest version of artificial glaciers. Designed by Sonam Wangchuk, a mechanical engineer from the Ladakh region, the ice stupa is a vertical cylinder of ice built in the middle of villages at lower elevations. The idea behind the shape is basic geometry in that there is little surface area exposed to the sun, so even when the sun is shining, the ice stupa remains frozen. To form an ice stupa, a pipe collects meltwater and extends into the shade of the mountain. The water is sprayed up and freezes as it falls through cold air. The first prototype was built in the 2013-2014 winter. It took a month to build the ice stupa, which was about 7 meters (22 feet) high. For more information, visit the Ice Stupa Project or the New Yorker’s, The Ice Stupas: Artificial glaciers at the edge of the Himalayas. Glaciers help generate hydroelectric power Scientists and engineers in Norway, Central Europe, Canada, New Zealand, and South America have worked together to tap into glacial resources, generating electricity by damming glacial meltwater. Are glaciers dangerous? Glaciers are usually found in remote mountainous areas. However, some are found near cities or towns and sometimes present a problem for people living close by. Lakes formed on top of or in front of a glacier may cause floods. At the terminus, or snout, of a valley glacier, ice falling from the glacier presents a hazard to hikers below. When ice breaks off in a lake or the ocean, an iceberg is formed, which can cause dangerous waves. Some examples of these hazards are listed below. Flooding caused by a glacier In high mountain regions, glaciers can be the root cause of several natural catastrophes. Although it is not uncommon for a glacier to have a small lake of meltwater near its terminus, extreme or unusually fast melting, or ice or rock avalanches into these lakes, can cause water to overflow their barriers and cause flooding downstream. These are called glacial lake outburst floods. Another dangerous case occurs when a glacier flows across a stream or river, creating a dam that can trap a large amount of water. In spring 1986, Hubbard Glacier in Alaska surged and blocked the outlet of Russell Fjord, entrapping a large lake. Over the summer, snowmelt continued to fill the lake. In October, the glacier-created dam gave way. The fjord reconnected to the ocean, only after releasing an enormous gush of water equivalent to about 35 Niagara Falls. In 1941 in Peru, up to 5,000 people perished after an earthquake sent a chunk of glacial ice into Lake Palcacocha, causing a flood wave to crash into the town of Huaraz below. Since then, glacial melt has bloated the lake. Pumps have been put in place to reduce the lake's level, but this may not be enough to prevent a future flood wave. As of 2021, about 50,000 people live in the danger zone in Huaraz. As mountain glaciers melt and recede, the glaciers' old terminal moraines often contain large glacial lakes like Lake Palcacocha. These glacial lakes are found throughout the world and can pose a significant flood hazard to downstream communities and infrastructure. Avalanches from glaciers Ice avalanches from glacier snouts have been recorded in the Swiss Alps for centuries, and they still occur despite attempts to prevent them. In 1965, the government of Switzerland was constructing a dam for a hydroelectric plant above the town of Mattmark. Without warning, an enormous mass of ice from the nearby Allalingletscher broke off. In mere seconds, the avalanche had rushed down the slopes and buried much of the construction camp, killing 88 workers. In September 2002, the Kolka Glacier surged in the Russian Republic of North Ossetia. The glacial debris flow, where enormous chunks of ice mixed with water and stone, broke loose and blazed down the valley, stripping trees along the slopes and towering over 100 meters (330 feet). The glacial avalanche buried the village of Nizhnii Karmadon and killed over 100 people. In August 2020, following several unusually warm days, officials in northwestern Italy evacuated part of an Alpine resort, fearing a huge portion of a Mont Blanc glacier could collapse and crash into the valley below. Glaciologists monitoring Planpincieux Glacier warned that about 500,000 cubic meters (17.7 million cubic feet) of ice, about the size of Milan’s cathedral, could slip off the glacier. Water flowing underneath could act like a slide. It would take less than two minutes for the mass to cover the road below. According to the European Geosciences Union, the Alps, where Mont Blanc is the highest mountain in Europe, could lose 50 percent of their glacier volume from 2017 to 2050. The threat of icebergs Icebergs that have broken off, or calved, from ice shelves and tidewater glaciers pose a significant threat to sea lanes worldwide. One of the most famous examples is the Titanic, which in April 1912 carried 1,503 passengers (68 percent of those onboard) to a watery grave after colliding with an iceberg that ripped a large hole in the ship. Shipping lanes along the coasts of Greenland and Newfoundland are historically iceberg-infested waters. Icebergs calved by glacial ice continue to present problems even today. In 1995, an enormous iceberg, over 80 kilometers (50 miles) long and 40 kilometers (25 miles) wide, broke away from the Larsen Ice Shelf in Antarctica. In March 2000, the largest well-documented iceberg in human history calved from the Ross Ice Shelf in Antarctica. Dubbed B-15, the iceberg measured 295 kilometers (183 miles) long and 37 kilometers (23 miles) wide. The iceberg drifted in the Southern Ocean for several years, gradually splintering into smaller pieces. Small pieces of the iceberg were spotted near New Zealand as late as December 2011. Because large icebergs may threaten shipping routes, they are carefully tracked by satellite and aerial surveys. Glaciers and the environment Glaciers not only transport material as they move, but they also sculpt and carve away the land beneath them. A glacier's weight, combined with its gradual movement, can drastically reshape the landscape over hundreds or even thousands of years. The ice erodes the land surface and carries the broken rocks and soil debris far from their original places, resulting in some interesting glacial landforms. Glacial erosion Common all over the world, glaciated valleys are probably the most readily visible glacial landform. Similar to fjords, they are trough-shaped, often with steep near-vertical cliffs where entire mountainsides were scoured by glacial movement. One of the most striking examples of glaciated valleys can be seen in Yosemite National Park, where glaciers literally sheared away mountainsides, creating deep valleys with vertical walls. Fjords, such as those in Norway, are long, narrow coastal valleys that were originally carved out by glaciers. They are often “U-shaped,” with steep sides and rounded bottoms, giving them a trough-like appearance. Once the glaciers receded, seawater covered the floor of the glacial trough to create fjords. The famous Matterhorn in Switzerland displays three types of glacial erosion: - Cirques are created when glaciers erode the mountainside, scouring into it and creating rounded hollows with steep uphill faces, shaped like tilted bowls. A cirque is often more visible after the glacier melts away and leaves the bowl-shaped landform behind. - Arêtes are jagged, narrow ridges created where the back walls of two glaciers meet, eroding the ridge on both sides. - Horns are created when several cirque glaciers erode a mountain until all that is left is a steep, pointed peak with sharp, ridge-like arêtes leading up to the top. Glacial landforms Fjords, glaciated valleys, and horns are all erosional types of landforms, created when a glacier cuts away at the landscape. Other types of glacial landforms are created by the features and sediments left behind after a glacier retreats. When glaciers retreat, they often deposit large mounds of gravel, small rocks, sand, and mud, called till. It is made from the rock and soil that was ground up beneath the glacier as it moved. Streams flowing from glaciers often carry some of the rock and soil debris out with them. These streams deposit the debris as they flow. Consequently, after many years, small steep-sided mounds of soil and gravel begin to form adjacent to the glacier, called kames. Eskers are meandering ridges of gravel that were likely deposited by rivers flowing on top of glaciers, through glacial cracks, and/or in tunnels under glaciers. Because glacier ice comprised the banks of these rivers, and that ice eventually melted away, the gravel deposited by the old rivers is now elevated above the surrounding land surfaces. Kettle lakes form when a piece of glacier ice breaks off and becomes buried by glacial till or moraine deposits. Over time, the ice melts, leaving a small depression in the land, filled with water. Kettle lakes are usually very small, more like ponds than lakes. Photo gallery of landforms Glacial grooves and striations Glacial grooves and striations are gouged or scratched into bedrock as the glacier moves downstream. Boulders and coarse gravel get trapped under the glacial ice, and abrade the land as the glacier pushes and pulls them along. Chatter marks are a series of often crescent-shaped gauges chipped out of the bedrock as a glacier drags rock fragments underneath it. Glacial troughs, or glaciated valleys, are long, U-shaped valleys that were carved out by glaciers that have since receded or disappeared. Troughs tend to have flat valley floors and steep, straight sides. Fjords Fjords, such as those in Norway, are coastal troughs carved out by glaciers. Once the glaciers receded, seawater covered the floor of the trough-shaped valleys to create fjords. Moraines Moraines are accumulations of dirt and rocks that have fallen onto the glacier surface or have been pushed along by the glacier as it moves. The dirt and rocks composing moraines can range in size from powdery silt to large rocks and boulders. A receding glacier can leave behind moraines that are visible long after the glacier retreats. As a glacier retreats, the ice literally melts away from underneath the moraines, so they leave long, narrow ridges that show where the glacier used to be. Glaciers do not always leave moraines behind, however, because sometimes the glacier’s own meltwater washes the material away. Medial moraines run down the middle of a glacier, lateral moraines along the sides, and terminal moraines are found at the terminus, or snout, of a glacier. Sometimes one glacier flows into another, creating combined wider moraines. Often these linear deposits of rocks are left behind, almost intact, after the ice in a glacier has melted away. Studying these rocky debris remnants, and the sediments that were once beneath the glacier, is the subject of glacial geology and geomorphology. Glaciers leave behind anything they pick up along the way, and sometimes this includes huge rocks. Called glacial erratics or erratic boulders, these rocks might seem a little out of place, which is true because glaciers have literally moved them far away from their source before melting out from underneath them. Erratics can be carried for hundreds of kilometers and can range in size from pebbles to large boulders. Scientists sometimes use erratics to help determine ancient glacier movement. Drumlins are elongated, teardrop-shaped hills of rock, sand, and gravel that formed under moving glacier ice. What caused drumlins to form is poorly understood, but scientists believe that they were created subglacially as the ice sheets moved across the landscape during the various ice ages. Theories suggest that drumlins might have been formed as glaciers scraped up sediment from the underlying ground surface, or from erosion or deposition of sediment by glacial meltwater, or some combination of these processes. Because the till, sand, and gravel that form drumlins are deposited and shaped by glacier movement, all drumlins created by a particular glacier face the same direction, running parallel to the glacier's flow. Often, hundreds to thousands of drumlins are found in one place, looking very much like whale backs when seen from above. They can be up to 2 kilometers (1.25 miles) long. Impacts of climate change on glaciers Glaciers are useful indicators of climate change. The relationship between temperature and glacial fluctuations was the basis for scientific activity beginning in the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries and led directly to the formation of the International Commission of Snow and Ice in 1894. The study of glacier fluctuations is relevant to an understanding of climate and climate change over temporal scales from decades to thousands of years, and at regional to global spatial scales. One of the most prominent signs of ongoing climatic change is that, with few exceptions, the vast majority of glaciers are shrinking worldwide. The 1991 discovery of the 5,000-year-old iceman preserved in a glacier in the European Alps fascinated the world, yet the discovery meant that this glacier was the thinnest it had been in the last 5,000 years. Glaciers around the world have retreated at unusually high rates over the last century. Some have disappeared altogether. Many more are retreating so rapidly that they may vanish within decades. Since the Industrial Revolution, which began about 1760, human activity, such as burning fossil fuels, industrial processes, agriculture, and land-use change have increased the amount of carbon dioxide and methane (natural gas) in the atmosphere. In fact, these gases have reached higher concentrations in the atmosphere than at any time in the past 1,000,000 years. How do scientists know this? Because bubbles in glacial ice trap samples of Earth’s atmosphere, they record the composition of the atmosphere at the time ice is formed. Heat-trapping gases, sometimes called greenhouse gases, are the cause of most of the climate warming and glacier retreat since the early twentieth century. Greenhouse gases include carbon dioxide (CO2) and methane (CH4). During the ice ages, CO2 levels were around 200 parts per million (ppm), and during the warmer interglacial periods, they hovered around 280 ppm. In 2013, CO2 levels surpassed 400 ppm for the first time in recorded history, and levels continue to rise. In March 2023, NOAA's Global Monitoring Laboratory reported a CO2 level of 421 ppm. Greenhouse gases absorb heat being radiated from Earth’s surface, and by absorbing this heat the atmosphere and oceans slowly warm up. Warming ocean and air temperatures increase glacier ice melt. Thus, scientists have confirmed that glacial retreat is an unintended effect of the Industrial Revolution and modern energy use. Increasing temperatures are not the only cause, however. Increased dust and soot from grazing, farming, and burning of fossil fuels and forests also increase glacier retreat. Dust and soot settle on glaciers to form a dark layer that absorbs more solar energy and increases their melt. Glaciers move by internal deformation of ice (creep) and basal sliding under their own weight. The movement transfers ice, snow, and firn from locations with net accumulation to locations with net loss. For valley and mountain glaciers this movement is from the head of the glacier towards its terminus. If a glacier as a whole has a positive mass balance, the glacier terminus advances and the glacier expands in area. If a glacier has a negative mass balance, the amount of ice transferred to the terminus is not enough to offset ice melt and the position of the glacier terminus retreats and the glacier shrinks in area. Even though the terminus position is retreating, glacier ice is still moving towards the terminus. With a few exceptions, glaciers in all regions of the Earth have negative mass balances. Their termini are retreating and they are shrinking in area. Glacier growth occurs when the amount of snow that accumulates on the glacier is greater than the amount of ice and snow that is lost from the glacier. Shrinkage occurs when the amount of snow and ice lost from is greater than the amount of snow that accumulates on a glacier. The difference between this accumulation and loss is called the mass balance. Growth occurs when the mass balance is positive. Shrinkage occurs when the mass balance is negative. Accumulation can occur by snowfall directly on the glacier surface but also from avalanches that deposit snow from slopes adjacent to the glacier and from snow being blown onto the glacier from surrounding areas. In some regions of the Earth, condensation of water vapor on glacier surfaces adds to accumulation. Ice and snow can be lost from the glacier by melting and runoff, evaporation of melt water, sublimation (the direct change from solid ice to water vapor), and through calving of ice is an increase in a glacier volume. Photography captured glaciers as early as the mid-nineteenth century. Comparing aerial and ground photographs of glaciers bears witness to the dramatic change taking place. See NSIDC’s Repeat Photography of Glaciers in the Glacier Photography Collection. In the last few decades, satellite imagery has provided a means to monitor glacier extent changes worldwide, greatly expanding the areas of ice that scientists can examine. The Global Land Ice Measurements from Space (GLIMS) project, with participation from more than 60 institutions in 28 nations, has assembled a database of outlines and other data to quantify the past and present areal extent of existing glaciers. Surface mass balance: a measure of glacial health Mass balance is a measurement that determines a glacier’s health, whether it is stable, shrinking, or growing. A stable glacier has equal amounts of mass gain and loss over a year. In the spring and summer, a glacier loses mass to evaporation, melting, sublimation (when ice goes directly from solid to gas), or ice breaking off as icebergs. The difference between mass gains and losses for a given year describes the annual net mass balance, which corresponds to the change in glacier thickness and volume. The critical link between glaciers and climate is the glacier mass balance. Mass balances of more than 300 glaciers have been measured at one time or another since 1946.Continuous mass balance records have been kept since the early 1960s. These results show that, in most regions of the world, glaciers are shrinking in mass. From 1961 to 2005, the thickness of “small” glaciers decreased approximately 12 meters (39 feet), or the equivalent of more than 9,000 cubic kilometers (2,160 cubic miles) of water. A study published in 2014 showed that, starting in the late 1970s, glaciers “crossed an invisible line” into a declining state that cannot easily be attributed to natural causes. The study relied on multiple global climate models to simulate the mass balance of glaciers worldwide, excluding Antarctica. The authors concluded that, from 1851 to 2010, only about 25 percent of the glacier mass loss could be attributed to human-caused climate change. However, from 1991 to 2010, the glacier mass loss increased to about 69 percent, suggesting, with high confidence, a strong signal for human-caused climate change. A study of observational data sets from the World Glacier Monitoring Service (WGMS) concluded that “rates of early twenty-first-century mass loss are without precedent on a global scale, at least for the time period observed and probably also for recorded history.” The Bulletin of the American Meteorological Society State of the Climate in 2015 reported that the cumulative mass balance loss between 1980 and 2015 is “the equivalent of cutting a 20.5-meter (67.3-feet) thick slice off the average glacier.” The Glacier Model Intercomparison Project (GlacierMIP) is a climate project of the World Climate Research Project that focuses on the cryosphere. GlacierMIP issued an open call for data and received six published global glacier models in response. The models collectively produced 214 projections forced with 25 General Circulation Models (GCMs) and four different emission scenarios: Representative Concentration Pathways. The study projected mass changes for glaciers for the year 2100, relative to 2015. Global mass losses varied by model and emission scenario, though all models found significant mass loss. Global sea level rise from melting glaciers One of the most serious consequences of global warming is rising sea level. With so much human activity concentrated along coastlines and areas only a few meters above sea level, even modest flooding has already caused societal and economic distress. Based on the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), global sea level has risen since the early 1970s because of a combination of ocean thermal expansion and glacier mass loss, including mass loss from the Greenland Ice Sheet. Global sea level is currently rising as a result of both ocean thermal expansion and glacier melt, with each accounting for about half of the observed sea level rise, and each caused by recent increases in global mean temperature. According to IPCC Climate Change 2021: The Physical Science Basis, global mean sea level increased by approximately 0.20 meters (0.66 feet) between 1901 and 2018. The average rate of sea level rise was approximately 1.3 millimeters (0.05 inches) per year between 1901 and 1971, increasing to approximately 1.9 millimeters (0.07 inches) between 1971 and 2006, and further increasing to approximately 3.7 millimeters (0.15 inches) between 2006 and 2018. The IPCC made this assessment with high confidence, and stated that human influence was very likely the main driver of rising sea level since at least 1971. Antarctica and Greenland, the world's two ice sheets, make up the vast majority of the Earth's ice. If these ice sheets melted entirely, sea level would rise by more than 70 meters (230 feet). These ice sheets had long been believed to be in equilibrium, but more recent studies indicate growing ice sheet imbalance, with more mass leaving the ice sheet than is replaced by snowfall, especially in West Antarctica and Greenland. In contrast to the polar regions, lower latitude small glaciers and ice caps, although making up only about four percent of the total land ice area or about 760,000 square kilometers (293,000 square miles), may have provided as much as 60 percent of the total glacier contribution to sea level change between the 1990s and 2010s. An exception to the worldwide trend of glacier retreat occurs in the Karakoram region of the Western Himalaya. Known as the Karakoram anomaly, glaciers in this region have remained stable or even expanded over the past 150 years. The explanation for this unusual behavior may be meteorological. Other Himalayan glaciers receive most of their precipitation during the summer monsoon seasons and have experienced reduced snowfall. As is shown in the 2014 study, the Karakoram, has a unique seasonal cycle. The region receives most of its precipitation from non-monsoonal winter storms, staying mostly cool and dry during the summer. A subsequent study in 2019 likewise found that the western portion of South Asia is the one region in the world where glaciers are slightly gaining mass. Whether this unusual glacial stability and/or growth will continue in the coming decades remains unclear. But, according to a 2020 study that investigated the mechanisms behind the regional response, “long-term persistence seems unlikely in light of the considerable warming anticipated by current projections of future climate.” The core of Earth’s climate history Scientists extract ice cores from glaciers, ice sheets, and ice caps, studying them to learn about past changes in Earth's climate. Ice sheets are made up of layers of snow and ice that collected over millions of years. Those layers contain trapped gases, dust, and water molecules that scientists can use to study past climates. Calving and ice loss Calving is a process by which chunks of ice break off from ice shelves (the extensions of land ice that float on an ocean), glaciers, and icebergs. The huge, tabular icebergs are unique to Antarctica, and the process can take a decade or longer. Calving results from rifts that reach across the shelf. In the case of Antarctica's Amery Ice Shelf, the calving area resembles a loose tooth.


--- [Learn - National Snow and Ice Data Center] ---
Learn Quick facts, basic science, and information about snow, ice, and why the cryosphere matters The cryosphere includes all of the snow and ice-covered regions across the planet. Explore our scientific content about what makes up this frozen realm, its importance to Earth's people, plants and animals, and what climate change means for the cryosphere and the world at large. Pick an area of interest What is the cryosphere? This section is your introduction to the frozen parts of our planet. Learn where the cryosphere lies and how it influences life on our planet. Dive deeper into each feature below. Arctic weather & climate The Arctic is known as Earth's refrigerator. Land surrounds a cold ocean, which is covered by a thin layer of perennial sea ice and snow. How do these white surfaces affect weather and climate, both global and regional? Frozen ground & permafrost More than half of all the land in the Northern Hemisphere freezes and thaws every year, while a quarter of the land has an underground layer that stays frozen all year long. How has life learned to thrive in such a harsh environment? Glaciers Two categories of glaciers exist: ice sheets and alpine glaciers. Ice sheets cover vast areas of land in broad domes. Alpine glaciers, are smaller, and found not only at the poles, but in high mountain regions across the globe. Ice sheets During a series of Pleistocene Ice Ages, vast areas of our planet were covered by land. As the planet warmed, about 12,000 years ago, the ice sheets retreated to two major land areas, Greenland in the Northern Hemisphere and Antarctica in the Ice shelves This part of the cryosphere is an extension of land ice that spreads out over cold ocean waters. Since they are key in regulating glacial movement, they are an indirect, yet critical component to sea level rise. Sea ice When the surfaces of bodies of water reach their freezing point, layers of ice form. Sea ice is unique in that the water must be colder than fresh water to freeze. As such, the polar regions are cold enough to allow sea ice to form. Snow When most people think of the cold parts of Earth, they think of snow. Snow is much more important to the planet than simply for recreational purposes. Learn how it impacts wildlife, communities, and the global climate. Ask a scientist Visit this area to read common questions that have been asked of our scientists and staff. Feel free to suggest your own question. Cryosphere glossary Words matter and their meanings even more so. Search for a specific word or browse the many interesting words characteristic of the cryosphere. You might be interested in our scientific analyses and news Sea Ice Today View near-real-time data images of sea ice conditions in both polar regions and explore a rich archive of scientific analyses from 2006-2025. Ice Sheets Today Track annual surface melt conditions on Earth's polar ice sheets and read scientific analysis from our international collaborators. Snow Today Read seasonal analysis of snow conditions in the western United States and explore a variety of near-real-time data on snow. News and Stories Discover how NSIDC research and data at NSIDC are being used to make a difference across the planet and how you can use our data and resources for your own projects. Photo and Video Galleries Witness the beauty of Earth's disappearing features, captured by NSIDC staff and partners. Ask a Scientist Read common questions that have been asked of our scientists and staff. Feel free to suggest your own question.
