=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Mary Fairchild MacMonnies Low - Wikipedia]
Mary Fairchild MacMonnies Low was born in 1858 in New Haven, Connecticut. [1][2] She studied at the St. Louis School of Fine Arts (where she won a three years' scholarship), and in Paris at the Académie Julian and under Carolus Duran. [1] She had her own studio at 11 Impasse du Maine, (now part of Musée Bourdelle). [3][4] She married Frederick MacMonnies in 1888 and divorced him in 1909. [5 ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mary_Fairchild_MacMonnies_Low

[Mary Fairchild MacMonnies Low – National Academicians – National Academy of Design]
In 1884, she began attending the St. Louis School of Fine Arts part-time, enrolling full-time to study painting under Carl Gurtherz. With the support of Halsey C. Ives, the School's art director, Low won a three year scholarship to study abroad from 1885-1888.
URL: https://nationalacademy.emuseum.com/people/1313/mary-fairchild-macmonnies-low

[Mary F. Low – History's Women]
Mary Fairchild Low, an American painter, born at New Haven, Conn. She studied at the St. Louis Art School, where she won a three years' scholarship, and later in Paris under Carolus Duran. Her works include groups of nudes or modern figures painted in the open air and sunlight with dainty charm, as well as landscapes and portraits.
URL: https://historyswomen.com/early-america/mary-f-low/

[Mary MacMonnies Low, 1858 – 1946 | Reid Hall]
Born in New Haven, Connecticut in 1858 to a telegraph operator father and a miniature painter mother, Mary Louise Fairchild MacMonnies Low distinguished herself as a painter in the early 20th century. She also happened to be married to two prominent male artists over the course of her fascinating life. As a budding young artist, Mary Fairchild studied at the St. Louis School of Fine Arts ...
URL: https://reidhall.globalcenters.columbia.edu/macmonnies

[Mary Fairchild MacMonnies Low explained]
Mary Fairchild MacMonnies Low (1858-1946), born in New Haven, Connecticut [1] [2] was an American painter who specialized in landscapes, genre paintings, and portrait s. Biography Mary Fairchild MacMonnies Low studied at the St. Louis School of Fine Arts (where she won a three years' scholarship), and in Paris at the Académie Julian and under Carolus Duran. She had her own studio at 11 ...
URL: https://everything.explained.today/Mary_Fairchild_MacMonnies_Low/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Mary Fairchild MacMonnies Low - Wikipedia] ---
Mary Fairchild MacMonnies Low (1858–1946) was an American painter. She specialized in landscapes, genre paintings, and portraits.


--- [Mary Fairchild MacMonnies Low – National Academicians – National Academy of Design] ---
Like most other women artists in Paris, Low entered the Acad‚mie Julian's women's class, where she received criticism from William Bouguereau, Jules Lefebvre and Tony Robert-Fleury. She also began showing at the Salon. In the summer of 1887, Low summered in Picardie, with the class of the English landscape painter Harry Thompson. The following year, she developed her portrait skills under Carolus-Duran. In late 1887, Low began sharing a studio with Frederick MacMonnies, whom she married in 1888. Mrs. Potter Palmer commissioned Low to execute a mural for the Women's Building at the 1893 Chicago World's Fair following a studio visit in 1891. After almost two years of work on the project, Low traveled to Chicago to oversee the installation of her mural, Primitive Woman, where her husband's The Triumph of the Republic was the central fountain. Financial security came to the couple after the Fair. Beginning in 1894 they rented a converted 14th century monastery in Giverny during the summer, spending the majority of their time there after 1898. Low's brightly toned and sunlit paintings of her children in countryside surroundings display the influence of impressionism. She joined the Society of American Artists in 1896. In 1908, after several years of long periods of separation, MacMonnies filed for divorce. Shortly after the divorce became final in 1909, Low married the recently-widowed muralist Will Hicok Low, whom she had met in Giverny in 1901. The couple returned to America in January 1910, whereafter Low executed numerous portrait commissions in an attempt to aid the family's finances. Her style tightened into a more sober, academic rendering of form. Although she never traveled to Europe again, Low spent a few summers with her children in Gloucester. She continued painting until she became an invalid in the last few years of her life.


--- [Mary F. Low – History's Women] ---
Mary F. Low American Painter 1866–1946 A.D. Mary Fairchild Low, an American painter, born at New Haven, Conn. She studied at the St. Louis Art School, where she won a three years’ scholarship, and later in Paris under Carolus Duran. Her works include groups of nudes or modern figures painted in the open air and sunlight with dainty charm, as well as landscapes and portraits. She was awarded several gold medals in European exhibitions, and in 1902 she won the Julia Shaw prize of the Society of American Artists. She was married in 1888 to the sculptor, Frederick MacMonnies, and in 1909 to the painter and illustrator, Will H. Low. ~*~ Reference: Famous Women; An Outline of Feminine Achievement Through the Ages With Life Stories of Five Hundred Noted Women By Joseph Adelman. Copyright, 1926 by Ellis M. Lonow Company.


--- [Mary MacMonnies Low, 1858 – 1946 | Reid Hall] ---
Mary MacMonnies Low, 1858 – 1946 Born in New Haven, Connecticut in 1858 to a telegraph operator father and a miniature painter mother, Mary Louise Fairchild MacMonnies Low distinguished herself as a painter in the early 20th century. She also happened to be married to two prominent male artists over the course of her fascinating life. As a budding young artist, Mary Fairchild studied at the St. Louis School of Fine Arts alongside Cornelia Field Maury, and both women would go on to spend time at 4 rue de Chevreuse. In 1885, Fairchild won a three-year scholarship to study in Paris, where she enrolled in the Académie Julian and also received instruction from British painter Harry Thompson as well as master portraitist Carolus-Duran. Shortly after arriving in Paris, Fairchild began exhibiting her work at the Salon des artistes français. Her first Salon entry was an 1886 portrait of her friend, art agent and curator Sarah Hallowell. The portrait is currently owned by Robinson College, University of Cambridge. Mary continued exhibiting at the Salon des artistes français and, beginning in 1904, in the Salon des Beaux Arts (she was eventually elected an Associate Member of the Societé nationale des Beaux-Arts). Mary met Scottish-American sculptor Frederick MacMonnies in Paris in 1887 and the two married the following September (after scandalously sharing an art studio out of wedlock for nearly a year). They had two daughters and established a home in Giverny in 1898 but the marriage fell apart and they divorced in 1908. Just one year later, in November 1909, Mary married her longtime admirer, the widowed artist Will Hicok Low, and they returned to America with Mary's daughters in 1910, settling in Bronxville, New York for the rest of their lives. Her good friend Sarah Hallowell proved instrumental in securing a breakthrough commission for Mary: the mural, "Primitive Women," which adorned one tympanum in the Women's Building of the 1893 World's Columbian Exposition in Chicago. Mary Cassatt, the most significant American woman artist in this period, painted a mural entitled "Modern Women" to adorn the tympanum opposite, enabling visitors to contrast imagined women at the dawn of civilization with modern women at the turn of the 20th century. The pairing of MacMonnies with a household name like Mary Cassatt gave an immense boost to her reputation as an artist in her own right, not merely the wife of the great Frederick MacMonnies. In an interview with fellow artist Eleanor E. Greatorex for Godey's Magazine, Mary described how she chose to depict her subject for the Women's Building: I began immediately to study the composition, rejecting in turn the idea of the savage, the pre-historic, the slave, the Oriental woman, or any that would require precision as to detail of costume, race, or environment as being unfit to express an abstract and universal idea. I finally settled on the simplest draped figures of women, without special type or costume, in a landscape background that might be of any time or country, and is certainly not un-American. The women indicate with the completest possible simplicity the bearers of burdens, the tillers of the earth, the servants of man, and, more than this, being without ambition, contented with her lot (as quoted in the Chicago Daily Tribune, April 22, 1893). A notable event in the French life of Mary Fairchild MacMonnies was her election in 1901 as the president of the American Woman's Art Association, headquartered at 4 rue de Chevreuse. This accolade was reported in a January 30, 1901 article in her hometown newspaper, the St. Louis Dispatch, which also described her Giverny estate as "the Mecca of the American art contingent." Though she never lived at the American Girls' Art Club, her work as the AAWA president would have meant that she spent a great deal of time at the Club. Her own Paris studio, located at 11 Impasse du Maine (today the Musée Bourdelle), was in the heart of Montparnasse. It was evocatively described in the Chicago Daily Tribune on April 22, 1893: "Her studio home is in the Impasse du Maine, one of those blind alleys on the left bank of the Seine where artists, like birds in the eaves of some old house congregate. On mounting a long flight of steps one reaches Mrs. MacMonnies' beautiful studio, where she is the most charming hostess to a large circle of friends." The MacMonnies family home in Giverny, Le Moutier, was surrounded by gardens, orchards, and workshops. It became a veritable haven for American artists in France, much as Claude Monet's estate had welcomed countless French and foreign artists. Mary was clearly inspired by her home and its landscape, as her Impressionistic canvases from this period included many nudes in sunshine and many depictions of her young family in the gardens. She won several gold medals for her work: in Dresden in 1902; in Rouen in 1903 and 1911; in Marseille in 1905; and she won the prestigious Julia Shaw prize from the Society of American Artists in 1902. In 1906, Mary Fairchild MacMonnies became an Associate of the National Academy of Design, celebrating this achievement at a dinner in New York at the famous Delmonico's restaurant. Mary had also been selected as one of the women artists invited to represent the United States at the 1900 Exposition Universelle in Paris, winning a bronze medal for her painting, "Lilies and Roses." Mary's second marriage to muralist and painter Will Hicok Low was ostensibly a happy one. In 1910, he dedicated his second autobiography, A Painter's Progress, to her: "This is the life we have chosen; well, the choice was mad, but I should make it again." Ironically, Frederick MacMonnies had studied under Will Low but it is unclear after Will and Mary's marriage whether the pupil and teacher remained on good terms. Although she still painted in the 1920s and 1930s, mostly in and around the Lows' home in the Bronxville artists' enclave Lawrence Park, Mary's artistic career declined after she left France. She lived a quiet life in her later years and died in 1946 at the age of 88, outliving her husband Will by 14 years. Sources - Carr, Carolyn Kinder. "MacMonnies, Mary Fairchild." Grove Art Online. July 28, 2014. Oxford University Press. - Greatorex, Eleanor E. "Mary Fairchild MacMonnies." Godey's Magazine, vol. 126, 1893, pp. 624-632. - Low, Will Hicok. A Painter's Progress. New York: Charles Scribner's Sons, 1910. - Robinson, Joyce Henri and Derrick W. Cartwright. An Interlude in Giverny. University Park, PA: Palmer Museum of Art, 2000. - Smart, Mary. "Sunshine and Shade: Mary Fairchild MacMonnies Low." Woman's Art Journal, vol. 4, no. 2, Autumn 1983-Winter 1984, pp.20-25. JSTOR. - "St. Louis Woman Wins Honors." St. Louis Post-Dispatch, January 30, 1901, p. 1. ProQuest Historical Newspapers. - "Work of an Artist: Another Painter's Sketch of Mary Macmonnies' Life." Chicago Daily Tribune, April 22, 1893, p. 16. ProQuest Historical Newspapers.


--- [Mary Fairchild MacMonnies Low explained] ---
No content
