=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Peaky Blinders Season 3 Episode 6 Recap - screenspy.com]
Alfie’s associate broke the fight off, but Michael was there to save Tommy. Alfie told Tommy that he couldn’t talk about crossing the line because he had crossed it so many times.
URL: https://www.screenspy.com/peaky-blinders-season-3-episode-6/

[Peaky Blinders - S3 E6 - Thomas Shelby And Alfie Solomons ...]
Nov 26, 2019 · In the gangster underworld, is crossing the line a thing? Tom Hardy and Cillian Murphy here killing their roles, per usual, as Thomas Shelby and Alfie Solomons on Peaky Blinders.
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eTMI9DD1mac

[Peaky Blinders: Season Three, Episode Six - Doux Reviews]
Feb 19, 2021 · Josie Kafka reviews the phenomenal sixth episode of the third season of Peaky Blinders. She also disses some fancy eggs.
URL: https://www.douxreviews.com/2021/02/peaky-blinders-season-three-episode-six.html

[List of Peaky Blinders episodes - Wikipedia]
List of Peaky Blinders episodes Peaky Blinders is a British period crime drama television series created by Steven Knight. Set in Birmingham, England, it follows the exploits of the Peaky Blinders crime gang in the direct aftermath of the First World War.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Peaky_Blinders_episodes

[The 18 Best 'Peaky Blinders' Quotes, Ranked By Fans]
Sep 15, 2025 · Episode: Season 3, episode 6 After a fraught alliance between the Peaky Blinders and Alfie Solomon's gang throughout Season 3, Tommy grows upset upon learning that the other leader has withheld information from him.
URL: https://www.ranker.com/list/best-peaky-blinders-quotes-ranked/andrew-mcg


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Peaky Blinders Season 3 Episode 6 Recap - screenspy.com] ---
Peaky Blinders Season 3 Episode 6 Recap BY Ed Published 4 years ago [00:01:00] Tommy took the Peaky Blinders to the opening of his foundation. Polly introduced Tommy to the people who had attended the opening along with the orphans who would be within the care of the foundation. Tommy told them that the children would be safe as they came from the streets like him. Tommy assured them that he would keep them safe, and Arthur seconded his motion along with the Peaky Blinders. After the ceremony, Tommy went outside to check Grace’s memorial. He wanted to savor the moment, but Father Hughes arrived to spoil it. Tommy hadn’t invited Father Hughes to the opening, but he still came and told Tommy where his office would be. Tommy didn’t respond and allowed Hughes to leave with the children and some of the guests. Michael arrived to fetch Tommy so that he could have a cup of tea with the mayor. [00:05:00] Michael looked at Father Hughes, but he didn’t recognize him. Polly and Ada mingled with the guests as part of the legitimate business side of their company. Tommy, Arthur, and John went over their plans as well as updates on the tunnel being built under Hampton Court. A group of women took Tommy from Arthur and John for a photo opp. They gave him a horse carving of his horse Grace’s secret. Ada gave Charlie back to Tommy as he was having a fit and was asking for Tommy. He handed Charlie over to someone for the photo opp, but he couldn’t find him after. Tommy asked everyone if they had seen Charlie, but no one knew where he was. They searched everywhere for him, but they couldn’t find him. Some people saw a woman leave the event with a boy. They got into a car and headed south. [00:09:00] Arthur told Tommy to go back to the office while he searched for the car with John. Polly went with Tommy to accompany him. They headed to the betting shop, and Tommy called for Sergeant Moss, but he wasn’t there. Tommy threw the phone in his anger. Polly tried to convince Tommy that the economic league didn’t take Charlie, but his gut told him otherwise. Ada arrived at the betting shop to tell Tommy about a priest waiting for him outside. Tommy told them to stay inside while he handled the situation. Tommy went outside to speak with Father Hughes. He told Tommy that they had Charlie. The economic league knew about Tommy’s plan and how he had told the Soviets not to blow up the train. Father Hughes told Tommy that it was his fault that his son’s life was now in danger. [00:12:00] Father Hughes gave Tommy an envelope. He ordered him to blow up the train and scatter the contents inside the envelope in order to implicate the Soviets. Once the explosion had killed a few people, the British government would have no choice but to cut their diplomatic ties. Father Hughes told Tommy that their mission would be complete once the diplomatic ties had been severed. The economic league also knew about the tunnels under Hampton Court. Father Hughes ordered Tommy to surrender all the jewels they would acquire from the heist. Tommy didn’t have any choice but to accept the mission and all other agreements. The league would bring back his son after everything in their agreement had been fulfilled. Tommy went back to the betting shop and brought hell upon his family. [00:14:00] Tommy knew someone had talked about their plans, and he wanted to know who it was. He blamed everyone because everyone had a weak link, Esme for John, Linda for Arthur, Ada’s sudden return to the family, and Ruben for Polly. Everyone was caught by surprise when Tommy suddenly blamed them for Charlie getting kidnapped. He told them that their enemies knew of their plans, and he hadn’t told anyone about the tunnels except for the family. Ada told Tommy that she had returned for love and common sense. John responded that Esme didn’t need extra cash and wouldn’t sell them out for extra cash. Arthur didn’t even want to think that Tommy would bring Linda into the picture. Polly told Tommy that she didn’t mention anything to Ruben about family business. Tommy knew it was Ruben. He had wondered why he would waste his time with Polly. [00:17:00] Polly was offended, but Ada told Tommy that Polly had had red wine with Ruben. Tommy knew the effects of Red wine on Polly and that she wouldn’t remember half of the things she did or said. Finn arrived to tell Tommy that they weren’t able to find Charlie. Tommy instructed him to fill a few cans with petrol and put them in his car. He also wanted Finn to find Michael and bring him over. Tommy knew that the traitor was Ruben. He left to carry out his plan leaving Polly in guilt and tears. Polly spent her evening in the office. She drank and cried, staring at her portrait. Morning came, and she decided to slash the portrait into pieces. Tommy met with Alfie as he was the only other person who knew about the plans outside of the family. [00:20:00] Tommy asked for a list of people who would be interested in a Faberge egg. Alfie provided Tommy with a list, but he immediately drew his weapon at the sight of the list. Tommy knew the names that would be on the list beforehand. A name was missing from the list, which meant that Alfie was protecting that specific person. It also meant that Alfie had sold the information to the economic league about his plans. Alfie confirmed that he had sold Tommy out. Tommy responded that Alfie had crossed the line and that they were holding Charlie hostage. A fight broke out between Tommy and Alfie. Alfie’s associate broke the fight off, but Michael was there to save Tommy. Alfie told Tommy that he couldn’t talk about crossing the line because he had crossed it so many times. They talked things over, and Alfie told Tommy that he hadn’t known about his son. [00:25:00] Back at the office, Ruben arrived looking for Polly. He saw the painting of Polly slashed to pieces. Polly took out her gun and pointed it at his face. She had asked for him last night, but he wasn’t ready to face her and enter the world of the Peaky Blinders. Ruben had come now because he was ready. He told Polly that whatever Tommy had told her wasn’t true. Polly lowered her weapon and started crying. Polly told Ruben that her painting was wrong because she was too sure of herself in the painting. She no longer wanted to be a part of the Peaky Blinders; instead, she wanted to spend a dull life with Ruben. [00:28:00] Meanwhile, Sergeant Moss rushed to his office to answer a call. After the call, he encircled the name of Gilbert Palmer on his list. Palmer was the man Alfie was protecting. Sergeant Moss arrested Gilbert and brought him to Arthur. He prepared a noose for Gilbert and began torturing him for information on Charlie’s whereabouts. Tommy went to the tunnel to dig with his men. He told Johnny Dogs that the enemy had taken Charlie, and he needed the tunnel to be finished by midnight. The next day, Michael met with Arthur and John at the scrapyard. Michael told them about his first kill and showed them the gun Tommy had given him. They gave him the possible location of Charlie. They wanted him to take two of their men to extract Charlie from the location. Michael wanted to kill Father Hughes personally, but Arthur disagreed. [00:31:00] Father Hughes brought Charlie dinner the night of the plan. Tommy continued digging with his men while John and Arthur went to the train tracks to set up the explosives. They were waiting for word on whether Charlie was safe or not. If they didn’t receive word, they would blow up the train and the six men inside. Michael arrived at the location and told his men to stay in the car. He wanted to kill Father Hughes, and he intended to do it alone. Tommy was set to blow the tunnel while Arthur and John were also set to blow up the train. Michael entered the building, but Father Hughes heard his footsteps. Michael pointed the gun right at Hughes’s left eye, but he wasn’t able to shoot. Father Hughes disarmed him and tried to strangle him. [00:36:30] Tommy got inside the vault and began looting the jewels and jewelry. He got out before anyone knew he was there. Michael was able to break free from Father Hughes as he slashed his face with a knife. The two men he had come with entered the building and tried to kill Hughes, but he told them to call Finn instead. Michael slashed Father Hughes’s throat as blood gushed out and spurted on his face. The call came in too late, Finn ran as fast as he could, but Arthur and John had already blown up the train. They partially burned the evidence and scattered it with the wreckage. Michael brought Charlie back to the office where Ada and Polly were waiting. Polly saw the blood on Michael’s face, and she knew there was no turning back for him. [00:40:00] Tommy stopped by a phone booth to call the office. He wanted to speak to Charlie, so someone gave the phone to him on the other end. Tommy spoke to Charlie and told him to go to bed. Tommy cried at the thought of nearly losing his son. Meanwhile, Michael went to the abortionist to see Charlotte off. He told her that he couldn’t stay because Tommy needed his help with the family business. Charlotte begged him to stay, but Michael handed an envelope full of money to the abortionist and left. Tommy arrived at his house and asked Ada where Charlie was. He came running upstairs into Charlie’s room. Tommy hugged Charlie as tight as he could. [00:43:00] Tommy met with Tatiana to sell the jewels from their vault. They met in the middle of a road with a mediator named Monsieur Silk. Tatiana was in on the plan and had helped Tommy steal the jewels on her behalf. Tatiana bought the jewels back and planned to head out to Vienna because there was a man waiting for her. Monsieur Silk verified the authenticity and value of the jewels and jewelry. She kissed Tommy one last time and bid him farewell. Tatiana paid Tommy and asked for five grand as payment for the sex. She asked for another five grand for helping Tommy get over Grace, but he didn’t pay her because he still grieved his loss. Tatiana shot Monsieur Silk and left. [00:47:00] Tommy went back to his house and called a family meeting. Everyone came, and Tommy prepared their payment. He apologized to each and every one of them for the pain he had caused them. Linda and Esme accepted their payments, but Lizzie didn’t. Tommy pointed out that her payment was for helping him not to fall apart. Tommy had nearly lost Charlie, and he knew there was no going back. Polly proposed a new hope for their company moving forward as she returned Michael’s share of the payment. Esme and Lizzie were thrilled at Polly’s proposal as well as Ada, but Linda wasn’t. She was hell-bent on moving Arthur away from the Peaky Blinders to start a new life. Arthur bid farewell to everyone, but before he left, Tommy told him that he wouldn’t get far. [00:54:00] Tommy told them that everyone would be arrested as their enemies wanted to bring them down. He ordered Lizzie to collect all the money he had given them. Tommy told everyone that he had made a deal with people more powerful than their enemies. Tommy told Arthur to trust him, but Arthur didn’t care because they would be hanged for the crimes they had committed. Linda attacked Tommy; she knew that he had sold them out to stop them from leaving. Everyone tried to leave, but they couldn’t. Chaos and Mayhem ensued as the police arrived with Sergeant Moss and began arresting everyone. They loaded them inside the police trucks and left.


--- [Peaky Blinders - S3 E6 - Thomas Shelby And Alfie Solomons ...] ---
About Press Copyright Contact us Creators Advertise Developers Impressum Cancel Memberships Terms Privacy Policy & Safety How YouTube works Test new features © 2026 Google LLC


--- [Peaky Blinders: Season Three, Episode Six - Doux Reviews] ---
I try to avoid following a plot-based structure in my reviews. It feels too much like a recap, and organizing by character, theme, or even effects before causes usually makes me feel more like I’m writing and less like I’m transcribing. But this episode has the insane propulsion of a tsunami, and this review can’t help but ride the wave. The word “safe” occurs throughout this episode. The quote above is from Tommy as he digs the tunnel. But the first time he says it was in his speech about the Grace Shelby Institute for Orphans (aka the “uninsured children of the poor,” because they didn’t like euphemisms as much in the 1920s, I guess). Tommy wants to keep the children safe. But doing that—keeping all children, but especially Charlie, safe—requires putting everyone else at risk. Because no one is safe in the world of Peaky Blinders. A child-raping priest demands an office in The Grace Shelby Institute. Friends and lovers may or may not betray the Shelby clan. Arthur and John wind up killing six innocent men. Polly can’t prevent her son from “crossing the line,” and maybe she shouldn’t, given what was at stake. And, by the end, Tommy puts every single member of his family, aside from Charlie the toddler, into prison in an attempt to keep them, and himself, safe. But how is that safe?! I get ahead of myself, though. Director Tim Mielants uses the camera to astonishing effect throughout this episode, especially in the reception at the Institute: the constant circular pans and close-ups emphasize the claustrophobia of those sorts of gatherings at the best of times, as well as the disorientation that could lead to the most lowkey kidnapping I’ve ever seen. Lowkey until Tommy figures it out, that is. You know things are bad when Arthur must calm Tommy down (which I think is a sentence I've written before). As Tommy has gotten more powerful, the emotional stakes of this show have gotten more ambiguous. I’ve written previously about the glamorized violence, but we might also consider the glamorized power. Should we be rooting for a criminal who is perhaps the wealthiest man in Birmingham? Who got that wealth through means more foul than fair? Showrunner Steven Knight anticipates and pushes back against that resistance, though, by creating increasingly evil villains. It’s simply impossible to root for the orgiastic Russians or the pedophile priest or the vast mechanisms of state that they represent and pervert. Because the root of Evil Priest’s plan is a desire for the British to stop diplomatic ties with the Soviet Union, and that’s why they have to blow up the train, and that’s his excuses for needing all of the Russians’ jewels, and that’s why he thinks that a random Odd Fellow deserves a Fabergé, because Tommy is up against people who are convinced the world owes them not just a living, but ugly expensive eggs that symbolize some of the worst excesses of wealth (see below for more of my hot take on Fabergé). It’s all a question of crossing the line, though, as Tommy and Alfie Solomons discuss in my favorite scene in the episode. Alfie, whose sciatica is acting up (really?) brings Tommy not one list or two lists but three lists. Because of course he did; it’s only natural that his lists would be as circular as his speech. Alfie did cross the line when he sold information to Section D, although he looks offended when Tommy suggests it…up until Tommy reveals that Section D kidnapped Charlie. The look on Alfie’s face says everything, and I love how the director comes in for a close-up. Alfie says he knows but he clearly didn’t. (And he does eventually own up). | The face of a man who realizes he has crossed the line | It took Tommy a while to suss out that it was Alfie who betrayed him: romantic betrayals seemed more plausible to him than bromantic ones. He questioned Arthur about Linda. John about Esme and her cocaine habit. And, most heartbreakingly, Polly about her sexy painter boyfriend. It’s “even odds,” Tommy thinks, that an educated man like that could never love a woman like Polly. He believes it. And for a few horrible hours, so does she. (My heart broke for her in that scene. Helen McCrory broke my heart.) Interestingly, Tommy clearly doesn’t know about Michael’s girlfriend, who gets an abortion later in the episode. Michael is better at hiding things than everyone else in the family, isn’t he? He’s always been something of a dark horse, and he went through a transformation in this episode: he shot Alfie’s bodyguard and stabbed the priest. He also abandoned his girlfriend to tend to “family business.” He is no longer pretending to be on the side of the righteous, and the bizarre look on his face when he returns home to Polly, blood still visible, is disturbing. In opposition to the word “safe,” the language of damnation, hell, and death recur throughout this episode. In his conversation with Tommy, Alfie says that he himself is “damned” and “he who fights by the sword dies by it.” He tries to remind Tommy they aren’t that different, blasting his self-righteousness straight to hell: “How many fathers, right? How many sons, yeah, have you cut, killed, murdered, fucking butchered, innocent and guilty, to send straight to fucking hell, ain't ya? Just like me?” Later, Arthur, who has started drinking again, asks John, “Who wants to be in heaven when you can be sending men to fucking hell?” Those conversations occur before and within the mid-episode climax, when Mielants cuts between Tommy in the tunnel, Michael fighting the priest, and Arthur and John about to blow up the train with six innocent men inside. The power dynamics in each of those conflicts is so complex: Tommy is getting what he needs to save his son and what he is owed by the Russians anyway (so we think); Michael is getting vengeance and protecting Charlie from harm; Arthur and John are following through on the “family first” ethos that gets the Shelbys both into and out of a lot of trouble. What’s the line between innocent and guilty, hell-bound and otherwise, in a world like that? The show's villains are clearer than its heroes, of which there might not be any. Maybe Princess Tatiana has it right. She asks Tommy, "You would never steal from your family, would you?" But Tommy does: he steals his family's freedom in the name of safety. So maybe she is more correct in her parting words: "At home, these jewels saw way worse. That's why they are all cursed. As are we, Mr. Shelby." Bearing that in mind, I wonder if we can think of those vulgar eggs as the Symbol of the Week if not the Symbol of the Season. They represent the illusion of safety, the wealth and power that Tommy craves so he never feels trapped in a tunnel again. But ultimately they’re useful, empty symbols not of safety but of the sort of power that damns both owners and owned to hell. As Tommy pays off everyone in the last scene, he yells at Polly: “This is who I am. And this is all I can give you for what you've given me: your hearts and your souls.” This is a new twist on something he said to Grace in the season premiere: "It’s business. It’s bad bad business all around. And I’m scared…And this is how I am when I’m scared. It’s unfamiliar to you but not to me. I can—I can fucking be scared and carry on. And it’s not pleasant to look at and it’s no joy to be around…I’m sorry for being busy in my head." How much things have changed! After yelling at Polly, Tommy starts to yell at everyone: "Those bastards are worse than us...and they will never admit us to their palaces no matter how legitimate we become...you have to get what you want your own way." The camera briefly cuts to Curly, who looks as horrified as I felt at Tommy's shift from scared to self-righteous: | Curly, who is never wrong, is horrified. | Curly’s reaction reminds us that this is not really what we or Tommy should be rooting for. Class resentment just reifies class stratification. You cannot dismantle the master’s house with the master’s Fabergé eggs. Any attempt to do so is just what Alfie called out earlier in the episode: cutting, killing, murdering, butchering, all of which end in damnation. Tommy doesn't see that anymore, though. “You will all get your money in due course,” he says as his family is taken away in handcuffs. It doesn’t seem to occur to him they might want something else. Four out of four hot takes on fancy eggs, with some moody Radiohead to help us feel our feelings: Josie Kafka is a full-time cat servant and part-time rogue demon hunter. (What's a rogue demon?)


--- [List of Peaky Blinders episodes - Wikipedia] ---
Peaky Blinders is a British period crime drama television series created by Steven Knight. Set in Birmingham, England, it follows the exploits of the Peaky Blinders crime gang in the direct aftermath of the First World War. The fictional gang is loosely based on a real urban youth gang of the same name who were active in the city from the 1910s. It premiered on 12 September 2013, telecast on BBC Two until the fourth series, then moved to BBC One for the fifth and sixth series.
On 18 January 2021, it was announced that the sixth series would be the final series of Peaky Blinders. During the course of the programme, 36 episodes of Peaky Blinders aired over six series, between 12 September 2013 and 3 April 2022.


--- [The 18 Best 'Peaky Blinders' Quotes, Ranked By Fans] ---
- Photo: - Peaky Blinders - BBC One The Best Quotes From 'Peaky Blinders,' Ranked By Gangster Grit X.com Threads Copy link Vote up the most memorable quotes from Peaky Blinders. In the world of Peaky Blinders universe, dramatized depiction of brutal violence, intense family relationships, and illicit businesses give an insight into the real criminal ongoings of early 20th century England. After airing six seasons spanning from 2013 to 2022, the drama remains incredibly popular, and Tommy Shelby (Cillian Murphy) has become a household name. Though he's the star, viewers also meet an array of other characters who showcase the intensity of the gangster world of Birmingham, and each one has some unique wisdom to share. So, grab your razor-lined caps and look back through the grittiest lines spoken by Peaky Blinders characters over the years, and vote for those that prove the show is worth watching. - Photo: 1'What F*cking Line Am I Supposed To Have Crossed?!' Episode: Season 3, episode 6 After a fraught alliance between the Peaky Blinders and Alfie Solomon's gang throughout Season 3, Tommy grows upset upon learning that the other leader has withheld information from him. He declares that Alfie has crossed a “line," and fighting breaks out. Although they stop short of killing each other due to their truce, Alfie grows furious, insisting that Tommy has no right to be angry with him. He has a point: Tommy has no right to judge here, having betrayed plenty of people he was “allied” with in order to get ahead. There's no clear “line” of morality in a deal between two crime bosses. Memorable quote?- Photo: 2'If I Come For You, And I Still Might Yet Decide To Come For You, I Will Wear High Heels So That You Will Hear My Approach On The Cobblestones, And You Will Have Time To Repent.' Episode: Season 5, episode 3 Tommy and Polly head to an orphanage run by nuns, which they heavily fund, to confront the woman in charge about racist treatment and abuse of children in her care. Not only do the Shelbys declare that they're withdrawing their funding and moving all the children to other institutions, they also threaten the Mother Superior so she understands the gravity of her actions - Polly even pulls a knife on her as she delivers the above quote. Even though they're criminals, Polly and Tommy still have morals when it comes to mistreatment of children - and a great talent for making vivid threats. Memorable quote?- Photo: 3'Intelligence Is A Very Valuable Thing, Innit, My Friend. And Usually, It Comes Far Too F*cking Late.' Episode: Season 2, episode 2 When Tommy meets with Alfie Solomons, the leader of a rival gang, hoping to convince them to ally with the Peaky Blinders in a confrontation against club owner Darby Sabini. Though Tommy, of course, is good with his words, Alfie holds his own, emphasizing the value of information and questioning what he would get out of an alliance, demonstrating that he won't be easily intimidated or manipulated. Memorable quote?- Photo: 4'Okay, But I Warn You… I'll Break Your Heart.' 'Already Broken.' Episode: Season 1, episode 2 This exchange comes between Tommy and Grace as he's come for a drink, distraught at some of his business dealings. Tommy asks Grace to sing for him, and she obliges, standing up on a chair. When he suggests she perform a sad song, she offers him this warning, but he replies that he's already so despondent it won't matter how heartbreaking she can be. This solemn yet witty conversation perfectly sets up the deep, push-pull relationship they're about to embark on. Memorable quote?- Photo: 5'This Place Is Under New Management, By Order Of The Peaky Blinders.' Episode: Season 2, episode 4 This is perhaps one of the most widely quoted lines on the list, and it has inspired many a meme and became a cultural phenomenon. It's spoken by Arthur Shelby in Season 2, when he and the Blinders overtake a club owned by Darby Sabini, storming the premises and attacking patrons while chasing others out. His grinning, gleeful delivery in light of what his men have just done - he even has another man's blood smeared on his face - emphasizes the gang's shamelessness. Memorable quote?- Photo: 6'Don't F*ck With The Peaky Blinders!' Episode: Season 2, episode 6 Though simple, this line packs a huge punch that makes it one of the most memorable of the whole show. Polly utters this right after she shoots Campbell, finally killing him after he's been chasing the gang - and her family - for two seasons. It's even more satisfying to see her take him down and tell him off after he forced himself on her earlier in the season. She proves that messing with her was a mistake - just like messing with any of the Blinders. Memorable quote?
