=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Paul Holdengräber | Onassis Foundation]
Jan 11, 2019 · In 2003, the French Government named Holdengräber Chevalier des Arts et des Lettres, and then promoted him in 2012 to the rank of Commandeur des Arts et des Lettres. In 2010, The President of Austria awarded him the Austrian Cross of Honor for Science and Art.
URL: https://www.onassis.org/people/paul-holdengr%C3%A4ber

[In Conversation: Ruha Benjamin and Paul Holdengräber]
In 2003, the French Government named Holdengräber Chevalier des Arts et des Lettres, and then promoted him in 2012 to the rank of Commandeur des Arts et des Lettres. In 2010, The President of Austria awarded him the Austrian Cross of Honor for Science and Art.
URL: https://www.fordfoundation.org/about/the-ford-foundation-center-for-social-justice/ford-foundation-gallery/events/in-conversation-ruha-benjamin-and-paul-holdengraber/

[Paul Holdengräber | OXY ARTS]
In 2003, the French Government named Holdengräber Chevalier des Arts et des Lettres, and then promoted him in 2012 to the rank of Commandeur des Arts et des Lettres. In 2010, The President of Austria awarded him the Austrian Cross of Honor for Science and Art.
URL: https://oxyarts.oxy.edu/artist/paul-holdengraber

[Paul Holdengräber - Calabash Literary Festival]
In 2003, the French Government named him Chevalier des Arts et des Lettres, and then promoted him in 2012 to the rank of Commandeur des Arts et des Lettres. In 2010, The President of Austria awarded him the Austrian Cross of Honor for Science and Art. X: @holdengraber X: @pholdengraber
URL: https://calabashfestival.org/paul-holdengraber/

[Maira Kalman & Paul Holdengräber talk Remorse. Joy. Etc ...]
He holds a Ph.D. in comparative literature from Princeton University. In 2003, the French Government named him Chevalier des Arts et des Lettres, and then promoted him in 2012 to the rank of Commandeur des Arts et des Lettres. In 2010, The President of Austria awarded him the Austrian Cross of Honor for Science and Art.
URL: https://jaccc.org/events/maira-kalman-paul-holdengraber/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Paul Holdengräber | Onassis Foundation] ---
Paul Holdengräber Paul Holdengräber is an interviewer and curator. He was the Founding Executive Director of Onassis Los Angeles (OLA). Previously, and for 14 years, he was Founder and Director of The New York Public Library’s LIVE from the NYPL cultural series where he interviewed and hosted over 600 events, holding conversations with everyone from Patti Smith to Zadie Smith, Ricky Jay to Jay-Z, Errol Morris to Jan Morris, Wes Anderson to Helen Mirren, Werner Herzog to Mike Tyson. Before his tenure at the Library, Holdengräber was the Founder and Director of “The Institute for Art & Cultures” at the Los Angeles County Museum of Art, and a Fellow at the Getty Research Institute in Los Angeles. He has a Ph.D. in Comparative Literature from Princeton University and has taught at Princeton University, Williams College, Claremont Graduate University among others. In 2003, the French Government named Holdengräber Chevalier des Arts et des Lettres, and then promoted him in 2012 to the rank of Commandeur des Arts et des Lettres. In 2010, The President of Austria awarded him the Austrian Cross of Honor for Science and Art. More in: News Onassis Scholarships 2019-2020. We support daring ideas. News Nobel laureate Barry Barish among other eminent scientists in the 2022 Onassis Lectures in Physics | July 25–29 at the Foundation for Research and Technology in Heraklion, Crete Adults Training for Autism Athens President’s Address Open calls Onassis Scholarships 2019-2020. We support daring ideas. Press


--- [In Conversation: Ruha Benjamin and Paul Holdengräber] ---
In Conversation: Ruha Benjamin and Paul Holdengräber Join us on Monday, November 20 from 6-8pm for a fireside chat with Ruha Benjamin, author of Race After Technology: Abolitionist Tools for the New Jim Code and Viral Justice: How We Grow the World We Want, and Paul Holdengräber, is an interviewer and curator; he was the founding executive director of Onassis Los Angeles, and the previous director of New York Public Library’s public programming and founder of the LIVE from NYPL cultural series. Ruha Benjamin will speak in conversation with Holdengräber about ethics in AI and the role these algorithms play in shaping our world, through their impacts on equity, justice, and power distribution. This event is presented as part of the current gallery exhibition What Models Make Worlds on view through December 9 and presented in partnership with Occidental College and OXY ARTS program Oxy Live! Live captioning will be provided. About the speakers Ruha Benjamin is the Alexander Stewart 1886 Professor of African American Studies at Princeton University, founding director of the Ida B. Wells Just Data Lab, and author of the award-winning book Race After Technology: Abolitionist Tools for the New Jim Code, among many other publications. Her work investigates the social dimensions of science, medicine, and technology with a focus on the relationship between innovation and inequity, health and justice, knowledge and power. She is the recipient of numerous awards and honors, including the Marguerite Casey Foundation Freedom Scholar Award and the President’s Award for Distinguished Teaching at Princeton. Her most recent book, Viral Justice: How We Grow the World We Want, winner of the 2023 Stowe Prize, was born out of the twin plagues of COVID-19 and police violence and offers a practical and principled approach to transforming our communities and helping us build a more just and joyful world. Paul Holdengräber is an interviewer and curator. He was the Founding Executive Director of Onassis Los Angeles (OLA). Previously, and for 14 years, he was Founder and Director of The New York Public Library’s LIVE from the NYPL cultural series where he interviewed and hosted over 600 events, holding conversations with everyone from Patti Smith to Zadie Smith, Ricky Jay to Jay-Z, Errol Morris to Jan Morris, Wes Anderson to Helen Mirren, Werner Herzog to Mike Tyson. Before his tenure at the Library, Holdengräber was the Founder and Director of “The Institute for Art & Cultures” at the Los Angeles County Museum of Art, and a Fellow at the Getty Research Institute in Los Angeles. He has a Ph.D. in Comparative Literature from Princeton University and has taught at Princeton University, Williams College, Claremont Graduate University among others. In 2003, the French Government named Holdengräber Chevalier des Arts et des Lettres, and then promoted him in 2012 to the rank of Commandeur des Arts et des Lettres. In 2010, The President of Austria awarded him the Austrian Cross of Honor for Science and Art. Ford Foundation Gallery 320 E 43rd St, New York, NY 10017 To ensure the health and safety of all guests of the Ford Foundation Center for Social Justice, we ask that attendees follow our visitor guidelines.


--- [Paul Holdengräber | OXY ARTS] ---
Paul Holdengräber Paul Holdengräber is an interviewer and curator. He is the Founding Executive Director of Onassis Los Angeles (OLA). Previously, and for 14 years, he was Founder and Director of The New York Public Library’s "LIVE from the NYPL" cultural series where he interviewed and hosted over 600 events, holding conversations with everyone from Patti Smith to Zadie Smith, Ricky Jay to Jay-Z, Errol Morris to Jan Morris, Wes Anderson to Helen Mirren, Werner Herzog to Mike Tyson. Before his tenure at the Library, Holdengräber was the Founder and Director of “The Institute for Art & Cultures” at the Los Angeles County Museum of Art, and a Fellow at the Getty Research Institute in Los Angeles. He has a Ph.D. in Comparative Literature from Princeton University and has taught at Princeton University, Williams College, Claremont Graduate University among others. In 2003, the French Government named Holdengräber Chevalier des Arts et des Lettres, and then promoted him in 2012 to the rank of Commandeur des Arts et des Lettres. In 2010, The President of Austria awarded him the Austrian Cross of Honor for Science and Art.


--- [Paul Holdengräber - Calabash Literary Festival] ---
Paul Holdengräber Paul Holdengräber is an interviewer, curator of public curiosity, and was the Founding Executive Director of Onassis Los Angeles (OLA). Prior he was Founder and Director of The New York Public Library’s LIVE from the NYPL cultural series where he interviewed and hosted over 600 events, including interviews with Patti Smith, Wes Anderson, Mike Tyson, Werner Herzog and many more. Before his tenure at the library, he was the Founder and Director of The Institute for Art & Cultures at the LACMA. He holds a Ph.D. in comparative literature from Princeton University. In 2003, the French Government named him Chevalier des Arts et des Lettres, and then promoted him in 2012 to the rank of Commandeur des Arts et des Lettres. In 2010, The President of Austria awarded him the Austrian Cross of Honor for Science and Art. X: @holdengraber X: @pholdengraber


--- [Maira Kalman & Paul Holdengräber talk Remorse. Joy. Etc ...] ---
Sunday, March 16, 2025 | 3:00 pm Japanese American Cultural & Community Center 244 S. San Pedro Street, Los Angeles, CA 90012 For transit and parking, see Go Little Tokyo’s guide (here). This event is overbooked. Join acclaimed artist and author Maira Kalman and renowned interviewer Paul Holdengräber for a conversation about Remorse. Joy. Etc. About Remorse, Kalman has this to say: "Dark is life. Spring is here. The birds are singing.” About Joy, Kalman has this to say: “Dark is life. Spring is here. The birds are singing.” After the conversation join us for light refreshments in the Japanese Garden. Maira Kalman will be signing copies of her new book, “Still Life with Remorse.” This event is part of a new initiative of the USC Museums. “The Moveable Feast with Paul Holdengräber” is not just a program—it’s a vibrant gathering that ignites arts and culture into communal discovery, fueling human flourishing. The feast brings together arts partners and creative voices to shape collective experiences. Each conversation is a journey, where ideas travel and evolve to deepen our understanding of the world and ourselves. “The Moveable Feast with Paul Holdengräber” is generously sponsored by Selma Holo and Mei-Lee Ney. Maira Kalman Maira Kalman was born in Tel Aviv and moved to New York City with her family at the age of four. She was raised in bucolic Riverdale, the Bronx. She now lives in Manhattan. MK has written/illustrated over 30 books for adults and children. She has been a frequent contributor to The New York Times and The New Yorker. She has created textiles for Isaac Mizrahi and Kate Spade and sets for Mark Morris. Other collaborations have been with Nico Muhly, Alex Kalman, Michael Pollan, David Byrne, John Heginbotham and Gertrude Stein. Her watch and clock designs appear under the M&Co label, the design studio created by her late husband Tibor Kalman. She has won many awards and given numerous talks, including several TED talks. Her art has been exhibited in galleries and museums around the world. Her fine art is represented by Mary Ryan Gallery. Her book agent is Charlotte Sheedy. Maira Kalman in her studio. Photo by Kimisa H. Paul Holdengräber Paul Holdengräber is an interviewer, curator of public curiosity, and was the Founding Executive Director of Onassis Los Angeles (OLA). Prior he was Founder and Director of The New York Public Library’s LIVE from the NYPL cultural series where he interviewed and hosted over 600 events, including interviews with Patti Smith, Wes Anderson, Mike Tyson, Werner Herzog and many more. Before his tenure at the library, he was the Founder and Director of The Institute for Art & Cultures at the LACMA. He holds a Ph.D. in comparative literature from Princeton University. In 2003, the French Government named him Chevalier des Arts et des Lettres, and then promoted him in 2012 to the rank of Commandeur des Arts et des Lettres. In 2010, The President of Austria awarded him the Austrian Cross of Honor for Science and Art. Photo by Eva Zubero. USC Museums An integral part of the University of Southern California, USC Museums harnesses the power of art to inspire, connect, and engage communities. Comprising the USC Fisher Museum of Art and the USC Pacific Asia Museum, USC Museums fosters cultural exchange, critical dialogue, and interdisciplinary learning through dynamic exhibitions and programs. Committed to inclusivity and innovation, it bridges perspectives and expands understanding, shaping museums as spaces for connection and discovery. Accessibility We strive to host inclusive, accessible events that enable all individuals, including individuals with disabilities, to engage fully. To be respectful of those with allergies and environmental sensitivities, we ask that you please refrain from wearing strong fragrances. To request an accommodation or for inquiries about accessibility, please contact info@jaccc.org.
