=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Asahi (baseball team) - Wikipedia]
In 1937-1941, the team won five consecutive Pacific Championships. In 1938 the team won a Triple League Championship. In 1939 and 1940 the team won the Burrard League Championship. [4] Asahi was active during a time of harsh anti-Asian racism. [5] .
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Asahi_(baseball_team)

[Asahi Baseball Team National Historic Event - Parks Canada]
Between 1914 and 1941, at a time when Japanese Canadians faced racism, Vancouver's Asahi Baseball Team thrilled fans by winning championships in senior amateur leagues.
URL: https://parks.canada.ca/culture/designation/evenement-event/asahi-baseball

[Asahi Baseball Team National Historic Event - Parks Canada]
Asahi Baseball Team National Historic Event Vancouver, British Columbia Asahis win the Burrard League Championship, 1940 (© Japanese Canadian National Museum / NNM 1996-180-002) Address : 400 Powell Street, Vancouver, British Columbia Recognition Statute: Historic Sites and Monuments Act (R.S.C., 1985, c. H-4)
URL: https://www.pc.gc.ca/apps/dfhd/page_nhs_eng.aspx?id=11992

[1940 Game Reports BC Interior - attheplate.com]
1940 Vancouver, Lower Mainland, Fraser Valley 1940 BC Interior 1940 Vancouver Island Two senior calibre circuits were operational in Vancouver during the 1940 season, the Burrard Baseball League and the Twilight Baseball League. The Burrard circuit was a seven-inning loop while the Twilighters carried on for a full nine innings. The Burrard Leaguers played a complete schedule and successfully ...
URL: https://attheplate.com/wcbl/1940_100i.html

[Remembering the Vancouver Asahi - The Other Press]
Apr 15, 2021 · In 1936, they won the championship in the Commercial League (former City Senior B League) and the next year they won another Commercial League title. From 1938 to 1940, they captured three straight championships (Burrard League). The Asahi were showing their dominance, as more titles followed.
URL: https://theotherpress.ca/remembering-the-vancouver-asahi/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Asahi (baseball team) - Wikipedia] ---
The Asahi was a Japanese-Canadian baseball team of amateur and semi-professional players that was based in Vancouver from 1914 to 1941. The team won many league championships, particularly in the 1930s.


--- [Asahi Baseball Team National Historic Event - Parks Canada] ---
Asahi Baseball Team National Historic Event The Asahi baseball team was designated as a national historic event in 2008. Historical importance: Asahi's athletic and sportsmanlike performances inspired both Japanese and Euro-Canadian spectators. Commemorative plaque: 400 Powell Street, Vancouver, British Columbia Footnote 1 Asahi baseball team Between 1914 and 1941, at a time when Japanese Canadians faced racism, Vancouver's Asahi Baseball Team thrilled fans by winning championships in senior amateur leagues. Its signature offensive strategy, "brain ball," emphasized bunting and speed on the bases, reflected the values of discipline and team work, and, coupled with a sparkling defence, levelled the playing field with more powerful opponents. The Asahi became a symbol of the Japanese-Canadian struggle for equality and respect, and despite being disbanded during the Second World War internment, left a legacy of inspiration for future generations. Asahi Baseball Team Baseball was arguably the most popular sport in Canada during the first half of the 20th century. It was enjoyed as a participatory and spectator sport by all social classes and many ethnocultural communities. Nikkei (persons of Japanese descent living outside Japan) all along the west coast joined in the American and Canadian obsession. By 1910, Nikkei in Vancouver had established their first baseball club, the Nippons, which evolved into the Vancouver Asahi (meaning Rising Sun) in 1914. In 1918, the Asahi began competing against Euro-Canadian teams in Vancouver’s “International League,” and against all-Nikkei teams based on the west coast of the United States. The Asahi developed a strategic style of play (called “brain ball”) that enabled generally smaller-stature Nikkei to excel in competition with their Euro-Canadian counterparts. This style, which emphasized bunting and base running to put pressure on the opponent’s defence, reflected the traditional Japanese cultural values of discipline and teamwork. At a time when Nikkei faced unremitting discrimination, the Asahi’s athletic and sportsmanlike performances inspired both Japanese and Euro-Canadian spectators alike, and helped bridge the generation gap as a common ground of interest for Issei (immigrant Japanese) and Nisei (first generation of Japanese born in Canada). Before disbanding after the 1941 season, the Asahi won multiple championships in Vancouver’s senior amateur and industrial leagues, and in the eleven Pacific Northwest Japanese Baseball tournaments held in Seattle between 1928 and 1941. Along the way, the team became an important part of the Nikkei community in Vancouver, playing most of its games at the Powell Street Grounds in the heart of “Japan Town.” During and after the Second World War internment of Japanese Canadians, Asahi baseball players were at the vanguard of reestablishing baseball as a pillar of Nikkei social life, first in the internment camps in the British Columbia interior, and later in the various centres of resettlement. Through their skill and sportsmanship, the players helped mitigate the humiliation of internment and dispersal by re-establishing a baseball tradition, which served as a basis for closer integration and rapprochement between the Nikkei and Euro-Canadians before, during and after internment. The team became a symbol of the Nikkei’s struggle for equality and respect. Backgrounder last update: 2008-08-19 The National Program of Historical Commemoration relies on the participation of Canadians in the identification of places, events and persons of national historic significance. Any member of the public can nominate a topic for consideration by the Historic Sites and Monuments Board of Canada. - Date modified :


--- [Asahi Baseball Team National Historic Event - Parks Canada] ---
Asahi Baseball Team National Historic Event Vancouver, British Columbia Asahis win the Burrard League Championship, 1940 (© Japanese Canadian National Museum / NNM 1996-180-002) Address : 400 Powell Street, Vancouver, British Columbia Recognition Statute: Historic Sites and Monuments Act (R.S.C., 1985, c. H-4) Designation Date: 2008-08-26 Dates: - 1914 to 1941 (Significant) Other Name(s): - Asahi Baseball Team (Designation Name) Research Report Number: 2007-093 Importance: Asahi's athletic and sportsmanlike performances inspired both Japanese and Euro-Canadian spectators Plaque(s) Existing plaque: 400 Powell Street, Vancouver, British Columbia Between 1914 and 1941, at a time when Japanese Canadians faced racism, Vancouver's Asahi Baseball Team thrilled fans by winning championships in senior amateur leagues. Its signature offensive strategy, "brain ball," emphasized bunting and speed on the bases, reflected the values of discipline and team work, and, coupled with a sparkling defence, levelled the playing field with more powerful opponents. The Asahi became a symbol of the Japanese-Canadian struggle for equality and respect, and despite being disbanded during the Second World War internment, left a legacy of inspiration for future generations.


--- [1940 Game Reports BC Interior - attheplate.com] ---
1940 Vancouver, Lower Mainland, Fraser Valley 1940 BC Interior 1940 Vancouver Island Two senior calibre circuits were operational in Vancouver during the 1940 season, the Burrard Baseball League and the Twilight Baseball League. The Burrard circuit was a seven-inning loop while the Twilighters carried on for a full nine innings. The Burrard Leaguers played a complete schedule and successfully concluded the season with playoffs. On the other hand, even after a solid beginning, the Twilight League began to lose momentum and eventually fizzled to a standstill. VANCOUVER BURRARD LEAGUE (May 6) The Asahis started off where they finished last season, on a winning note, by taming the Patricias 8 to 2 in the opening game of the 1940 Burrard League campaign. Bunching most of their ten hits into two frames, the Nippons came through with four runs in the fourth inning and three more in the fifth when George Shisido tripled with the sacks loaded. Nag Nishimura worked the complete game for the Asahis. His sharp-breaking curve ball and fast one had the Pats breaking their backs. He whiffed ten and the six hits he surrendered were well scattered. A. Reid (L), Patton and McLellan Nishihara (W) and Kutsukake (May 7) Once upon a time, the Asahis were called the hitless wonders of Lower Mainland baseball. In their second game of the new season, however, they demonstrated a propensity for knocking the cover off the horsehide when they rang up 13 hits off a pair of chuckers from the Westerns to hammer the Sports Centre gang 9 to 0. Suga (W) and Kutsukake Stewart (L), Ambler and Mauro (May 10) The Westerns broke into the win column of the Burrard Baseball League with a 5 to 2 victory over the Patricias at the Powell Street grounds. Playing smart baseball behind the five-hit pitching of “Lefty” Thompson, the Westerns gathered eight bingles off the slants of losing flinger Al Moser. Thompson (W) and Mauro A. Moser (L) and McLellan (May 11) Those speed demons on the basepaths are at it again. The Asahis won a thrilling 1 to 0 victory over the Patricias in Burrard League action. Smiling Frank Shiraishi of the Nippons plated the game’s lone run when he scored all the way from second base on an infield out. Nishihara (W) and Kutsukake, Mitsui Patton (L) and van Hatten (May 15) A misjudged fly ball by Ken Van Hatten gave the Westerns a close 4 to 3 victory over the Patricias. His error allowed “Gummy” Leach to cross the plate with the winning run. Earlier in the game, Van Hatten was the hero doubling in a run while an error, this time by Leach, also accounted for a tally. (May 18) Taking full advantage of four first-inning miscues by the Westerns, the flying Asahis scored five counters and went on to take the contest 9 to 5. The Sports Centre squad outhit the Nippons 11 to 8 with Fullen pounding three doubles and losing pitcher “Lefty” Thompson connecting for a four-bagger. Thompson (L) and xxx Nishihara (W) and xxx (May 20) “Rosie” Rosedale of the Westerns and the Patricias’ Al Moser hooked up in the Burrard Baseball League’s first pitcher’s battle of the season, the result being a nine-inning scoreless draw. Rosedale struck out 15 Pats and held them to just two hits, both acquired by Rupe Noble. Moser limited the winners to just four safeties. Rosedale and Mauro A. Moser and McLellan (May 22) The league-leading Asahis held on to score a 7 to 6 win over the late-charging Patricias. The Pats got off to a shaky start but got to winning tosser Nag Nishihara for four runs in the sixth panel to make things close. Roy Yamamura gave his Asahi mates a big lift with a three-run homer and a single. Gibbs (L), Patton and McLellan Nishihara (W) and Kutsukake (May 23) The Westerns took it on the chin from the Patricias at Powell Street, going down by an 8 to 4 count. Andy Reid surrendered seven hits in capturing the mound triumph over “Rosie” Rosedale who was touched for nine safeties but was hampered by the five errors that his mates made. Rosedale (L) and xxx Reid (W) and xxx (May 28) Sacred Heart’s Burrard League debut was a nightmare as the Catholic contingent was hammered 16 to 1 by the Patricias. Victorious moundsman Al Moser held the newcomers to just three hits. Starter “Lefty” Wollochuk of the Hearts was saddled with the hillock defeat. A. Moser (W) and Van Hatten Wollochuk (L), Arts and Babs (May 29) Kaz Suga, Nippon curveball artist, got his pitching act together in the nick of time to save his Asahis from a defeat at the hands of the Westerns. Three runs were in for the Sports Centre Troupe and they had the bases loaded in their final turn at bat when Suga snapped out of his late lapse to whiff the last two batters to face him, preserving an 8 to 5 win for the Nippons. Suga (W) and Kutsukake Steele (L) and Mauro (June 1) Mike Maruno’s eighth-inning double provided the Asahis with a closely fought 7 to 6 victory over the Patricias in a Burrard League contest. Maruno’s drive plated Yuki Uno with the ultimate winner after the Pats had tied the game in the bottom of the seventh on a three-run homer by Mac Cranstoun. Nishihara (W) and Kutsukake Gates, Patton, Reid (L) and Van Hatten (June 4) Andy Reid tossed a three-hitter as the Patricias blanked the Westerns 2 to 0. McLellan and McKay each drove in a run for the winners. Reid (W) and McLellan Stewart (L) and Mauro (June 5) The winless Sacred Heart nine was trimmed 8 to 2 by the Westerns. The Sport Centre troupe rattled out 13 hits with Sam Waxstein collecting three of them. Pausche (W), Ambler and Mauro Arts (L), Wollochuk and Crutchley (June 7) Sacred Heart, who have taken it on the chin from every team in the Burrard League since making their debut in the circuit, finally got into the win column by blanking the Patricias 6 to 0. With three newly acquired players in their lineup, the winners showed new-found power at the dish. George Boston limited the Pats to three scattered bingles. (June 8) Nag Nishihara, ace twirler of the Asahis, used the hickory to good advantage at Powell Street, cracking out two doubles to help himself and the Nippons to a 6 to 4 decision over the Westerns. Rosedale (L) and Mauro Nishihara (W) and Kutsukake (June 10) Mike Maruno pitched six-hit ball as the Asahis beat up on the Sacred Heart gang 9 to 3. George Boston was nailed with the loss, surrendering nine bingles, but didn’t get much help from his mates who committed eight fielding miscues. Boston (L) and xxx Maruno (W) and xxx (June 11) The Patricias moved up in the Burrard League standings, scoring an extra-inning 8 to 5 victory over a stubborn Sacred Heart team. A big Catholic rally in the seventh inning overcame a 5 to 1 Pat lead and sent the game into overtime. Pitcher “Slim” Elligot had a homer and a double for the losing nine. Wallis (W) and Tough McLellan, Elligot (L) and McNaughton (June 12) Wildness on the part of Westerns’ pitcher-manager Frank Ambler helped the Asahis win a closely-fought 6 to 3 Burrard Baseball League game over the Sports Centre nine. The victory was the Asahis’ twelfth in thirteen games this season. Tonny Sawayama, making his Burrard pitching debut, won on a six-hitter. Sawayama (W) and Kutsukake Ambler, Stewart (6) and Mauro (June 14) Catching the battery and infield of the Patricias napping, the ever-alert Mike Maruno of the Asahis stole home with the winning run which enabled the nimble Nippons to win a narrow 6 to 5 game over the Hotelmen. Maruno doubled in the bottom of the final frame, moved to third on an infield error and then scooted home when the Pats weren’t looking. The Patricias had a 5 to 0 lead following their initial turn at bat, spearheaded by Jim Smith’s grand-slam home run. A. Moser, Wallis (L) and Tough Shiraishi, Suga (W) (1) and Kutsukake (June 17) Reliever Jack Gibbs of the Patricias walked four consecutive batters, forcing in the winning tally in the bottom of the last canto, which enabled the Westerns to take a narrow 3 to 2 walkoff victory. Patton, Gibbs (L) and McLellan Stewart (W) and Mauro (June 18) The Asahis breezed through the motions, rolling up an easy 24 to 6 Burrard league win over Sacred Hearts. The Nippons slugged three Catholic hurlers hurlers for 17 hits, two of them homers by Kaz Suga and a third one by Yuki Uno. (June 19) Collecting 12 bingles and several free passes off the debut chucking of Bob Montador, the Patricias bowled over Sacred Heart 12 to 3. Al Moser was the batting star for the victors, poling out three-for-four. Montador (L) and Sparrow Reid, Wallis and McLellan (June 21) Roy Yamamura’s home run in the final inning gave the Asahis a 3 to 2 victory over the Westerns at the Powell Street grounds. With the win, the Nippons tied last season’s Burrard League record of 12 straight wins. Francis, Rosedale (L) (1) and Mauro Suga (W) and Kutsukake (June 22) The Asahis broke their consecutive win record in the Burrard League by blanking Sacred Heart 6 to 0 for their thirteenth consecutive win. (June 24) Fourteen straight Burrard League triumphs and still going. That’s the record of the 1940 Asahis to date. They turned in their most recent victory by swamping the Sacred Hearts team 13 to 1 at the Powell Street grounds. The Nippons raked loser Ed Sheehan for 13 safeties before he was mercifully sent to the showers after 4 1/3 innings. It didn’t help that his mates committed seven errors in the field. Nag Nishihara cruised to the mound decision with a four-hitter. Nishihara (W) and Kutsukake Sheehan (L), Boston (5) and Naples, Sparrow (June 25) Cashing in on errors by replacement shortstop Ken Van Hatten, a catcher by trade, and the sudden weakening of moundsman George Patton, the Westerns broke through for a big 7 to 4 Burrard League victory over the Patricias. Patton, Reid and McLellan Stewart (W) and Mauro (June 26) All good things must come to an end, and so it was with the Asahis’ winning streak in Burrard League baseball. After 14 straight victories, the Nippons were finally stopped by the Patricias 5 to 4. iT took a four-run final inning rally to turn back the Japanese at that. The Pats opened fire on Kaz Suga when Moser and Rupe Noble singled, followed by Ken Van Hatten’s three-run round-tripper, a blast which tied the score. Tommy Faulkner then walked and scored the winning run from second base on McKay’s timely base hit. (June 28) “Lefty” Thompson, Westerns’ relief chucker, came through in the clutch to give his teammates a 9 to 8 victory over the Sacred Hearts. With a one-run lead and the bases loaded, Thompson was summoned into the game and proceeded to retire the last to hitters, preserving the mound win for starter Pat Francis. Francis (W), Thompson (6) and Mauro Naples, Lott and McLaughlin (July 2) Frank Shiraishi, smiling Nippon ball player who normally patrols the outfield for the Asahis, took over mound duties for his club and hurled his mates to a 13 to 0 victory over Sacred Hearts at the Powell Street grounds. Only two hits were garnered by the losers off the slants of Shiraishi. (July 8) The improving Patricias baseball team turned back the Sacred Hearts 12 to 1 at the Powell Street diamond. Bill Kendrick took the mound decision and also added fire at the dish. (July 9) A smartly executed double play in the last inning preserved a 4 to 2 victory for the Asahis over the Westerns in Burrard League play. Suga (W) and Maruno Thompson (L) and Ambler (July 16) Sacred Heart, the weak sister of the Burrard Baseball League, dropped a 14 to 3 decision to the Westerns at Powell Street. “Pip” Steel pitched a four-hitter for the winners, who capitalized on a dozen walks and five Sacred Heart miscues for the lopsided win. Steel (W) and Roach, Ambler Risdale (L), Lott and Sparrow (July 17) The Asahis added another length to their long lead in the Burrard League, drubbing the Patricias 13 to 1 behind Mike Maruno’s five-hit twirling. Frank Shiraishi and Kaz Suga led an 11-hit Nippon assault on a pair of Pat moundsmen. Maruno homered in support of his hurling endeavor. Patton (L), Kendrick and Van Hatten Maruno (W) and Kutsukake (July 19) Committing six errors, the Westerns made things easy for the Asahis who triumphed 8 to 2 in Burrard League action. Mike Maruno, Yuki Uno and George Shishido were the hitting stars for the Nippons. Thompson (L) and Ambler Nishihara (W) and Kutsukake, Mitsui (July 27) Darkness prevented further play causing the Asahis and Patricias to finish their Burrard League game tied 2 – 2. The contest featured a pitcher’s duel between Kaz Suga of the Nippons and Andy Reid of the Pats. (July 29) Sacred Hearts are no longer in the Burrard Baseball League. They have defaulted their remaining games. The Patricias and Westerns will now fight it out for second place with the Asahis holding the bye. (July 30) Hopes of the Westerns crashing the Burrard League playoffs dimmed following a 4 to 2 defeat to the Asahis at the Powell Street grounds. Although “Lefty” Thompson limited the Nippons to seven hits, four miscues by his mates led to the Westerns’ downfall. Nag Nishihara, the star Japanese slabman, held the vanquished nine to five hits. Kaz Suga of the Asahis was the hitting star with a perfect three for three performance at the plate. (July 31) With big Bill Kendrick swinging the hefty hickory, the Patricias tightened their hold on second place in the Burrard League with a 5 to 1 decision over the Westerns. Kendrick’s four-for-four session at the platter included a round-tripper and a double. Winning flinger Reg Wallis held the Western batters down to three hits. Wallis (W) and Van Hatten Ambler (L), Thompson (6) and Mauro (August 1) The Patricias moved a step closer to clinching second-place in the Burrard Baseball League after edging the Asahis 10 to 9 in a loosely-played contest. Jimmy Biggan with four hits, as well as Ken Van Hatten and Tommy Faulkner with three blows each, set a hot hickory pace for the Pats. A belated rally enabled the Nippons to close finish after trailing 10 to 3 in the early innings. (August 3) Pounding the offerings of four hurlers for 13 hits, the Vancouver Asahis won the first game of their Northwest Nippon baseball series at Athletic Park by drubbing the Seattle Giants 19 to 10 in a free-swinging match. Mike Maruno, Asahis’ star third sacker, led with the bat, smacking three doubles and a single. Takeekawa (L), Takayoshi, Sakai, Hada and Kataoka Nishihara, Suga (4) and Kutsusake Semi-final playoffs (August 5) “Lefty” Thompson pitched the Westerns out of a hole, allowing them to salvage a 3 – 3 draw with the Patricias in the first game of their semi-final series. With the tying run already in and runners at second and third, Thompson came in from his right field position to replace starter Steele on the hillock. He struckout pinch-hitter Al Moser without delay to end the threat. Thompson had earlier clouted a homer to give his mates a 3 to 2 edge, a lead which disappeared when Ken Van Hatten of the Pats doubled home Jimmy Biggan in the last half of the same frame to tie the count. Steele, Thompson (7) and Roach Reid and Van Hatten (August 8) “Lefty” Thompson of the Westerns not only hurled a 9 to 0 shutout against the Patricias in the third game of their Burrard League semi-finals, but he also contributed three of the winners’ base hits. Both teams have now won a game in the best-of-five series. Thompson (W) and Roach A. Moser, Patton and Van Hatten (August 12) The Patricias scored a narrow 1 to 0 victory over the Westerns in a great pitching showdown between portsiders Reg Wallis and “Lefty” Thompson. Wallis earned the win with a sizzling two-hitter while Thompson was touched for just four safeties. The win for the Pats eliminated the Westerns from the playoffs. Dick Bentley’s bases-loaded blooper over third base drove in the only tally of the game. Thompson (L) and Roach Wallis (W) and Van Hatten Finals (August 14) The Asahis are one game up on the Patricias for the 1940 Burrard League title. The nimble Nippons stopped the Pats 6 to 4 in a tightly contested battle at the Powell Street diamond. Reid (L) and Bentley Suga (W), Nishihara (7) and Kutsusake (August 16) Bill Kendrick’s bases-empty homer plated the only run of the game as the Patricias evened their series with the Asahis by virtue of a 1 to 0 squeaker at the Powell Street grounds. Winning moundsman Reg Wallis tossed a two-hitter to best “Nag” Nishihara who spun a three-hitter. Nishihara (L) and Kutsukake Wallis (W) and Van Hatten (August 17) Kas Suga, southpaw twirler, hurled a five-hit 3 to 1 win to bolt the Asahis into a two games to one lead over the Patricias in the Burrard League finals. In the fifth frame, doubles by Mike Maruno and Kaz Suga and a single by George Shisido plated two for the win. Reid (L) and Van Hatten Suga (W) and Kutsukake (August 20) Expected to be a runaway for the first-place Asahis, the Burrard Baseball League finals are turning out to be a hard-fought affair. The fourth game of the series ended in a 1 – 1 draw when darkness curtailed further action after five innings had been played. Reg Wallis held the Ashais to two singles while the Patricias managed seven off the deliveries of Nag Nishihara. Nishihara and xxx Wallis and xxx (August 23) The Patricias are still alive after beating the Asahis 8 to 6 in the sixth game of the Burrard League finals. The Nippons, who outhit the Pats 11 to 10, still lead the series three games to two with one game tied. Bill Kendricks pounded three doubles for the winners while Frank Shiraishi bagged a triad of bingles for the losing nine. Nishihara (L) and Kutsukake Reid (W), Patton (3) and Van Hatten (August 27) Another tie game featured the latest battle for Burrard League supremacy. The seventh game ended in a 2 – 2 draw in a game shortened to five innings because of darkness. The Patricias had a 7 to 3 margin in base hits over the Asahis who took the lead with a pair in the second frame. The Pats deadlocked the contest in the third when Jimmy Biggan's long drive to deep centre brought in Dick Cranstoun and Reg Wallis. Bill Kendrick saved the day for the Pats in the fifth when he made a marvelous running catch on Roy Yamamura's bases-loaded long fly. Wallis and Van Hatten Suga and Kutsukake (August 28) The Asahis won the Burrard Baseball League championship when, playing at the Powell Street grounds, they edged past the Patricias 5 to 4. By winning with a four games to two margin to go along with two tie games, the Asahis picked up their eighth lower mainland crown. The Pats virtually handed the title to the Nippons as they outhit the Asahis by a healthy margin, 11 to 4, yet made costly defensive miscues which, combined with the Nippons’ superior baserunning skills, spelled their ultimate doom. Tied 3-3 going into the final frame, Asahis loaded the bases as Roy Yamamura was hit by a pitch, Mike Maruno singled and Kaz Suga drew a free pass. With Andy Reid relieving starter George Patton for the Patricias, Ken Kutsukake connected to drive in a pair for the win. The Patricias roared back in their half of the inning as Jimmy Biggan singled and managed to score on Mosher's drive. Bill Kendrick walked and Rupe Noble reached on an error to load the bases with two out. Reliever Kaz Suga got a pop up to end the game. Nishihara, K.Suga (W) (5) and xxx Patton (L), Reid and xxx JAPANESE PACIFIC NORTHWEST CHAMPIONSHIP (August 3) Vancouver Asahis clobbered the Western Giants of Seattle 22-10 Saturday in the first game of their Northwest Championship series. Errors abounded as the teams tried to deal with the dazzling floodlights. Vancouver made 11 errors, Seattle added eight more. A nine-run first inning for the Asahis put the game on ice early. The Giants did pull to with two runs, at 10-8, with a four-run fourh inning but the Asahis responded with four more in the fifth to pull away. Third sacker Mike Maruno paced the winners with four hits, three of them doubles. He also scored four times and swiped three bases. Ed Nakamura added three safeties. Vancouver had 13 hits and took advantage of 15 free passes, nine by starter Takekawa. Akita was tops for Seattle with three hits. Takekawa (L), Noda, Sakai, Takayoshi and Kataoka Nag Nishihara (W), Kaz Suga (4) and Mitseui (August 25) For the fourth straight year, Vancouver Asahis are the Japanese Pacific Northwest champions. Asahis topped Seattle Western Giants 8-4 in the American city Sunday to win the series in two straight games. Seattle won an exhibition game, 5-4. After falling behind 3-0 in the second frame, Ashais rallied for five runs in the third to take the lead. They added three in the ninth. Asahis pounded out 17 hits, three apiece by Kaz Suga, Frankj Shiraishi and George Shishido. Nag Nishihara relieved starter Suga in the second and allowed just one run the rest of the way. Suga, Nishihara (W) (2) and Kutsukake Sakai (L) and Kataoka In the exhibition match, Tommy Sawayama had a brilliant three-hitter until he tired in the final frame giving up four hits and four runs as Seattle edged the Asahis 5-4. VANCOUVER TWILIGHT LEAGUE (May 9) Diethers jumped upon a weakening Jimmy Clark to score twice in the eighth frame, enough to cop a 2 to 1 victory over the Athletics in the opening game of the Vancouver Twilight League. Up until the fateful eighth, Clark had struck out eleven, allowed only two hits and issued no free passes. At that point his pinpoint control deserted him as he walked a pair, delivered a pitch which Bruce Thirsk drilled for a run-scoring single which tied the game and then issued a two-bagger to Sam Waxstein which plated the winning counter. Bill Richardson got the mound decision with a six-hitter. Clark (L) and McDonald Richardson (W) and Henry (May 10) Catholic Youth Organization, making their debut in the Twilight League, dusted off Merritt-Gordon 8 to 1 as veteran Fred Yehle was in mid-season form, setting the Emgees down on three hits. C.Y.O. nicked losing flinger Bishop for ten hits. Bishop (L) and Jones Yehle (W) and J. McCarthy (May 11) The Athletics forced a three-way tie for top spot in the Twilight Baseball League when they took a 6 to 5 decision over C.Y.O. at Athletic Park. With the game deadlocked 5 – 5 in the bottom of the eighth canto, Jimmy Tough of the A’s singled and came home with the winning run when Schultz drove a double to deep left field. Alexander (L) and J. McCarthy McIntyre (W), Clark (7) and McDonald (May 13) Diethers blanked Merritt-Gordon 6 to 0 as “Lefty” Gervais coasted to the mound win with a three-hitter, accumulating ten strikeouts along the way. Playing-manager Reg Wallis toiled on the hill for the Merritts, allowing seven hits and whiffing eight Coalmen. Wallis (L) and Harkness Gervais (W) and Henry (May 20) George Boston hurled a five-hitter as the Athletics dumped Merritt-Gordon 10 to 3 in Twilight League action. The winners ripped ten hits off the heaves of a brace of Emgee chuckers. P. Condon (L), Bishop and Raynor Boston (W) and McDonald (May 21) Diethers suffered their first defeat in the 1940 Twilight League campaign when they were bumped by C.Y.O. 7 to 5. Both teams registered ten base hits. Tommy Kennedy headed C.Y.O. sluggers with a triad of base knocks while Jimmy Biggan, Diether leadoff batter, also registered three safeties. Richardson (L), Gervais (3) and Henry Yehle (W) and McLaughlin (May 22) Diethers lost their second in a row, the most recent being a 13 to 5 shellacking at the hands of the red-hot Athletics. Jimmy Tough and Jimmy McKissock both collected three hits for the A’s while Vancouver Capilano star, Ross Edy, on a rehab assignment with both the A’s and Merritt-Gordon, picked up two well-hit doubles. McIntyre (W) and McDonald Nuyens (L), Musgrave (6) and Henry (May 23) Merritt-Gordon, severely lacking in offensive strength, blew a great chance for a win but had to settle, instead, for a 3 – 3 tie with C.Y.O. Entering the final inning, the Emgees quickly loaded the sacks but strikeouts and poor baserunning closed the door of opportunity. Wallace and Raynor McKenzie, R. Holden and McLaughlin (May 24) An all-star aggregation from the Victoria Senior Baseball League defeated the Athletics of the Vancouver Twilight League 5 to 0 and 4 to 2 in an inter-city exhibition twin-bill played in the Capital City. Close to 2,000 fans witnessed the games. Clark (L), McIntyre and Van Hatten Richardson (W) and Bridgewood Musgrave (L) and Holden, Bentley Davies (W) and Bridgewood (May 27) George Boston’s left-handed slants had C.Y.O. eating out of his hand as the cagey portsider hurled the first-place Athletics to a three-hit 5 to 1 Twilight League victory. At the platter, the A’s gave Boston ample support with ten base raps off Fred Yehle’s deliveries. Yehle (L) and McLaughlin Boston (W) and Van Hatten (May 30) Newcomer Jack Smith took to the hill and pitched Diethers to a 7 to 0 whitewashing of C.Y.O. at Athletic Park. Smith limited the Catholics to four scattered hits. Three consecutive doubles in the fourth stanza by Bruce Thirsk, Ellis and Gibbs ignited the Coalmen to a four-run outburst which proved to be more than enough to claim victory. Smith (W) and Henry Hoffert (L) and McLaughlin Standings W L Pct. Athletics 5 1 .833 Diethers 4 2 .667 C.Y.O. 2 3 .400 Merritt-Gordon 0 5 .000 (June 3) Fred Yehle had the sign on Merritt-Gordon sluggers when he held them to four scattered bingles as C.Y.O. took a convincing 8 to 0 Twilight League win. Bishop (L), Wallis and Smith Yehle (W) and McLaughlin (June 4) The league-leading Athletics were held to a 3 – 3 draw by Diethers at Athletic Park. (June 5) The Merritt-Gordons have dropped out of the Twilight Baseball League citing an uncompetitive team as being the reason. Some of their current players will be used to bolster the rosters of the remaining three clubs. (June 5) Breaking a 3 – 3 tie with seventh and eighth inning tallies, the Athletics grabbed a 6 to 3 victory over C.Y.O. Joe Naples of the A’s and Ed Holden of C.Y.O both hit four-baggers. (June 14) Limiting the opposition to only four hits, Fred Yehle pitched C.Y.O. to a convincing 8 to 0 victory over Diethers in Twilight League action. Losing flinger Jack Smith was nicked for 12 hits. Yehle (W) and McLaughlin Smith (L) and Henry (June 15) The Athletics of the Twilight League knocked off the Asahis of the Burrard League 15 to 12 in an inter-league exhibition game at Athletic Park. Nishihara, K. Suga and Kutsukake Boston, Clark (1), Inkster (W) and McDonald (June 17) Rolling right along following their showdown with the Asahis, the Twilight League’s Athletics trounced Diethers 13 to 3. McIntyre got the hillock triumph with a five-hitter. Ken Lawn led the A’s with the lumber, stroking a triple and a pair of singles. McIntyre (W) and McDonald, Van Hatten Ellis, Reid, Henry and Henry, Thirsk (June 21) The Athletics fattened their lead in the Twilight Baseball League, whipping C.Y.O. 7 to 3 at Athletic Park. The teams were tied 3 – 3 when the A’s turned loose a burst of power in the eighth stanza to walk away with the game. Jimmy Van Hatten stroked a perfect four-for-four for the winners. Jimmy Clark/Clarke went the route for the A’s while Fred Yehle was the losing chucker. (July 2) C.Y.O. moved up on the leaders in the Twilight League when they turned back Diethers 13 to 2 at Athletic Park. Fred Yehle, on the mound for the winners, allowed only six hits. Eddie Holden cracked out a homer and triple to drive in five of the C.Y.O. tallies. “Lefty” Gervais toiled on the hillock for Diethers. Yehle (W) and xxx Gervais (L) and xxx (July 4) Ed Henry, more at home with a mask on and behind the plate, surprised even himself by pitching four-hit ball for Diethers who blanked the league-leading Athletics 5 to 0 at Athletic Park. Three of the four hits Henry allowed were singles, all hit by Joe Naples. Henry (W) and Ingram Clark (L) and J. Tough (July 8) An all-star team from the Twilight League defeated the touring Piney Woods, Mississippi colored team 13 to 5. Southpaw George Boston of the Vancouverites went the route on the slab for the win. Ralph Stong of the Twilighters blasted a two-run homer. Thompson (L), Johnson and Williams Boston (W) and Henry (July 9) Piney Woods dropped their second exhibition game verdict to the Vancouver Twilight Selects 9 to 8. Roy Holden, the Twilighters’ shortstop, hit a ninth-inning double which drove in the tying and winning markers. xxx (L) and xxx Smith (W) and xxx (July 22) Ralph Stong, who used to cavort in the outer pasture for the Athletics, came back in a C.Y.O. uniform to haunt his former mates, slamming a double which drove in the tying marker in a 5 – 5 game. The A’s held a healthy margin in base hits, 10 to 4, but were unable deliver them at opportune times. McIntyre and Van Hatten Sheehan and McLaughlin (August 7) After a season of postponements and re-shuffling, the Vancouver Twilight Baseball League announced that a best-of-seven playoff series would begin. With the Athletics having no difficulty in capturing first place, league officials decided to break up their powerful outfit with some of their players being assigned to the other two teams. No evidence was found in print that any playoffs were ever conducted. VANCOUVER JAPANESE LEAGUE (June 23) Had he played 20 years later Tommy Sawayama would have been compared to Steve Dalkowski the Oriole's hard throwing wild man who in 1960, a typical season, fanned 262 in just 170 innings. But, he also walked 262. Sawayama, described as "slight", "little" and a "mighty mite" brought cheers and sighs Sunday as he pitched Steveston Fujis to a 15-6 victory over Union Fish. He allowed just five hits, racked up 16 strikeouts and issued 15 free passes ! The game featured one more outrageous number - 13 - the number of errors by the Fish. Fujis rapped a dozxen hits with Sawayama and Ken Mori each with three. Sawayama (W) and Sogawa Kamitomo (L), Kutsukake and Maruno (June 23) Powell Drugs ran up an 8-0 lead after two innings and coasted to a 12-4 triumph over the Giants. Koei Mitsui paced a 14 hit attack with a bases-loaed triple and a bases-loaded double. Doc Yashui added three hits. George Yoshinaka held the Giants to seven hits. Starter Frank Shiraishi took the loss. Shiraishi (L), Fujioka and Kutsukake Yoshinaka (W) and Mitsui (August 04) The Powell Street grounds were buzzing with excitement and a near riot Sunday in sudden-death action in the Vancouver Japanese League. In the afternoon, Harold Shimoda, who had fanned three straight times, crushed a three-run homer in the seventh inning to pace Powell Drug to a 6-4 win over Steveston Fuji. Later, Union Fish overcame a 7-4 deficit with four markers in the sixth and another in the seventh to top the Giants 9-8 and advance to the league final series. Steveston had a golden opportunity to tie the game in the ninth with two runners aboard and no outs. But playing manager Nag Nishihara bounced into a double play and Doug Oike grounded out to end the game. George Yoshinaka allowed six hits in going the distance for the win, besting Duke Kusano who yielded the game-winning blow to his ex-teammate Shimoda. Kusano (L) and Sogawa Yoshinaka (W) and Mitsui In the second game, Union Fish notched the winner in the seventh inning when Ty Suga walked Chum Inouye with the bases loaded. Giants had taken the lead with three in the top of the first inning. Union Fish scored one in the first and three in the second to take the lead. But the Giants, with a five-run fifth inning again went ahead before the Union Fish tied the game with a four-run outburst in the sixth and the winner in the seventh. Nobby Tanaka and George Suzuki led a 15-hit attack each with three safeties. Nobuo Kamitomo was the winning hurler, holding the Giants to eight hits. The dispute arose when the Giants' Eddie Nakamura slugged one over the centre-field sidewalk. Ordinarily, the hit would have been good enough for a two-bagger, but Baron Wakabayashi, the speedy Union centre fielder vaulted over the embankment and made a sparkling catch off the sidewalk. The argument was over whether or not Nakamura was out. Umpire Roy Yamamura first called him out. But the Giants protested. The league's ground rules stated any ball hit over the sidewalks, touching the trees was considered a two-bagger. But with the ball failing to touch the trees, the Giants had an argument, which lasted half an hour with the ruling going back and forth and back again. Finally, the game resumed, with Nakamura back at the plate, this time to received an intentional pass. Suga (L) and Kutsukake Kamitomo (W) and Maruno (August 11) The 1939 champion Union Fish upset the 1940 favourites, Steveston Fuji 6-4 to win a spot in the league final against Powell Drug. Both teams got on the scoreboard in the first inning. Nobby Tanaka reached on an error for Union Fish and came around to score on a safety by Baron Wakabayashi. Fuji evened the count as Ken Mori banged out a hit and scooted home on Doug Kusano's hot drive. Tanaka again scored in the third as Mike Maruno knocked him home with a two-bagger. Steveston took the lead, 3-2 with a pair in the fifth, but Union added a brace in the sixth and another pair in the eighth. Fuji had a chance in the bottom of the eighth with the bases loaded but managed just one marker. Kamitomo, Maruno and Maruno, Fukui xxx and xxx (August 18) Powell Drug raced out to a 10-3 lead then held off two late rallies by Union Fish to take the opener of their playoff series 10-9. A sparkling defensive play by centre fielder Doc Yasui in the eighth inning may have saved the day for Powell's. With the bases jammed, George Suzuki of the Fish blasted one to deep centre field. Kaz Suga, playing left field, started running at the crack of the bat and the same instant Yasui charged from the opposite direction. The ball went soaring over Suga's head, but Yasui chased it down to end the threat. Union Fish again loaded the bases in the ninth and Joe Akiyama cleared the sacks with a three-bagger. Baron Wakabayashi followed with a sharp single to centre to plate the fourth run of the inning and leave the Union Fish just a run back. But, again it was Yasui who got the winners out of trouble making a beautiful running catch in short centre field to end the game. Kutsukake (L), Kamitomo and Fukui Yoshinaka (W) and Mitsui (September 1) A three-run fifth inning carired Union Fish to a 4-1 victory over Powell Drug to knot their final series at a game apiece. All three runs were unearned. With Mike Maruno and Baron Wakabayashi aboard, George Suzuki drove one to right field. Kaz Suga made a stab for the ball but he suffered a dislocated finger as the horsehide jammed his finger and fell to the ground as Suzuki completed the circuit. Otto Yanagisawa knocked in the final run for Union Fish in the eighth. The only run for Powell Drug came in the second inning with Koei Misui belting a double and scoring on Harold Shimoda's sac bunt. Jimmy Fukui yielded eight hits in a complete game victory. Yoshinaka (L), Terada and Mitsui Fukui (W) and Maruno (September 8) From the league cellar during the regular season to the Japanese League championship, Union Fish Sunday downed highly favoured Powell Drug 9-6 for their second straight league crown. They won the series in two straight games. A four-base error in the second inning led to a five-run outburst by the Union Fish. An error on Shig Okumura's long fly to left allowed the third sacker to make the circuit. Another run came home as Chum Inouye, Joe Aklyama and Nobuo Kamitomo followed with safeties. Reliever Chuck Terada walked in a run and George Suzuki droubled to drive in two more. In the fifth, Powell Drug rallied to tie on five hits, one a triple by Kaz Suga. But the Union's reclaimed the lead in the seventh scoring three times. Baron Wakabayashi drove in a pair and Suzuki, who had three hits, followed with a run-scoring single. Kamitomo, Maruno (W) and Maruno, Fukui Yoshinaka, Terada (L) (2) and Mitsui VANCOUVER BUSSEI LEAGUE (August 04) Hompa took the opening game of the best-of-three Bussei final series trouncing Fairview 9-2 before the largest crowd ot the season. A three-run third frame proved to be enough for the triumph. Otto Yanagisawa rapped a triple to knock in two runs and then scored on an error. Kay Kaminishi had a trhee-bagger in the first inning and scored the Hompa's first run on a single by Nobby Tanaka. A homer by Yos Hamakawa in the second tied it for Fairview. After the teams exchanged runs in the sixth, Hompa wrapped up the contest with four runs in the seventh as Chum Inouye, Yanagisawa, Nick Nosuye and Kiyoshi Suga came through with four straight hits. Tomi Nishikawa had Fairview's second four-bagger. Kiyoshi Misumi allowed just six hits in going the distance for the win. Nishimura (L) and Tanaka Misumi (W) and Yanagisawa (August) Hompa, league champions. (August 18) The Bussei champions, Hompa, demolished the visiting Tacoma nine 18-2. Hompa erupted for four runs in the first inning, one on Nobby Tanaka's home run, and added three in the second to put the game on ice. Kiyoshi Misumi checked Tacoma on four hits, including Horita's two-run homer in the final frame. Chum Inouye had four hits for the winners and Tanaka had three. Akimoto (L), Horita and Tanabe Misumi (W) and xxx WOODFIBRE JAPANESE LEAGUE (September 15) Joe Koyanagi fired a five-hit shutout Sunday to pace the league-leading Eagles to a 5-0 win over the Cardinals in the sudden-death championship game of the Woodfibre Baseball League. Koyanagi topped Tosh Omoto of the Cards who allowed just seven hits. Koyanagi (W) and xxx Omoto (L) and xxx


--- [Remembering the Vancouver Asahi - The Other Press] ---
Legendary baseball team endured hardship as team was disbanded during WWII By Brandon Yip, Senior Columnist On the ball diamond, for nine brief innings, they were equals with anyone else. The importance of what that meant to the Japanese-Canadian community in the Vancouver area still resonates today.” – Jason Beck, BC Sports Hall of Fame curator This year marks 80 years since the amateur Japanese-Canadian baseball team Vancouver Asahi played their final game at Oppenheimer Park. The Asahi (meaning “morning sun”) were a source of pride and a beacon of hope for the Japanese-Canadian community in Vancouver, helping their spirits as they experienced the hardships of racial discrimination in the early 1900s. The Asahi played their home games at Oppenheimer Park (originally known as Powell Street Grounds) from 1914 to 1941. The team was not playing baseball merely for recreation and to pass time; they played to compete and win. The Asahi would develop into a very competitive team winning numerous amateur baseball titles in several leagues. The community shutdown to attend games In the late 1880s, an influx of Japanese immigrants arrived in Vancouver noted by the arrival of Manzo Nagano in May 1877, the first Japanese person to arrive and settle in Canada. Early Japanese settlers worked in the lumber, mining, and fishing industries. Japanese-Canadians later settled in Vancouver’s Downtown Eastside area which was known as Japantown, Little Tokyo, or Paueru Gai (Powell Street) located east of Gastown and north of Chinatown. Businesses and livelihoods eventually developed and the game of baseball would soon capture the attention of the Japanese-Canadian community—bringing them together. According to Pat Adachi’s 1992 book, Asahi: A Legend in Baseball, the team was formed in 1914 by several players, which included three brothers: Hatsu Mickey Kitagawa, Yo Horii, and Eddie Kitagawa (Canadian born). Others included Yosomatsu Nishizaki and Canadian-born Tom Matoba who formed the nucleus of the Asahi; the team was managed by Matsujiro Miyasaki (1914 to 1917), a local clothing and food store owner. Dave Zarum, in his 2019 Sportsnet.ca article wrote this about the Asahi: “multiple generations of Japanese-Canadian families congregated at Oppenheimer Park near Powell and Main Street. Businesses closed, schools let out early, and if there happened to be a Sunday game the church was empty, too.” The art of “brain ball” A turning point for the Asahi occurred in 1922 when Harry Miyasaki, a Powell Street dry cleaner, took over as team manager. His objective was to form a team that could defeat the Anglo-Canadian baseball clubs and capture the Terminal League Championship. The Asahi were not known for their size (the players were significantly smaller than their Caucasian baseball counterparts) but the Asahi did not let their lack of mass be an impediment in their baseball. To compensate for his team’s absent height and hitting power, Miyasaki taught his players to practice bunting, base running, and “squeeze” plays. These strategies became known as “brain ball” and would become their trademark. In May 1928, the Asahi won a game by the score of 3 to 1. Many people would wonder what the significance of a 3 to 1 result was, but it should be noted that the Asahi did not get a single hit in this game. Instead they relied on bunts, steals, and errors by the opposition. Al Mosher, who was a pitcher for the Downtown Patricia’s ball club, played against the Asahi. He remembered their speed and how quickly they would get to baseballs when playing defence. “As far as the defence, they were the best ball players around,” Mosher said in the 2003 documentary, Sleeping Tigers: The Asahi Baseball Story. “You couldn’t hit a ball through the infield past them. They were just like cats onto it.” However, Mosher noticed a weakness: “But the only thing they couldn’t do [was] hit worth a lick.” In 1919, the Asahi won their first championship playing in the amateur Vancouver International League. In 1926, the team won the Terminal League title and later won three more titles in 1930, 1932, and 1933. In 1936, they won the championship in the Commercial League (former City Senior B League) and the next year they won another Commercial League title. From 1938 to 1940, they captured three straight championships (Burrard League). The Asahi were showing their dominance, as more titles followed. For five consecutive years, they were the Pacific Northwest Japanese Baseball Champions (1937 to 1941). This was highlighted by a memorable 1938 campaign, winning three championships (Burrard League, Commercial League, and Pacific Northwest Japanese League). In their final season in 1941 (Burrard League), the Asahi were defeated by Angelus in the fifth playoff game (semi-finals) on September 18. Japanese-Canadian internment camps World War II began in 1939 and in December 1941, Japan attacked Pearl Harbour and invaded Hong Kong leading Canada to declare war on Japan. The federal government issued the 1914 War Measures Act to register and label all Japanese-Canadians as “enemy aliens.” All Canadians of Japanese descent were removed from the designated hundred-mile security zone along the BC west coast. Approximately, 21,000 Japanese-Canadians were transported to live in internment camps in the BC Interior; it was the largest mass exodus in Canadian history. Among the 21,000 Japanese-Canadians 8,000 were placed at Hastings Park as a holding camp between March and September 1942 before being relocated to internment camps. Given only 24 to 48 hours to gather belongings they could only carry in a couple of bags, Asahi players packed their uniforms and baseball gloves, photo albums, and scrapbooks. Also, the federal government confiscated the property and possessions of Japanese-Canadians. This was done to finance the internment camps while also discouraging them from returning to the West Coast. Sadly, it also marked the end of the Asahi baseball team who played their final game at Oppenheimer Park on September 18, 1941. Reparations According to a 2001 CBC article about Japanese internment in Canada, after the war, the federal government made the decision to remove all Japanese-Canadians from BC. They were forced to pick either being deported to war-ravaged Japan, or disperse east of the Rocky Mountains. Most selected the latter and subsequently moved to Quebec, Ontario, and the Prairie provinces. Public protest would ultimately stop the deportations; however, 4,000 Japanese-Canadians had already left Canada. On April 1, 1949, Japanese-Canadians had reclaimed their freedom to live anywhere in the country. In September 1988, the Canadian government under then Prime Minister Brian Mulroney issued a formal apology to Japanese Canadian survivors and families interned during WWII. He also announced a compensation package totaling $300 million, which included money for survivors as well as cash for a Japanese community fund and other money to be used to create the Canadian Race Relations Foundation. In May 2012, the BC government also issued an apology read by Naomi Yamamoto—the first Japanese-Canadian to be elected to BC parliament. Interview with Jason Beck, BC Sports Hall of Fame curator Jason Beck is the curator at the BC Sports Hall of Fame and was involved in the organizing of the team’s induction into the BC Sports Hall of Fame in April 2005. He said the team was a special one who brought pride and joy to a Japanese-Canadian community that endured so much hardship. “What made that team so special was what they accomplished on the ball field and the respect they earned amongst the sports community for their abilities and skill at a time when Japanese-Canadians were being openly discriminated against in most other areas of life,” Beck said in an email interview with the Other Press. “On the ball diamond, for nine brief innings, they were equals with anyone else. The importance of what that meant to the Japanese-Canadian community in the Vancouver area still resonates today.” Beck says it is tragic that WWII disbanded the Asahi, but he believes they left an indelible legacy: “I think the Asahi legacy is an example of the power of sport to bridge gaps between people of different backgrounds. I think they should also be remembered as one of the great teams in BC sport history because as much as their accomplishments on the field were significant, their story goes beyond baseball, beyond sport.” Post-war recognition Despite the Asahi being disbanded for over 60 years, the team would finally receive recognition and have their accomplishments acknowledged in 2003. Notably, a book written by Pat Adachi in 1992, Asahi: A Legend in Baseball, helped revive interest in the Asahi and bring their story to newer generations. In June of 2003, the Asahi were inducted into the Canadian Baseball Hall of Fame and Museum. That year the National Film Board released documentary Sleeping Tigers: The Asahi Baseball Story. In April 2005, the Asahi were inducted into the BC Sports Hall of Fame. In addition, in September 2011, a ceremony held in Oppenheimer Park announced a Parks Canada plaque to be installed. The plaque was placed two years later to acknowledge the national historic significance of the Asahi baseball team and their legacy playing games in the park. Furthermore, the film The Vancouver Asahi premiered at the 2014 Vancouver International Film Festival, and later received a Top Audience Award. A new Heritage Minute video about the Asahi was recently released. Scooter Corkle was the director and was raised near the site of the internment camps in BC’s Kootenay Valley. He said it was “an immense honour” to get the opportunity to film about the Asahi telling Sportsnet: “I’d heard of them but never knew the extent to which their legacy lived on.” Stamp of approval In April 2019, Canada Post honoured the team with the unveiling of a commemorative stamp—appropriately in the shape of a baseball. It was designed by Subplot Inc. of Vancouver showing 11 players from the 1940 team. Among the 11 players was 97-year-old Kaye Kaminishi, the last surviving member of the Asahi. Carla Qualtrough, minister of Public Services and Procurement and Accessibility responsible for Canada Post, attended the special ceremony. She discussed the tragic period in Canadian history with the Canadian Press: “This stamp reflects the Asahi’s determination to overcome racism and discrimination through the power of sport. Asahi players exhibited integrity, honour, and fair play and were shining examples of what it means to be truly Canadian.” The late Kiyoshi Suga, a former Asahi team member was also a statistician and secretary of the club. In the same 2003 documentary, he remembered how special the Asahi were in uniting Japanese-Canadians during times of hardship: “They gave us a sense of pride I guess more than anything else. They were our idols. They were our team regardless of where you lived on the coast. They were fighting for us, fighting for all Japanese. Despite all the hardships that were imposed on us, they showed us they could fight; they showed us [we] could overcome anything.”
