=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Johanna Sigurdartottir former Prime Minister Iceland]
In 1962, Sigurðardóttir became a stewardess for Loftleiðir Icelandic airlines and remained one until 1971. Her political life began while working as a stewardess through the unions. She was a very active unionist, "twice serving as chairman of the board of the Icelandic Cabin Crew Association (1966, 1969)."
URL: https://clubmadrid.org/who/members/sigurdartottir-johanna/

[Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir — Council of Women World Leaders]
Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir served as Prime Minister of Iceland from 2009-2013. She was the first female Prime Minister of Iceland and was the world's first openly gay Prime minister.
URL: https://www.councilwomenworldleaders.org/johanna-sigurdardttir

[Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir - Students | Britannica Kids | Homework Help]
Sigurðardóttir was born on October 4, 1942, in Reykjavík, Iceland. She worked as a flight attendant for Loftleiðir Icelandic Airlines from 1962 to 1971. Sigurðardóttir was an active labor union member, twice chairing the board of the Icelandic Cabin Crew Association. She took an office job in Reykjavík in 1971.
URL: https://kids.britannica.com/students/article/J%C3%B3hanna-Sigur%C3%B0ard%C3%B3ttir/627180

[10 Famous Former Flight Attendants: A Brief Guide - Simple Flying]
2 Johanna Sigurðardóttir Further north, Johanna Sigurðardóttir was a flight attendant with Icelandic Airlines from 1962 to 1971, and became very active within the fight attendant unions. She served as the Prime Minister of Iceland from 2009 until 2013 and was the country's first female PM.
URL: https://simpleflying.com/famous-former-flight-attendants-a-brief-guide/

[Pink Politicians: Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir of Iceland - Vada Magazine]
On the 26 th January 2009. Icelandic Prime Minister Geir Haarde handed the resignation of his government to PresidentÓlafur Ragnar after 14 weeks of protests against the government's handling of the financial crisis that gripped the country. All three of the country's major private banks collapsed after being unable to refinance their bad debt and with a run on deposits in the USA ...
URL: https://vadamagazine.com/features/opinions/pink-politicians-johanna-sigurdardottir-iceland


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Johanna Sigurdartottir former Prime Minister Iceland] ---
Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir served as Prime Minister of Iceland from 2009-2013. She was the first female Prime Minister of Iceland and was the world’s first openly gay Prime minister. Sigurðardóttir studied at the Commercial College of Iceland and graduated with a degree in 1960 (the Commercial College of Iceland is the equivalent of a vocational high school). In 1962, Sigurðardóttir became a stewardess for Loftleiðir Icelandic airlines and remained one until 1971. Her political life began while working as a stewardess through the unions. She was a very active unionist, “twice serving as chairman of the board of the Icelandic Cabin Crew Association (1966, 1969).” Despite having worked extensively for various airline unions, Sigurðardóttir’s professional political career is said to have begun in 1978, when she was elected into the Althingi (the Icelandic Parliament) representing the Reykjavík constituency. While in the Althingi, Sigurðardóttir served as Deputy Speaker in 1979, from 1983 to 1984, and from 2003 to 2007. She served on numerous committees ranging from Foreign Affairs and Constitutional Affairs to Economy/Trade and Social Affairs. Additionally, she served as Minister of Social Affairs and Social Security twice – from 1987 to 1994 and from 2007 to 2009. Sigurðardóttir is Iceland’s longest serving member of Parliament and has been listed among Forbes’ 100 most powerful women in the world. In 2017, she released a biography entitled Minn tími (“My Time”).


--- [Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir — Council of Women World Leaders] ---
Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir Prime Minister of Iceland (2009-2013) Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir served as Prime Minister of Iceland from 2009-2013. She was the first female Prime Minister of Iceland and was the world’s first openly gay Prime minister. Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir was born on October 4th, 1942, in Reykjavík, Iceland. She studied at the Commercial College of Iceland and graduated with a degree in 1960 (the Commercial College of Iceland is the equivalent of a vocational high school). In 1962, Jóhanna became a stewardess for Loftleiðir Icelandic airlines and remained one until 1971. Her political life began while working as a stewardess through the unions. She was a very active unionist, “twice serving as chairman of the board of the Icelandic Cabin Crew Association (1966, 1969).” Despite having worked extensively for various airline unions, Jóhanna’s professional political career is said to have begun in 1978, when she was elected into the Althingi (the Icelandic Parliament) representing the Reykjavík constituency. While in the Althingi, Jóhanna served as Deputy Speaker in 1979, from 1983 to 1984, and from 2003 to 2007. She served on numerous committees ranging from Foreign Affairs and Constitutional Affairs to Economy/Trade and Social Affairs. Additionally, she served as Minister of Social Affairs and Social Security twice - from 1987 to 1994 and from 2007 to 2009. Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir is Iceland’s longest serving member of Parliament and has been listed among Forbes’ 100 most powerful women in the world. In 2017, she released a biography entitled Minn tími ("My Time"). PHOTO: Herman Van Rompuy


--- [Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir - Students | Britannica Kids | Homework Help] ---
(born 1942). The first female prime minister of Iceland was Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir, who served in that post from 2009 to 2013. She was also the world’s first openly gay head of government (Per-Kristian Foss, an openly gay man, had served briefly as acting prime minister of Norway in 2002). Sigurðardóttir was born on October 4, 1942, in Reykjavík, Iceland. She worked as a flight attendant for Loftleiðir Icelandic Airlines from 1962 to 1971. Sigurðardóttir was an active labor union member, twice chairing the board of the Icelandic Cabin Crew Association. She took an office job in Reykjavík in 1971. While there, she continued her association with organized labor, and she sat on the board of the Commercial Workers’ Union. In 1978 Sigurðardóttir was elected to the Althingi (parliament) as a member of the Social Democratic Party. She quickly gained a reputation as an advocate for social justice, and she called for the strengthening of Iceland’s welfare system. Sigurðardóttir was named minister of social affairs in 1987. She held that position until 1994, when she unsuccessfully campaigned for leadership of the Social Democratic Party. Sigurðardóttir responded to this setback by forming her own party, National Movement. It captured four seats in the next parliamentary elections. The two parties later reconciled, and they formally united in 2000 as the Social Democratic Alliance. By this time, Sigurðardóttir had established herself as one of the leading personalities in Icelandic politics. She returned to the ministry of social affairs in 2007. Sigurðardóttir emerged as a voice of calm in the wake of Iceland’s financial collapse in 2008. The conservative prime minister Geir Haarde resigned in January 2009. Sigurðardóttir led a coalition of Social Democrats and Left-Greens to form a caretaker minority government. On February 1, 2009, she was formally sworn in as Iceland’s prime minister. In the April elections the Social Democrats and Left-Greens won 34 seats, capturing a slim majority in the 63-member parliament. Shortly thereafter Sigurðardóttir announced that one of her top priorities as prime minister would be securing Iceland’s membership in the European Union. The country submitted its formal application for EU membership in July 2009. On June 27, 2010, same-sex marriage became legal in Iceland. Sigurðardóttir and her partner Jónína Leósdóttir were married that day. To combat Iceland’s grave economic crisis, Sigurðardóttir’s administration increased taxes and decreased government spending. Although the economy began to improve, her coalition was voted out of office in the parliamentary elections of 2013. Sigurðardóttir was replaced as prime minister by Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson.


--- [10 Famous Former Flight Attendants: A Brief Guide - Simple Flying] ---
No content


--- [Pink Politicians: Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir of Iceland - Vada Magazine] ---
- Trussterf*ck: The downfall of Liz Truss - 21 October, 2022 - Lizz Truss: Prime Minister of chaos - 20 October, 2022 - Vada presents The Übervision Song Contest - 9 April, 2020 In this series of articles I want to look at those who have smashed the pink celling in politics. I will endeavor to look at their legacy that they have set individually. First we go to Iceland where Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir became the world’s first openly gay head of government. Born in 1942; Jóhanna studied at a vocational high school for a commercial diploma. She went on to become a flight attendant for Loftleiðir (a predecessor to Icelandair). Jóhanna became an active trade unionist presiding over three associations relating to the cabin crew sector. She was elected to the Alþingi or Althing for the English translation (The Icelandic parliament) to serve as an MP in 1978 for the Reykjavik constituency. The Alþingi only having 40 seats at this stage. Jóhanna enjoyed early success being elected deputy speaker in 79 and then elected vice-chairman of her party, the Social Democratic party. A position held until 1993. Jóhanna was appointed to the cabinet as Minister for Sicial Affairs in 1987, a position she had held over four separate cabinets up until 1994. Jóhanna had challenged for the party leadership in 1994 and was unsuccessful. She then left the party to form the National Awekening party. In the 1995 election they took 7.2% of the vote which won them four of the 63 seats. A year later the National Awakening party merged with Jóhanna’s old party to form the Social Deomcratic Alliance. From 1994-2003 Jóhanna served as an active member of the opposition, sitting on numerous parliamentary committees. In 2003 she stood in the newly formed Rekyavik South seat after her constituency was carved up. Jóhanna returned to the deputy speaker role. In 2007 the Social Democratic Alliance was returned to government as a coalition partner to the Independence Party with Jóhanna named Minister for Social Affairs & Social Security. On the 26thJanuary 2009. Icelandic Prime Minister Geir Haarde handed the resignation of his government to PresidentÓlafur Ragnar after 14 weeks of protests against the government’s handling of the financial crisis that gripped the country. All three of the country’s major private banks collapsed after being unable to refinance their bad debt and with a run on deposits in the USA, Netherlands and the UK the system collapsed. The largest experienced by any country in economic history. Haarde feared the nation would be sucked “into the whirlpool” created by the banking collapse which could have led to the country going bankrupt. Iceland’s national debt jumped to around £40bn, 80% of that was held by the banking sector. Iceland’s GDP (Total value of goods and services produced) was £6.7bn in 2007. This debt at 11 times the rate of GDP meant the Government central bank couldn’t step in and they went to the IMF for a bailout. President Ragnar looked to the Social Democratic Alliance and the Left-Green Movement to form a coalition government and hold elections in April. Jóhanna was proposed as Prime Minister following a popularity rise for her as minister. She had a 73% approval rating, on the 1st February following support from the Progressive Party a new Cabinet was appointed with Jóhanna taking the job of PM. Becoming the world’s first openly gay head of government. As directed by President Ragnar Iceland went to the polls on 25th April. Both the Social Deomcratic Alliance and the Left-Green Movement made gains meaning they could command a majority, their former coalition partner, the Independence Party lost 1/3 of their seats. Jóhanna had retained the role of PM, now becoming the first openly gay person to win a general election. The first task for the Jóhanna Administration was fixing the damage caused by the financial crisis. She went to the country through several referendums to gain support but was defeated in the first vote. A repayment plan for the banking debt was proposed with the first payment to be made in 2016 and the final payment made before 2046 at a fixed rate of interest of 3%, this was also rejected with a no vote. The Dutch and British governments then took Iceland to the European Courts. The Alþingi voted 33-30 to indict Haarde for negligence in office. He faced these charges in a court used for the first time since the 1905 constitution was passed. Haarde was convicted on one charge. The Jóhanna Administration with cross party support then set about convening a constitutional assembly to discuss changes to the 1905 constitution. Members of which had to be selected at random through the national registry. 1,200 candidates were selected to be voted on. 25 went on to form the constitutional assembly. In 2010 Jóhanna’s government passed a bill banning strip clubs, paying for nudity and other means of profiteering from employee nudity. The first western democracy to do so. Jóhanna stated “The Nordic countries are leading the way on women’s equality, recognizing women as equal citizens rather than commodities for sale”. This was hailed as making Iceland the most feminist country in the world. Most Icelanders saw, nor felt anything strange about having a lesbian Prime minister. The country had repealed laws against gay sex when it was a Danish dependency island in 1940. In 1996 it became one of the first nations to pass civil unions followed by same sex adoption in 2006. In 2010, a year into Jóhanna’s term Marriage equality was passed with the Prime Minister taking full advantage in converting her civil union from 2006 into a marriage with her partner Jonina Leosdóttir, an Author. Jóhanna decided well in advance of the 2013 election that she would not seek a second term and had planned to retire from politics at the age of 70. She left the Alþingi as the longest serving MP. Just before she retired she made a guest appearance in an episode of the Simpsons. The economy still had its problems however unemployment was down but Icelanders saw a rise in their taxes whilst funding for social programs decreased. As it is with governments, those that inherit the mess tend not to get the credit for cleaning it up and with her retirement known before the election the result did not go in the Social Democrats favor. The polled at 13% gaining nine seats whilst the Independence and Progressive Parties took 19 seats each forming the government. It may be a small country with a population of just over 325,000 (That’s 100,00 less than the city of Bristol) yet it has earned a place in the political and LGBT history books as a nation that elected the world’s first openly gay Prime Minister. I leave you with Jóhanna’s speech to World Pride 2014
