=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Meet The World's Most Expensive Photo, Part II : The Picture Show]
Nov 15, 2011 — Andreas Gursky's Rhein II fetched $4,338,500 at a Christie's auction last week, breaking the record for the most expensive photograph ever sold ...
URL: https://www.npr.org/sections/pictureshow/2011/11/15/142342119/meet-the-worlds-most-expensive-photo-part-ii

[Masterpiece Story: Rhine II by Andreas Gursky]
Aug 31, 2025 — Why did someone pay north of $4mln for it in 2011 for Rhein II by Andreas Gursky, making it the most expensive photograph sold at the time?
URL: https://www.dailyartmagazine.com/andreas-gursky-rhine-ii/

[The unfortunate story of the most expensive photo ever taken]
Untitled #96 (1981) auctioned for $2,882,500 at Christie's Auction House in New York in 2012. Art is subjective. And, at a pricey auction house, ...
URL: https://arlen.substack.com/p/the-unfortunate-story-of-the-expensive

[The World's Most Expensive Photograph]
Nov 22, 2022 — The sale comes sixteen years after Steichen's The Pond - Moonlight became the world's most expensive photograph when it sold at auction for ...
URL: https://rps.org/news/groups/analogue/2022/november/the-world-s-most-expensive-photograph/

[The Most Expensive Photos Ever Sold]
Nov 9, 2011 — This Snapshot Of The Rhine River Just Became The World's Most Expensive Photo · Follow Julie Zeveloff · #16 Robert Mapplethorpe's photo of Andy ...
URL: https://www.businessinsider.com/andreas-gursky-photo-record-most-expensive-2011-11


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Meet The World's Most Expensive Photo, Part II : The Picture Show] ---
Meet The World's Most Expensive Photo, Part II It's a $4 million question: What makes this photo so special? "Does it come with several Ferraris?" offers an arts editor here. Well, that would make more sense, but no, not that we know of. "One can only assume the collector really likes stripes of green and gray," jokes SeattlePI.com. Unfortunately, though, we don't know who bought it. Andreas Gursky's Rhein II fetched $4,338,500 at a Christie's auction last week, breaking the record for the most expensive photograph ever sold at auction. Here's what we do know: The photo comes at the mammoth proportion of about 6-by-11 feet, and that's got to count for something. Plus (sorry all starving photographers), that price tag is nothing unusual for Gursky. Until the purchase of Cindy Sherman's Untitled in May, Gursky's 99 Cent II Diptychon had been the most expensive photo, which sold at Sotheby's for $3.3 million in 2007. He has photos in major museums like the Museum of Modern Art and London's Tate Modern and studied under the renowned Bernd and Hilla Becher in Germany. And maybe his very German-ness contributes to the price, too. The Rhine is "one of the most symbolic motifs in German art," says Francis Outred, head of Europe in post-war and contemporary art at Christie's. It runs through Gursky's hometown of Dusseldorf, as well as six European countries, and has inspired art for centuries. But Outred contends that this photo is exceptional: "One of the most powerful and profound depictions ever to be created of the Rhine, the photo's unique scale draws an ineffable link to the actual natural landscape, inviting the viewer to cross over into its vivid picture plane." Then there's the technique: Gursky is famous for his large-scale productions, for his exacting printing methods and for pioneering a unique combination of film and digital processes. That said, $4.3 million is still an unthinkable sum. "We're living in a world of funny money," said David Ross, former director of the Whitney Museum of American Art, when we spoke about Cindy Sherman's photo. Funny money is right. Just think about how far that $4.3 million would go if spent elsewhere ... and yet that's kind of a hackneyed hypothetical. Who would really argue against support and proliferation of the arts? Certainly not Gursky. What do you think?


--- [Masterpiece Story: Rhine II by Andreas Gursky] ---
Masterpiece Story: The Setting of the Sun by François Boucher With sweet putti, handsome gods, beautiful nymphs, vibrant colors, and elaborate compositions, The Setting of the Sun is a testimony to François... James W Singer 8 February 2026 It seems to be one of those pictures you may accidentally take on holiday when the weather is bad. Rhine II by Andreas Gursky is not a photo we instantly feel an affinity to. It feels bland, boring, and even depressing when you first see it. And you may ask yourself what the fuss is about. Why did someone decide to pay $4 million for it in 2011, making it the most expensive photograph sold at the time? Take another look at it with us and see if your perception changes. Andreas Gursky was born in 1955 in Leipzig, but by 1957 his parents moved to Düsseldorf, and it was here that Gursky attended the Kunstakademie. There, he had the chance to study under Berndt and Hilla Becher, known for their water towers photographs. Their systematic approach to photography, obsessively sticking with one vantage point, and scientific approach had a huge impact on him. By the 1990s, Gursky had created his own style. He kept some of the Bechers’ feel, but also utilized color, and digitally edited his images. His goal is not pure documentation, but the creation or recreation of the ideal which he visualizes in his mind’s eye. He often explores large-scale images and the repetition of a multitude of smaller elements and the patterns they create when the scale is disrupted. The Rhine is one of the largest rivers in Europe. Since the times of the Roman Empire, it has been a “working river” of great significance in transporting goods both inland and to the seaports. The role of the Rhine has not changed; it is still one of the most important transportation routes in Europe. Because of that, almost the entire length of the river is heavily industrialized. The river is not allowed to flow freely but is constantly being optimized for human purposes. The Rhine also has great significance in German culture. It is often described as Vater Rhein, the father river of the land. It features heavily in fairy tales, folklore, and even Wagner’s work. Romantic painters like Caspar David Friedrich and Joseph Anton Koch took inspiration from the meandering river and its history. But the Rhine’s influence did not stop at the end of Romanticism. It is still present in the work of Anselm Kiefer and Gerhard Richter. Gursky lives in Düsseldorf, a city built at the confluence of the rivers Rhine and Düssel, so for him, as for many of his historical predecessors, the Rhine is of almost totemic significance. Let’s start with the purely physical side of things. Rhine II is a plexiglass mounted print, 350 cm x 200 cm (73 in × 143 in) in size. Only six prints have been made, four of which are in museums (the Museum of Modern Art, New York; the Tate Modern, London; Pinakothek der Moderne, Munich; and Glenstone, Potomac), which partially justifies the price. It is part of a series of six photographs of the Rhine, with the remaining ones being smaller prints. The photograph’s composition defies the rules traditionally applied in photography. Having a horizon right in the middle is something amateur photographers are told to avoid at all costs. We then see the strips of grass, the river, and the pathway. The longer we look at the horizontal stripes of color the more abstract they become. Interchanging shades of gray and green, with different textures, they divorce themselves from the representation of the landscape. On the screen, it is hard to imagine the full force of the print but keep in mind its sheer scale. You are met with a photograph that is larger than you in every sense. It is an apparently natural landscape. We see almost no indication of human interference, only the stairs on the left in the background and the pathway. And yet, it all feels artificial; no natural landscape would ever follow lines so straight, it is just not organic. Interestingly, all other signs of human existence, such as runners and industrial buildings in the background, have been edited out of the picture. And yet there is a profound sense of the river being bound and controlled by human activity. Gursky wanted to show us the picture he had in his mind, a Platonic ideal, in his own words: “I wasn’t interested in an unusual, possibly picturesque view of the Rhine, but in the most contemporary possible view of it. Paradoxically, this view of the Rhine cannot be obtained in situ; a fictitious construction was required to provide an accurate image of a modern river.” Andreas Gursky in Andreas Gursky: Fotografien 1994–1998. Tate. On the surface the message is clear: the human relationship with nature, a trope so often explored in Romanticism. And yet it is a twist on the old cliche, where nature is ferocious and humans are small in the face of it. Nature is subdued, and humans control it even if they are not visible. It speaks of the distance that industry created between us and nature, control makes intimacy impossible. This is why the picture feels so cold. The river still ripples in an unruly surface though, reminding us we cannot control everything. The message is really quite simple here, one which was often leveled as an accusation. On the other hand, you may say it is sublimely distilled, down to its very essence. The horizontal lines bring a sense of calm and lack of disturbance. It is a photograph you can meditate on, your eyes slowly following the horizontal lines from left to right, only to change direction and start jumping between the stripes of color from top to bottom and back to top again. It is a picture to get lost in, but also one that is not inviting. The photo challenges us to see if we will look away, if we will take the easier path of finding something more appealing to rest our eyes on. Will we choose to take responsibility for what we’ve done to nature, or will we pretend nothing has happened? Or maybe there is a sense of pride in having been able to subdue a river as powerful as the Rhine? DailyArt Magazine needs your support. Every contribution, however big or small, is very valuable for our future. Thanks to it, we will be able to sustain and grow the Magazine. Thank you for your help!


--- [The unfortunate story of the most expensive photo ever taken] ---
The unfortunate story of the most expensive photo ever taken Spoiler alert: The image itself kinda sucks. Hello history friends! Time for a fun one. This month I want to share with you the strange story of what I am pretty confident is the most expensive photo ever taken. And the worst part is, it isn't even a good image! I'll explain in a moment– and I’ll show you the image itself. But first, let's think about what makes something expensive to begin with... In the "free market" the value of an item is whatever someone else is willing to pay, right? Sometimes the price a person is willing to pay for something can seem quite silly. Especially where art is concerned. For instance, a series of selfies from photographer Cindy Sherman in the the 1970s and 80s has fetched upwards of one million dollar per image at auction. Like this one: Art is subjective. And, at a pricey auction house, value is too. Occasionally very rare photographs come up for auction that weren't originally meant to be art, but become valuable because of their historical nature That's the case for this tintype portrait of Billy the Kid taken circa 1880, auctioned off for $2.2 million in 2014 (below). Perhaps the value of artifacts is easier to understand. Antiques are often valuable, right? And nobody’s creating new photos of Billy the Kid anymore, so there’s a limited number of these items available for purchase. Plus, this is a physical object. Those aren't even the most expensive photograph ever sold at auction! This 1999 photograph (below) by German artist Andreas Gursky, which was auctioned off for $4.3 million. Don't ask me why this image became the most expensive photograph ever auctioned in 2011, because I haven't got an answer. Fine art? To me it just seems… fine. All of the images I’ve shown you so far were made with film. Well, all of them except for that Billy the Kid historical photo which was taken with an old time-y camera that printed images directly on a flat piece of metal. But the most expensive photograph ever taken wasn't made using a traditional photographic process. It was a digital image. So let's talk about valuable digital images… The most expensive digital image ever auctioned was sold earlier this year when a cryptocurrency entrepreneur paid $69.3 million worth of crypto to buy a collage of 5,000 "Everydays" illustrations by a contemporary artist known as Beeple (seen above). When CNBC asked the 32 year old buyer why he spent so much money on a downloadable JPEG, he mumbled something about believing "The first piece of such an important [digital art] movement going forward is going to be quite valuable in the future." So he clearly thinks it was a good investment and the image's value will increase from here. This piece of art itself is not really my style. But it's still much more interesting to look at than the most expensive photograph of all time, which I’ll reveal shortly. And I suppose you could say that it’s not even a photograph in the first place, which is true. Rather, it’s a series of digital illustrations stitched together. And there are lots of pieces of hand-drawn art that are very expensive. So let’s finally get down to it and tell the story I’ve been teasing you with this whole time. The story of the most expensive digital photo ever taken Thus far I’ve been talking about photos that are costly because they were sold for large amounts of money. And that's a bit squishy because bidders can choose to pay more or less at a fine art auction. But there's a much better barometer of cost: the simple question of how expensive was it to produce this photograph in the first place? And that's what we're going to use to measure the most expensive photograph of all time. Imagine you bought a very expensive camera, like a Hasselblad H6D (pictured above), which retails for something like $48,000 before you even buy a lens for it. Then let's imagine that you took exactly one photograph with the camera and proceeded to smash the camera on a concrete sidewalk. Then that one image you took would be, by definition, a very expensive photograph because of how costly it was to make. Assuming you could still rescue the memory card from the camera and actually retrieve the image, that is! That's essentially what happened in the case of the most expensive photograph ever taken. Only on a much, much larger scale… This story begins way back in the year 1946. A decade before NASA was established, a team of US soldiers and scientists in the New Mexico desert fashioned a crude camera mount atop a V-2 rocket and loaded it with enough film to take a photograph every second and a half during the flight. Even though the camera itself was smashed when the rocket landed, the film inside survived. The experiment was a success. Humans had their first proper look at earth from space! Over the next several decades, NASA the Soviet space program competed to capture more and better images from space. After the 1969 moon landing and all the incredible iconic images that resulted from that, it was time to go further abroad into space. In 1973 NASA sent an unmanned spacecraft to capture this close-up image of Venus. By "close up" we mean 3,584 miles away, but it certainly felt close compared to any earth-based telescopic image we had seen before that! A short time later, NASA used their unmanned Mariner spacecraft gave us a close-up view of Mercury (above, right). The Soviets one-upped NASA by actually landing a probe on Venus in 1975, resulting in the first image ever taken from the surface of another planet, 25 million miles away: Pretty cool! Or should we say, pretty hot. Beyond just photographs, the Russian probe also relayed scientific data such as the surface temperature on Venus, a rather warm 485°C (905°F). Their probe ceased to function after about an hour of operation at those sweltering temperatures. All of these unmanned space missions we’ve talked about were expensive. And they all resulted in multiple photographs being sent back to earth. Plus, all that other data too. Fast forward to the 1990s, and the case of the most expensive single photograph of all time NASA had already captured the first photo from the surface of Mars via a probe it sent in the 1970s. That felt great, but in the 1990s, they were feeling the sting of egg on their face. A costly 1993 failure of their Mars Observer spacecraft just 3 days before it was set to begin collecting most of its data left the agency hungry to taste success on the Red Planet again. Between the US and Russia, there had been about a dozen Mars mission failures in the 90s. Yikes! Besides the one bright spot of NASA's 1996 Pathfinder Rover (the first rover to successfully operate on another planet), the 90s were a pretty rough stretch for Mars exploration. Almost like a cursed decade. Enter the Mars Climate Observer. Here's what it looked like in the lab before it was launched into space: This 1999 mission, scientists hoped, would unlock secrets of Mars' atmosphere and produce the best quality photographs that had ever been taken of the Red Planet. This was its two-camera imaging system: The spacecraft––which included both an orbiter module and a detachable surface lander––traveled 214 million miles through space all the way to Mars without any problems. Once it arrived, its mission was expected to last for nearly two years. The rocket launch from Earth had been flawless. The traveling through space part went fine too. About two weeks before it entered Mars’ orbit, the Mars Climate Observer took a single image of Mars using its wide angle camera system: There it is. One very expensive photograph. By the way, I haven’t made the image artificially smaller or anything. That is the actual size. A tiny 200 pixel x 200 pixel square image, weighing in at just 3.3 kilobytes in size for you computer nerds out there. Not a lot of detail, is there? The photograph, I think we can all agree, kind of sucks. On September 23, 1999 the Mars Climate Orbiter entered orbit. The only problem was, it didn't stop. It just kept getting closer to Mars! Closer, and closer, and closer – until it burned up in the planet's atmosphere. Why? An investigation revealed NASA's engineers had been using metric units in their calculations, while their software contractor Lockheed Martin had been using imperial units. Feet and inches vs meters and centimeters. The Mars Climate Orbiter that NASA had worked for years on was toast. The total cost for this mathematical mistake? $327.6 million. You might say the cost was astronomical. (Get it? Sorry!) And all the mission had to show for itself was a Single. Terrible. Photograph. Since that image was so expensive, let’s look at it again. It’s the least we can do. Try to really savor it this time: The worst part of the whole mess? Two NASA engineers had even noticed the math mistake ahead of time but they were unsuccessful at warning their supervisors because they "did not follow the rules about filling out [the proper] form to document their concerns." Cringe. The good news is, NASA picked themselves up, dusted themselves off, improved their internal processes and resolved to do better next time. The spirit of scientific inquiry persevered Earlier this year NASA landed its appropriately named Perseverance Rover on the surface of Mars, where it has launched the first-ever interplanetary drone – a mini helicopter that's taking spectacular imagery of the planet. So far we’ve downloaded tons of scientific data and over 94,000 images beamed back from our latest rover! There you go. That's your story about the most expensive photograph ever taken. And it's also a story about not giving up, even when you suffer a humiliating defeat. If you learned something new from this free forgotten history newsletter, please consider sharing it, or forwarding this email. If you haven't subscribed yet, you can do so using the link below. I also get a happy email alert every time someone hearts one of my posts. Signing off until next month. Your friend in history, Arlen


--- [The World's Most Expensive Photograph] ---
On 9th November, Christie’s auction house hosted a sale of artworks from the private collection of Microsoft co-founder Paul Allen. The auction instantly became legendary for the sheer volume of records broken in the sale; $1.5 billion in sales, the most number of lots to sell for over $100 million, and numerous artist records, all watched by over 4 million steamers worldwide. One particular record that was broken at the sale, and has largely gone unnoticed in mainstream media, is the most expensive photograph ever to sell at auction Stretching back in time to November 2011, Christie’s New York sold a print by fine art photographer Andreas Gursky for $4,338,500. It became the most expensive photograph ever sold at auction and retained that title for eleven years, until this month when the record was smashed by the sale of Edward Steichen’s The Flatiron; a 1905 platinum print showing Manhattan’s famous Flatiron building in 1904. The print was estimated to sell for $2 million-$3 million but exceeded all expectations by selling for $11,840,000 and becoming the world’s most expensive photograph to sell at auction; breaking the previous record by more than $7.5 million. The photograph is a 48.3cm x 37.5cm platinum print covered in gum-bichromate; a method Steichen used to add colour to his pictorial images, giving the lowly-lit moody photo a twilight hue. An approach that the Metropolitan Museum of Art described as ‘the quintessential chromatic study of twilight’, and shows ‘the conscious effort of photographers [such as Steichen and co-exhibitor Alfred Stieglitz,] to assert the artistic potential of their medium’. This artistic significance, coupled with the age of the print, and the provenance (originally owned by Steichen’s grandnephew, then a private collector who later sold it on to Allen), all contribute to the financial value of the print. The sale comes sixteen years after Steichen’s The Pond - Moonlight became the world’s most expensive photograph when it sold at auction for $2,928,000. The lot was the first photograph to sell for over $2 million, and, at the time, was only one of four to have sold for over a million dollars. It was also the only photograph by the artist to make it into the top 40 ‘most expensive photographs sold at auction’. Since the 2016 record, there have been twelve photographs to claim the title of ‘most expensive photograph’ including Steichen’s own The Flatiron. With a top ten made up of contemporary artists, the significance of Steichen’s top spot, coupled with the thoroughly analogue methods of execution, will not be lost on auction experts and future buyers. Read more about Christie's record-breaking auction at their website here. For more analogue photography news, tips and information, visit the RPS’ Analogue microsite, the Analogue Group’s Facebook page or Instagram page.


--- [The Most Expensive Photos Ever Sold] ---
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider subscribers. Become an Insider and start reading now.Have an account? . Last night, art history was made when an anonymous buyer paid a record-breaking $4.34 million for Andreas Gursky's photograph of the Rhine River, called Rhein II. It beat out Cindy Sherman's Untitled #96, which sold for a whopping $3.89 million at a Christie's sale this May. Gursky's print, made in 1999, was expected to sell for between $2.5 million and $3.5 million. It depicts a stunning panorama of Germany's most famous river. The sale price includes the buyer's premium. #16 Robert Mapplethorpe's photo of Andy Warhol (1987) sold for $643,200 in 2006 #15 Eugène Atget's "Joueur d'Orgue" (1898-1899) sold for $686,500 in 2010 #14 Gustave Le Gray's "The Great Wave, Sete" (1857) sold for $838,000 in 1999 #13 Joseph-Philibert Girault de Prangey's "113. Athènes, T[emple] de J[upiter] olympien pris de l'est" (1842) sold for $922,488 in 2003 #12 Peter Lik's photo "One" (2010) sold for $1 million in 2010 #11 Edward Weston's "Nautilus" (1927) sold for for $1,082,500 in 2010 #10 Richard Avedon's photo "Dovima with Elephants" (1955) sold for $1,151,976 in 2010 #9 Richard Prince's untitled photo of a cowboy (1989) sold for $1,248,000 in 2005 #8 Alfred Stieglitz's "Georgia O'Keeffe Nude" (1919) sold for $1,360,000 in 2006 #7 Alfred Stieglitz's "Georgia O'Keeffe (Hands)" (1919) sold for $1,470,000 in 2006 #6 Edward Weston's photo of a nude (1925) sold for $1,609,000 in 2008 #5 Russian President Dmitry Medvedev's photo "Kremlin of Tobolsk" (2009) sold for $1,750,000 in 2010 #4 Edward Steichen's "The Pond-Moonlight" (1904) sold for $2,928,000 in 2006 #3 Andreas Gursky's "99 Cent II Diptychon" (2001) sold for $3,346,456 in 2006 #2 Cindy Sherman's "Untitled #96" (1981) sold for $3,890,500 in 2011 #1 Andreas Gursky's "Rhein II" (1999) sold for $4,338,500 in 2011 Want to know what other records were broken at Christie's last night?
