=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Braun Hi-Fi Wall Unit Stereo System 1965 Dieter Rams Design]
Jan 19, 2026 · The Braun L 450 speakers are the original models for the legendary wall-mounted system. These speakers were specially designed in 1965 to match ...Missing: released | Show results with:released
URL: https://braunaudio.de/en/braun-hifi-wall-unit-wandanlage-stereo-system-60ties/

[Braun Wandanlage: Own a Piece of the Brand's History - Highsnobiety]
Nov 5, 2021 · The Hi-Fi speaker system, which sits on your wall (Wandanlage means wall unit in German) was first released in 1961 and designed by Rams. Earlier this year, the brand tapped Virgil Abloh to...
URL: https://www.highsnobiety.com/p/braun-wandanlage-dieter-rams-auction/

[The Braun Wandanlage x Virgil Abloh :Sound from the past - Saywho]
Mar 17, 2021 · To celebrate Braun’s 100th anniversary, the designer looked into the German manufacturer’s incredible history to dig out an equally incredible object: the Wandanlage (a « wall sound system » in German).
URL: https://saywho.co.uk/say_what/the-braun-wandanlage-x-virgil-abloh-sound-from-the-past-saywhat/

[Braun and Virgil Abloh's Take on the 1965 Wandanlage Audio System is ...]
Apr 29, 2021 · Art, sculpture, design… Braun and Virgil Abloh's reimagining of the 1965 Wandanlage Audio System is all these things.Missing: released | Show results with:released
URL: https://plainmagazine.com/braun-virgil-abloh-1965-wandanlage-audio/

[Dieter Rams' Wandanlage hi-fi audio wall unit is reimagined in ...]
Mar 18, 2021 · Dieter Rams' classic Wandanlage hi-fi audio wall unit has been reimagined by Virgil Abloh. All Images courtesy of Braun. This unique collaboration sees the infusion of Abloh’s personal influences and design language into the classic 1965 Wandanlage hi-fi audio wall unit, originally designed by German industrial designer, Dieter Rams.
URL: https://archinect.com/news/article/150255668/dieter-rams-wandanlage-hi-fi-audio-wall-unit-is-reimagined-in-collaboration-between-virgil-abloh-and-braun


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Braun Hi-Fi Wall Unit Stereo System 1965 Dieter Rams Design] ---
braun wall unit braun wall unit The absolute cult object. The wall-mounted system is one of the most sought-after hi-fi systems from the 60s. The combination of the amplifier part with radio, the reel to reel machine, the matching speakers and the record player on a Vitsoe shelf is a great idea of the designer Dieter Rams. The Braun hi-fi wall unit is an object of desire for enthusiastic Braun collectors. This absolute rarity is rarely offered as a complete system, and when it is, it is in poor condition or halfway to hitting the right color tone repainted and reprinted. Through braunaudio you can buy this wall-mounted stereo system in perfect vintage condition. TS 45 receiver The braun TS 45 Receiver was developed in 1965 by Dieter Rams and has an amplifier section with inputs for tape and a turntable and a radio receiver for several bands. Shortwave, Mediumwave and Longwave are accompanied by a fm stereo section. When connected to an antenna, the quality of the radio reception is great. There is a field intensity display and a stereo indicator lamp, which give the FM section a complete look. The TS 45 is equipped with suspension devices for wall mounting and is technically absolutely identical in construction to the audio 2 compact system also launched in 1965. The TS 45 was sold for 1,245.00 Deutsche Mark. The amplifier power is 2 x 15 watts (sine 2 x 25 watt). TS 45 receiver The braun TS 45 Receiver was developed in 1965 by Dieter Rams and has an amplifier section with inputs for tape and a turntable and a radio receiver for several bands. Shortwave, Mediumwave and Longwave are accompanied by a fm stereo section. When connected to an antenna, the quality of the radio reception is great. There is a field intensity display and a stereo indicator lamp, which give the FM section a complete look. The TS 45 is equipped with suspension devices for wall mounting and is technically absolutely identical in construction to the audio 2 compact system also launched in 1965. The TS 45 was sold for 1,245.00 Deutsche Mark. The amplifier power is 2 x 15 watts (sine 2 x 25 watt). TG 60 reel-to-reel tape recorder The braun TG 60 tape recorder was designed by Dieter Rams in 1965. The technical implementation of the requirements was carried out by the engineer Wolfgang Hasselbach. Equipped with 3 Pabst electric motors, the reel-to-reel machine can be operated easily, quickly and reliably. The TG 60 is specially calibrated for the Braun (BASF) TB 631 tape. The 18 cm reel can play back about 45 minutes of stereo recordings at a speed of 19cm/s. Three separate half-track heads for erasing, recording and playback allow back-tape control of the recording, as it was only common in highly professional studio tape recorders from Revox and Studer at that time. The TG 60 was a perfect match for the TS 45 and the L 450 loudspeakers. The retail price in 1965 was quite a proud 1,995.00 German marks. Maybe that’s why only a total of 500 units were produced. TG 60 reel-to-reel tape recorder The braun TG 60 tape recorder was designed by Dieter Rams in 1965. The technical implementation of the requirements was carried out by the engineer Wolfgang Hasselbach. Equipped with 3 Pabst electric motors, the reel-to-reel machine can be operated easily, quickly and reliably. The TG 60 is specially calibrated for the Braun (BASF) TB 631 tape. The 18 cm reel can play back about 45 minutes of stereo recordings at a speed of 19cm/s. Three separate half-track heads for erasing, recording and playback allow back-tape control of the recording, as it was only common in highly professional studio tape recorders from Revox and Studer at that time. The TG 60 was a perfect match for the TS 45 and the L 450 loudspeakers. The retail price in 1965 was quite a proud 1,995.00 German marks. Maybe that’s why only a total of 500 units were produced. L 450 speaker The Braun L 450 speakers are the original models for the legendary wall-mounted system. These speakers were specially designed in 1965 to match the TS 45 and the Audio 2 compact system. They were made in white, graphite and walnut veneer. They are equipped with a 5,1 inch woofer and a 1,3 inch high range loudspeaker, transition frequency at 2,600 Hz, power rating 20 watt at 4 ohm, the frequency range goes from 35–25000 Hz, size w 18,5 x h 9,8 x d 4,1 inches. These wall speakers were sold at that time per piece for 298,- German Mark. From 1969, the speaker model L 470 replaced the L 450. The L 470 was provided with a dome for the high-frequency range and otherwise the same dimensions and can therefore also be used absolutely suitable in the Braun stereo wall system. L 450 speaker The Braun L 450 speakers are the original models for the legendary wall-mounted system. These speakers were specially designed in 1965 to match the TS 45 and the Audio 2 compact system. They were made in white, graphite and walnut veneer. They are equipped with a 5,1 inch woofer and a 1,3 inch high range loudspeaker, transition frequency at 2,600 Hz, power rating 20 watt at 4 ohm, the frequency range goes from 35–25000 Hz, size w 18,5 x h 9,8 x d 4,1 inches. These wall speakers were sold at that time per piece for 298,- German Mark. From 1969, the speaker model L 470 replaced the L 450. The L 470 was provided with a dome for the high-frequency range and otherwise the same dimensions and can therefore also be used absolutely suitable in the Braun stereo wall system. PCS 5 turntable The original braun turntable model PCS 5 is an impressive piece of craftsmanship. The tonearm has elaborate adjustment options for perfect record playback comfort and was equipped with a tonearm lift for manual operation. A Shure pickup was used in the tone head at the factory, and its needles can still be reordered today. Technical maintenance in a qualified workshop ensures that the PCS 5 turntable will function as it did on the first day, and will continue to do so for decades to come. This record player was sold from 1965 for 658,- German Mark. PCS 5 turntable The original braun turntable model PCS 5 is an impressive piece of craftsmanship. The tonearm has elaborate adjustment options for perfect record playback comfort and was equipped with a tonearm lift for manual operation. A Shure pickup was used in the tone head at the factory, and its needles can still be reordered today. Technical maintenance in a qualified workshop ensures that the PCS 5 turntable will function as it did on the first day, and will continue to do so for decades to come. This record player was sold from 1965 for 658,- German Mark. buy braun wall-unit You can buy a braun wall-unit vintage stereo system through braunaudio.de. Braunaudio vintage means, that the technical functions are restored and that the appearance is the carefully restored original finish. You will receive a detailed documentation of the repair work performed and an original braun audio vintage certification of the respective condition. The wall-unit is available in white and also in the gray color known as graphite. The perfect assembly of the system with the Vitsoe rail system and the shelf drawers shortened to the right dimensions creates exactly the image that makes the wall system attractive. A fully functioning wall system should not be spoiled by visible connecting cables. The elaborate wiring of this stereo wall unit from 1965 requires some modifications. Cable channels are set up on the Vitsoe E‑profiles and the specially made suspension rails for the L450 loudspeakers, the TS 45 control unit and the very heavy TG 60 tape recorder. In this way, the cabling can be made largely invisible. As an alternative to the TG 60 tape recorder, the improved successor models TG 502 or TG 504 are also available for purchase, as are the L 470 loudspeaker models as an alternative to the L 450 loudspeakers. historic development historic development Hi-Fi Wall Units by Braun. Must read. Absolute stunning information about the development process of the wall unit from Braun. Read through this PDF and learn a lot about the historical classification of the iconic wall unit. PDF download with kind permission of Hartmut Jatzke-Wigand, Hamburg. To dive deeper into the history of Braun design, check out also Mr. Jatzke-Wigand’s website design+text.com Written by Hartmut Jatzke-Wigand. Photos by Jo Klatt, J. Michaelis, Siol and Braun AG. PDF download with kind permission of Hartmut Jatzke-Wigand, Hamburg. To dive deeper into the history of Braun design, check out also Mr. Jatzke-Wigand’s website design+text.com This original image shows several shelves under the turntable. The distance of the Vitsoe shelf between the control unit and the record player is of course individually adjustable to personal taste. The wall unit is perfected with an original Dieter Rams desk provided with the sought after clamp lamp model Tecnolumen Rha1-45. Serious requests for complete wall-unit stereo systems are welcome. International shipping and mounting service possible.


--- [Braun Wandanlage: Own a Piece of the Brand's History - Highsnobiety] ---
Here's Your Chance to Own a Piece of Braun History To celebrate Highsnobiety’s historic collaboration with Braun, we’ve teamed up with the iconic German brand to auction off one of its most quintessential products ever: a Dieter Rams-designed Wandanlage. The Hi-Fi speaker system, which sits on your wall (Wandanlage means wall unit in German) was first released in 1961 and designed by Rams. Earlier this year, the brand tapped Virgil Abloh to present his take on the iconic Wandanlage design, turning it into a “functional art” piece. "I jumped at the opportunity to reimagine this iconic braun product and challenge what we have come to expect from design," Abloh said at the time. Braun, who celebrated 100 years of existence recently, is best known for boiling product design to its bare essentials: sleek, minimal, stylish, and functional. Its shavers, sound systems, and radios are renowned the world over, but the Wandanlage is its chef-d’œuvre. The Wandanlage was regarded as the best audio device of its time in the 1960s. Recognized as the original hi-fi wall unit, it combines a control unit, tape recorder, and turntable with flat loudspeakers in a design that has gone on to win numerous awards. The unit that Highsnobiety and Braun are auctioning off together is an original, Rams-designed 1964/65 Wandanlage. Included in the system are the TS 45 Receiver, TG 60 Tape Recorder, PS 1000 Turntable, two L 450 Loudspeakers, Vitsoe wall mounts, and a shelf. The TS 45 Receiver acts as the control unit for the Wandanlage, featuring an amplifier section with inputs for tape, a turntable, and radio receiver for multiple brands. It boasts a field intensity display and a stereo indicator lamp. The Wandanlage’s TG 60 Tape Recorder is specially calibrated to the Braun TB 631 tape. It includes three separate half-track heads for erasing, recording, and playback, as the 18 cm reel can playback roughly 45 minutes of stereo recordings at a speed of 19cm/s. The PS-1000 turntable’s tonearm, which has a lift for manual operation, features intricate adjustment options for record playback. You can still reorder the needles for the PS 1000 to this day. To distribute sound, the Wandanlage harnesses the power of Braun’s L 450 speakers, which were specially designed to match the TS 45 and the Audio 2 compact system. They are equipped with a 5.1-inch woofer and a 1.3-inch high-range loudspeaker, transition frequency at 2,600 Hz, and power rating of 20 watt at 4 ohm, as the frequency range goes from 35 to 25000 Hz. The Wandanlage is rarely offered as a complete, working unit, making this auction a chance to own a piece of history. In addition to giving you the chance to buy the Wandanlage, the winning bid will contribute to Stiftung Deutsches Design Museum in Frankfurt, Germany. The proceeds will go towards raising awareness for and exposure to design through various programs and activities. Head to eBay to check out the auction listing and place a bid.


--- [The Braun Wandanlage x Virgil Abloh :Sound from the past - Saywho] ---
A legendary brand, Braun is unfortunately more famous for their electric razors than their beautiful heritage – undoubtedly one of the greatest in all industrial history. This heritage didn’t go unnoticed by Virgil Abloh, who worked an architect as well as a design and civil engineer before going into fashion. To celebrate Braun’s 100th anniversary, the designer looked into the German manufacturer’s incredible history to dig out an equally incredible object: the Wandanlage (a « wall sound system » in German). Created in 1965, this high-fidelity sculpture was originally composed of a radio tuner, a tape drive and speakers. The idea of this revival was to keep the original object intact as much as possible, all the while providing it with modern technology that would allow it to last through the next hundred years. Both a sculpture and totem, this already iconic object is sure going to travel from past to future…


--- [Braun and Virgil Abloh's Take on the 1965 Wandanlage Audio System is ...] ---
Falling somewhere between art and audio, Braun’s famous wall-mounted Wandanlage hi-fi audio system has always been something a bit special. However, the design piece has received a new update with help from Louis Vuitton artistic director, Virgil Abloh, who delved into the Braun archives and set his sights on reimagining the 1965 piece for a modern world. Straying from Dieter Rams’ principle of ‘as little design as possible’, the stereo system has been covered in chrome plating and given other aesthetic affectations that add to the already sleek profile. Nearly 60 years on from its launch, the Wandanlage audio system is rightly lauded as an iconic model, with the Abloh and Braun partnership designed to further close the gap between form and function to create what the brand call, ‘functional art’. That being the case, the audio quality was as important as Abloh’s aesthetic updates, winning over audiophile purists and a broader design audience at large with the sound quality. Read more on the collaboration. Images © Braun / copyright holders


--- [Dieter Rams' Wandanlage hi-fi audio wall unit is reimagined in ...] ---
In celebration of its 100th anniversary, German consumer products company, Braun, has teamed up with Chief Creative Officer and founder of Off-White and artistic director of Louis Vuitton Menswear, Virgil Abloh, to reimagine one of the brand’s most iconic products. This unique collaboration sees the infusion of Abloh’s personal influences and design language into the classic 1965 Wandanlage hi-fi audio wall unit, originally designed by German industrial designer, Dieter Rams. Transformed into a piece of “functional art”, the Wandanlage has been transported into 2021 with an updated polished chrome finish. This new, lustrous coating reflects the parallel between Braun’s polished chrome design aesthetic and the style of Abloh’s cultural and music references of the past 100 years. While the piece takes on a refreshed, contemporary appearance, Abloh and Braun wanted to ensure that the original technology, which includes a radio, reel-to-reel, and turntable are preserved. Therefore, the updated Wandanlage hi-fi audio wall unit operates the same today as it did in 1965, celebrating the design for its timeless endurance. “I have always had a deep appreciation for Braun design,” says Abloh. For the brand’s 100 years, I jumped at the opportunity to reimagine this iconic Braun product and challenge what we have come to expect from design. The “functional art” piece co-curated with Braun Design not only highlights the original function of the hi-fi wall unit that was the best audio of its time, but also the quality and durable materials that are built to last. As a creator, I continue to question how art is perceived in today’s culture. “Functional art” is a lasting legacy of the enduring power of good design that is simple, useful and built to last. In so doing, it advances the frames of design references beyond design ‘purists’ to broader audiences.” In addition to the modified Wandanlage, Abloh has also remixed a Braun-exclusive mixtape in collaboration with The Chopstars titled “Internationalism”, giving this intersection of Braun and Virgil Abloh further expression and life. Braun has also released a short film of Abloh explaining his inspiration behind the project at the iconic Mies van der Rohe-designed Farnsworth House. So, he only chromed some bits and dropped a mixtape? Guess it was already ready for 2021 back in 1965... Are you sure you want to block this user and hide all related comments throughout the site?
