=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Noel Fielding & Dave Brown Honorary awardees, 6 ... - YouTube]
Noel Fielding & Dave Brown Honorary awardees, 6 September 2011 Bucks New Uni. 42K views · 14 years ago ...more ...
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qGYcUP8x3bo

[Noel Fielding | JH Movie Collection Wiki | Fandom]
On 6 September 2011, Fielding received an honorary master's degree from Buckinghamshire New Universityfor his ongoing interest in the graphics area and support ...
URL: https://jhmoviecollection.fandom.com/wiki/Noel_Fielding

[Noel Fielding – The Artist - Polychrome Interest]
On 6 September 2011, Noel received Honorary Masters Degrees from Buckinghamshire New University for his ongoing interest in the graphics area ...
URL: https://bokunosekai.wordpress.com/2013/04/04/noel-fielding-the-artist/

[Noel Fielding — things you didn't know about the Great British Bake ...]
And in 2011, Noel received an honorary master's degree from Buckinghamshire New University for his ongoing interest in the graphics area and ...
URL: https://www.yahoo.com/entertainment/noel-fielding-things-didnt-know-134329294.html

[Book Noel Fielding | Speaker Agent]
... received an honorary master's degree from Buckinghamshire New University. Noel Fielding can be booked for celebrity appearances performing comedy shows and ...
URL: https://champions-speakers.co.uk/speaker-agent/noel-fielding


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Noel Fielding & Dave Brown Honorary awardees, 6 ... - YouTube] ---
About Press Copyright Contact us Creators Advertise Developers Impressum Cancel Memberships Terms Privacy Policy & Safety How YouTube works Test new features © 2026 Google LLC


--- [Noel Fielding | JH Movie Collection Wiki | Fandom] ---
No content


--- [Noel Fielding – The Artist - Polychrome Interest] ---
As you all know, since late 2012 I have found new celebrity crush…His name is Noel Fielding. I have introduced him as Comedian…But he actually has more talent than just being funny. First, let’s see all these photo to explain who he is (or what he does for living) This is Noel Fielding as the Captain in Never Mind The Buzzcocks, the show that makes me realized how funny he is. This is Noel Fielding in The Mighty Boosh as the flamboyant Vince Noir. The Mighty Boosh is his glorious time along with his comedy partner, Julian Barratt. It’s a shame I didn’t know about this amazing comedy show years ago. I found it after NMTB. This is Noel Fielding as a stand up comedian. This is Noel Fielding as a temporary Bassist in Robot in Disguise (a band) And now, I am going to introduce you to Noel Fielding – The Artist. “I had always drawn, every day as long as I had held a pencil, and just assumed everyone else had too…Art had saved me and helped me fit in…Art was always my saving grace…Comedy didn’t come until much later for me. I’ve always tried to combine the two things, art and comedy, and couldn’t make a choice between the two. It was always my ambition to make comedy with an art-school slant, and art that could be funny instead of po-faced.” ~Noel Fielding Noel has a degree in fine art. He went to Croydon Art College and was tutored by Dexter Dalwood. He is inspired by Jean Michel Basquiat and Karel Apels. His visual practice includes drawing, painting, collage and multimedia installation. - The Psychedelic Dream of The Jellyfox held at Gallery Maison Bertaux in early 2008 - Bryan Ferry VS The Jellyfox, also at Gallery Maison Bertaux from 5 July 2010 through to 5 January 2011 Noel is represented by Hooligan Art Dealer. On 6 September 2011, Noel received Honorary Masters Degrees from Buckinghamshire New University for his ongoing interest in the graphics area and support for many art organisations. In October 2011, He released an art book called ‘Scribblings of a Madcap Shambleton‘ … a book I am dying to have. The only way to have this book is buy buying it online. One day, I will have it. Noel produced the book together with his college friend who is also one fifth of The Mighty Boosh, the talented Dave Brown. It features many of his old and new paintings, drawings and photography. Here’s what people said on Goodreads: This book is like falling down the rabbit hole of Noel’s mind and attempting to wander around without a tour guide, or at the very least a Cheshire Cat. The artwork is crazy and imaginative. The stories are outrageous and fantastical. This book is far different than I thought it would be, and that is entirely okay by me! I can’t wait until Noel writes a full on memoir. Christ, this book’s sick. It makes me want to paint shit on the wall and couple it with senseless phrases. He has that faux-naive knack for saying things without sense or context, but they look and sound witty. I use this book when I’m in a rut with uni work (I do graphic arts). Here’s a quote from the book: “I dreamed I was on holiday and a crocodile was in my bathroom wearing my converse trainers. I pushed him into the bath and the water was boiling and the skin came off.” Another book that featured his artwork is The Mighty Book of Boosh. It contains a lot of Boosh related and very funny. I have read about quarter of it in pdf file because I was curious … but I still want to buy the real book. It is so funny in a Boosh way and full of Noel’s sketch. The cover was painted by Noel. Now, I am going to let you see some of Noel’s arts. And Here’s Noel with His arts. To be honest…I don’t know anything about the art of painting. I only like what I like. My favorite by Noel are definitely the cover of The Mighty Book of Boosh and In The Garden. I also like all his sketches for Boosh characters. As I have said, I know nothing about painting…whether Noel’s art is really good art or not…I absolutely have no idea. Some said he is really good but there are also many who said his art is rubbish. I have a student who can draw and I think she draws amazingly. She does doodle, the art that I consider as genius because I don’t know where the crazy mixed up comes from. Her name is Dina (you can check some of her doodle in her instagram, tho there are more photos of hers than her drawings 😉 ) Here’s what she said when I shared Noel’s art to her. Who’s Noel? – found out that that weird and absurd guy my teacher always talks about is actually a genius ARTist. I’m genuinely loving his arts (because as I see he draws surreal things which I do too) and his ideas in almost everything he did/does. He (literally) shows that being weird/absurd/freak is good thing as long you’re still who you are and you love what you’re doing because we’re really free human being! and it gives me another passion and spirit when I draw stuffs which people don’t like or don’t understand or even think that’s not drawing but some ‘garbage’ – so here’s a little messy drawing of Noel Fielding I made 🙂 xx Now, it’s up to you to think what exactly is Noel’s art…is it really art or just rubbish? For me…there’s no such think as rubbish art because artists have their own way of looking at the world. Even the amazing Van Gogh was considered as useless painter back then. I am going to close this appreciation post with Noel talking about his art.


--- [Noel Fielding — things you didn't know about the Great British Bake ...] ---
Noel Fielding — things you didn't know about the Great British Bake Off presenter When you buy through links on our articles, Future and its syndication partners may earn a commission. Noel Fielding is adored by millions as the eccentric host of The Great British Bake Off. Best known for his lashings of guyliner, a wardrobe of wacky knits, and quirky brand of humour, Noel first found fame in comedy troupe The Mighty Boosh. He was also at the centre noughties celeb party scene and went out drinking with the likes of Kate Moss and Courtney Love. Life these days looks very different for Noel. He's gone from a hedonistic raver to a devoted husband and father, presenting one of the most wholesome shows on British TV. He's also a man of many talents, as you're about to learn. Here are a few fascinating facts you may not know about Noel... Noel Fielding was born to teenage parents Noel Fielding was born on 21 May, 1973 in the Westminster area of London. He grew up in Mitcham, in the southwest of the capital. Noel's parents, Ray Fielding and Yvonne Fagan were only 18 when he was born, and split up while he was still young. When he was three, Noel's father remarried and he was largely raised by his grandmother. The star has often described his childhood as being 'feral'. "My parents had lots of parties, they were hopelessly bohemian," he revealed in an interview with The Sunday Times. "They let me stay up. They had their mates there all the time. They just let me eat what I wanted. I didn't have to eat at the table." Noel is still close to his dad, Ray, who he describes as 'very chilled'. But tragically his mum, Yvonne never got to see him become a star after passing away in 1990. His love of cake once got him fired As the caring co-host of The Great British Bake Off 2024, Noel is there to offer the contestants support and is always very happy to have a taste of their finished creations. But his love of sweet treats has got him in trouble before. In a chat with The Guardian back in 2015, Noel revealed his worst ever job was one he had at a cake shop back when he was 14. "I got caught by the boss, lying down eating cake," he laughed. "I was sacked on my first day." Oh dear! He fell into comedy by chance Growing up, Noel was mad about art and had aspirations of becoming the next Picasso. He hated school, but found his calling at Croydon Art College, where he completed an art foundation course. More in Celebrity Stunning Cowboys cheerleader, model flaunts tiny waist as ‘Santa baby’ It was there that Noel's teacher, Dexter Dalwood spotted his comedic potential. From college, Noel went on to study for a BA in Graphic Design and Advertising at Buckinghamshire College of High Education in High Wycombe. He graduated in 1995. Two years later Noel met Julian Barratt when they both appeared on the same comedy bill at a pub in north London. And with that The Mighty Boosh was born. Noel and Julian took their show, which was a mix of stand up and zany sketch comedy, to the Edinburgh Fringe Festival, where it received rave reviews. The Mighty Boosh made him a household name The Mighty Boosh burst onto TV screens back in 2004, and gained a cult following, winning Noel and co-creator Julian a string of awards. Now, two decades on from the show that made him famous, Noel has nothing but happy memories of that time. "I loved doing it because there was a gang of us," Noel told BritClip. "I did some stand-up before, but when Julian and I got together our double act really worked. Double acts are really rare - they're like unicorns, there aren't many of them around." Although a Boosh comeback isn't currently on the cards, Noel admits he has regrets they never made a movie. "That's what we (me and Julian) always wanted to do and then we got sidetracked. We did TV, radio, live stuff and festivals, a band and books. And we never got around to doing a film. I'm hoping one day we will get to do that." He's performed as Kate Bush Who remembers when Noel donned a red dress and wig to dance to Kate Bush's iconic song Wuthering Heights for Let's Dance for Comic Relief back in 2011? Noel's performance was watched by millions, including the lady herself - Kate Bush. "She sent me a letter," Noel revealed to BritClip. "And then eventually we met up, and she put me in one of her music videos (Deeper Understanding). Now I'm slightly friends with Kate Bush which is more than I could have hoped for. She's a genius." He's a successful artist Noel's dreams of becoming an artist have been realised, and he's created a successful sideline with his work. He held his first exhibition of his paintings, entitled Psychedelic Dreams of the Jelly Fox, in December 2007, which was followed by a second (Bryan Ferry vs the Jelly Fox) in 2010-2011. Noel's work has been displayed at renowned venues including the Saatchi Gallery, Museum of Liverpool and the Royal Albert Hall. He's also released a book called Scribbings of a Madcap Shambleton, featuring many of his paintings, drawings and photography. And in 2011, Noel received an honorary master's degree from Buckinghamshire New University for his ongoing interest in the graphics area and support for art organisation. He's added executive producer to his CV Noel remains a big fixture on UK television. He's been Team Captain on BBC comedy panel show Never Mind the Buzzcocks since 2021. And most recently fans have seen him in the Apple TV+ series The Completely Made-up Adventures of Dick Turpin. Not only did Noel take on the lead role in Dick Turpin, which is a satire all about the legendary 18th century highwayman, he also worked as an executive producer on the project. The series was a streaming success and has already been commissioned for a second season. His daughters are named after famous people Noel's long-term partner is Lliana Bird, a DJ, producer and author, who goes by the nickname of Birdy. The couple are said to have been together since 2010. Lliana has appeared in various theatre shows and owns her own production company, Bird & Be. She's also the co-founder of Choose Love, a non-profit organisation that supports refugees. Noel and Lliana are parents to two daughters. Their first, Dali - who was named after the late Spanish artist Salvador Dali, was born in 2018. Two years later, they welcomed a second girl, who they named Iggy in honour of musician Iggy Pop. Noel adores being a dad and says the Bake Off gig suits his new lifestyle. "You want to match your career to where you are in life," he told The Guardian. "It’s mainstream, family-friendly and my kids love it, so it suits me. I love not partying – and I never thought I’d say that.” He's never learnt to drive Yes, that's right, Noel does not own a driving license. He did, however, get a crash course in driving from a certain Mr Paul Hollywood back in 2020. It was during the filming for Bake Off, and Paul showed Noel and then co-host Matt Lucas, a few skills on the go kart style buggies used to transport them between locations. Apparently Matt was quite a natural behind the wheel, but as for Noel. Who knows! Noel Fielding fact file Frequently asked questions about the comedian and presenter... How old is Noel Fielding? Noel Fielding is 51, he was born on 21 May, 1973. Is Noel Fielding married? Noel Fielding has been in a relationship with DJ Lliana Bird since 2010. Does Noel Fielding have any children? Noel Fielding has two daughters, Dali and Iggy. Where was Noel Fielding born? Noel Fielding was born in Westminster, London. How tall is Noel Fielding? Noel Fielding is five foot eleven. Instagram: @noel_fielding We work hard to ensure that all information is correct. Facts that change over time, such as age, will be correct, to the best of our knowledge, at the time of the last article update.


--- [Book Noel Fielding | Speaker Agent] ---
Noel Fielding is an award-winning comedian and TV presenter who has hosted shows such as Channel 4’s Great British Bake Off. Available to hire for celebrity appearances Noel will entertain any audience with stories from his career. He can also be booked for comedy shows and as an events host, proving laughter and a memorable occasion. Noel began his comedy career in the 1990s and formed the ‘Mighty Boosh’ alongside fellow comedian Julian Barratt. The pair created three stage shows and they won the Perrier Award for Best Newcomer at the Edinburgh Fringe Festival for their 1998 show ‘The Mighty Boosh’. The success saw ‘the Boosh’ commissioned for radio by the BBC and was eventually on Radio 4. The show was then produced for TV and during its three seasons was nominated for several accolades and won the NME Award for Best TV Show three years running, the Loaded LAFTA for Funniest TV Programme and the RTS Programme Award for Situation Comedy and Comedy Drama. Noel was a regular on Comedy panel shows, including Alan Carr Chatty Man, The Big Fat Quiz of the Year and had a recurring role as Richmond in the IT Crowd. He was also a stand-in captain before becoming a regular team captain on BBC’s Never Mind the Buzzcocks until the show ended in 2015. In 2012 he wrote, directed, and starred in Noel Fielding’s Luxury Comedy which ran on E4. Alongside Serge from Kasabian, he also produced the music for the show under the band name Loose Tapestries. Noel released two albums as part of the Loose Tapestries and appeared in music videos for Mint Royale, Razorlight and Robots in Disguise. His TV work continued and in 2017 he was named as presenter of The Great British Bake Off alongside Sandi Toksvig and then Matt Lucas. Sky also brought Noel back as a team captain on the remake of Never Mind the Buzzcocks in 2021. He is also a highly successful artist. He has had exhibitions shown at Maison Bertaux, the Museum of Liverpool, the Saatchi Gallery, and the Royal Albert Hall. He also published a selection of his work alongside The Mighty Boosh co-star Dave Brown called Scribblings of a Madcap Shambleton and in 2011 received an honorary master’s degree from Buckinghamshire New University. Noel Fielding can be booked for celebrity appearances performing comedy shows and hosting events. A famous face, who will keep the audience’s attention and with unique humour bound to have everyone in attendance laughing, he should be high on the list when selecting a celebrity for your event. Books The Mighty Book Of Boosh - 2021 - Made team captain on the re-make of Never Mind the Buzzcocks - 2017 - Became a co-presenter on the Great British Bake Off - 2012 - Wrote, directed and starred in Noel Fielding's Luxury Comedy - 2011 - Released Scribblings of a Madcap Shambleton - 2011 - Received an honorary degree from Buckinghamshire New University - 2009 - Won the NME for Best TV Show for the third consecutive year - 2009 - Made team captain on Never Mind the Buzzcocks - 2004 - Appeared on The Mighty Boosh TV Show - 1998 - Won the Perrier Best Newcomer Award How to hire Noel Fielding Contact the Champions Speakers Agency to provisionally enquire about hiring Noel Fielding for your next event, today. To get in touch, simply call an official booking agent on 0207 1010 553 or email us at [email protected] for more information. ** We do NOT accept requests for autographs, signed merchandise, fan mail, birthday messages or any other non-commercial contact with the speakers or acts. Each speaker on the website may not have necessarily worked with Champions in the past but are known to perform such engagements within the industry.
