=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Numbertime - Wikipedia]
Numbertime ... Numbertime is a BBC educational numeracy television series for primary schools that was aired on BBC Two from 20 September 1993 to 3 December 2001. For its first four series, it was presented by Lolita Chakrabarti.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Numbertime

[Numbertime (TV) - Broadcast for Schools.co.uk]
Each episode has two visits to Santa Flamingo (first for El Nombre to show Little Juan the shape in different places around the town, and then to draw the shape in the sand) and two sketches, linked by Lolita Chakrabarti with songs and animations.
URL: https://www.broadcastforschools.co.uk/site/Numbertime_(TV)

[BBC Two - Numbertime - Episode guide]
Numeracy series providing children with a basis to work with numbers up to 100. Maths programme for 4-5-year-olds, this series offers an introduction to telling the time.
URL: https://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/b007qn3c/episodes/guide

[Timing of Events | Numbertime Wiki | Fandom]
Timing of Events is the eighth episode of the Number Time fifth series.
URL: https://numbertime.fandom.com/wiki/Timing_of_Events

[Numbertime Facts for Kids]
The eighth series, for five- to seven-year-olds, had ten episodes. It focused on recognizing coins, solving money problems, finding coin equivalents, and making change.
URL: https://kids.kiddle.co/Numbertime


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Numbertime - Wikipedia] ---
Numbertime is a BBC educational numeracy television series for primary schools that was aired on BBC Two from 20 September 1993 to 3 December 2001. For its first four series, it was presented by Lolita Chakrabarti. El Nombre, an animated character used throughout the series, eventually became the concept for his own educational BBC children's television program; his name means "The Name" in Spanish, and not "The Number", which would be "El Número". The third line of his opening song and his farewell catchphrase were also changed several times during the series' run, to reflect their focus - however, the original ones ("Writing numbers in the desert sand" which was also used for the seventh series, and "Adios amigos, and keep counting" which was also used for the fourth, sixth, seventh, eighth and ninth series) remain the most famous.
For the second series, El Nombre's tagline and farewell catchphrase were changed to "Drawing shapes in the desert sand" and "Adios amigos, and keep shaping up" respectively, while for the third series, they were changed to "Righting wrongs in the desert sand" and "Adios amigos, over and out" respectively; however, for the fourth series, his tagline was changed to "Counting numbers in the desert sand" (which was also used for the ninth series), and for the third episode of the fourth series, his farewell catchphrase was changed to "Adios amigos, and fetch some water". For the fifth series, both his tagline and farewell catchphrase were changed to "Telling time in the desert sand" and "Adios amigos, 'till the next time" respectively, while for the sixth series, his tagline was changed to "Using numbers in the desert sand"; finally, for the eighth series, his tagline was changed to "Counting money in the desert sand".


--- [Numbertime (TV) - Broadcast for Schools.co.uk] ---
No content


--- [BBC Two - Numbertime - Episode guide] ---
Introduction for four- and five-year-old children to early mathematical vocabulary skills Side by Side homepage More or Less homepage Maths for four- and five-year-olds, exploring numbers through song, sketches and animation Addition and Subtraction homepage Educational numeracy series for 4-5-year olds, focusing on counting and money usage. Money homepage Numeracy series providing children with a basis to work with numbers up to 100. Up to 100 homepage Maths programme for 4-5-year-olds, this series offers an introduction to telling the time. Time homepage


--- [Timing of Events | Numbertime Wiki | Fandom] ---
No content


--- [Numbertime Facts for Kids] ---
Numbertime facts for kids Quick facts for kids Numbertime | | |---|---| | Genre | Educational sketch show | | Written by | Christopher Lillicrap Andrew Bernhardt (Series 3, 5–7 and 9) Toby Jones (Series 5) Guy Hallifax (Series 8–9) | | Directed by | Andrea Christodoulou (Series 1) Phil Chilvers (Series 2–5 and 7) Robin Carr (Series 6 and 8) Andrea Parr (Series 9) | | Starring | Lolita Chakrabarti (Series 1–4) Ashley Artus (Series 5–7) Anthony Barclay (Series 3–4) Gary Beadle (Series 2) Tony Bluto (Series 1) Carolyn Bonnyman (Series 2) Brian Bowles (voice only, Series 9) Laura Brattan (Series 3–4; voice only, Series 5–9) Joanna Brookes (Series 1, 3 and 4) Otiz Cannelloni (Series 4) Paul Cawley (Series 3–7; voice only, Series 8–9) Ian Connaughton (Series 9) Simon Corris (Series 3–4) Sue Elliott-Nicholls (voice only, Series 8) Chris Emmett (Series 3–4) Michael Fenton-Stevens (Series 8–9) Regina Freedman (Series 1) Victoria Gay (Series 5–7) Roger Griffiths (Series 5–7) Mike Hayley (Series 2–7) Toby Jones (Series 5) Jenny Jules (Series 1) Moir Leslie (voice only, Series 9) Tania Levey (Series 5–6) Andy McEwan (Series 1) Brian Miller (Series 3–7) Anastasia Mulrooney (Series 2–4) Fidel Nanton (Series 5) Richard Pearce (voice only, Series 9) Mo Sesay (Series 1) Elisabeth Sladen (Series 3–4 and 9) Peter Temple (voice only, Series 7) Issy Van Randwyck (Series 3–7) Paul Vates (Series 8) René Zagger (Series 2) El Nombre Sophie Aldred Janet Ellis (Series 6–9) Kate Robbins Steve Steen | | Composer(s) | Neil Ben (Series 5–9) Mark Blackledge (Series 2–9) Archie Brown (Series 9) Charles Casey (Series 9) Stephen Chadwick (Series 8) Seán de Paor (Series 2) Andrew Dodge Richard Durrant (Series 5–8) Sue Herrod (Series 2) Simeon Jones (Series 9) Derek Nash (Series 4–9) Sandy Nuttgens (Series 5–9) | | Country of origin | United Kingdom | | Original language(s) | English | | No. of series | 9 | | No. of episodes | 68 | | Production | | | Executive producer(s) | Judy Whitfield (Series 1) Stacey Adams (Series 2) Anne Brogan (Series 5) Clare Elstow (Series 6–8) Sue Nott (Series 9) | | Producer(s) | Clare Elstow (Series 1) Kristin Mason (Series 2–9) Julie Ardrey (Series 8) | | Running time | 15 minutes | | Release | | | Original network | BBC Two | | Picture format | 4:3 (1993–2000) (2001) | | Original release | 20 September 1993 | – 3 December 2001 Numbertime was a BBC educational TV show. It helped kids in primary schools learn about numbers and math. The show aired on BBC Two from September 20, 1993, to December 3, 2001. For its first four series, the show was presented by Lolita Chakrabarti. A popular animated character, El Nombre, was a big part of the series. He was a Mexican gerbil who acted like Zorro. His name means "The Name" in Spanish. El Nombre even got his own spin-off show later! His famous catchphrases often changed to match what each series was teaching. The most well-known ones were "Writing numbers in the desert sand" and "Adios amigos, and keep counting." Contents Series 1: Numbers 1 to 10 (1993) This first series was for kids aged four to five. It had ten episodes, each focusing on a number from 1 to 10. Lolita Chakrabarti introduced each episode. She would pull the number for the episode from a string and put it into a wall. The show featured funny sketches, often based on nursery rhymes and fairy tales. There were also animations, like the famous El Nombre segments. El Nombre taught his friend Juan how to draw numbers. His mariachi band played The Mexican Hat Dance. Another part of the show encouraged viewers to spot things related to the number of the week. Each episode ended with a song or animation. Lolita would then challenge viewers to find things matching the week's number. This series first aired on Mondays at 9:45 am and was repeated at 2:00 pm. - Episode 1: Number 1 (September 20, 1993) This episode featured Nursery Rhyme Theatre No. 1 - Little Miss Muffet. Little Jack Horner played a game to Find 1 Plum. The episode ended with the song One Finger, One Thumb, Keep Moving. - Episode 2: Number 2 (September 27, 1993) Marvo the Magician showed off his Two Little Dickie Birds. Sammy Sport reported on Jack and Jill's hill-climbing record attempt. Lolita sang The Animals Went in Two by Two. - Episode 3: Number 3 (October 4, 1993) Baa-Baa Black Sheep joined Sammy Sport for a competition. Goldilocks invited viewers to Guess Whose House. The "Three-Sided Triangles" sang We're Triangles (Oh Yes We Are). - Episode 4: Number 4 (October 11, 1993) Farmer Giles presented One Girl and Her Sheep with Little Bo Peep. The Knave of Hearts talked about the Queen of Hearts' tarts. Dancing squares performed the Do the Square Dance. - Episode 5: Number 5 (October 18, 1993) Australian chef Wally Bee cooked five sausages for Barbecue Time. Harry Headline visited the Five Pigs Family. Little Juan celebrated his 5th birthday. Lolita sang Fly, Little Dickey Birds, Round and Round. - Episode 6: Number 6 (November 1, 1993) Fred the gardener tried to pull up his enormous turnip. Mr. and Mrs. Jones had to Take 6 Eggs to balance a seesaw. Lolita sang This Old Man. - Episode 7: Number 7 (November 8, 1993) Sammy Sport covered a fishing contest with the Seven Fat Fishermen. A customer with seven children ordered seven lots of fish and chips. Lolita sang In My Little Garden, Now Promise You Won't Laugh. - Episode 8: Number 8 (November 15, 1993) Sammy Sport interviewed the Old Woman who Lives in a Shoe. The Policeman looked for Wee Willie Winkie on Crime Spot. Lolita visited the Planet of the Eights. - Episode 9: Number 9 (November 22, 1993) Lucky the Cat looked back at her nine lives on This Is My Life. Harry Headline visited Miss Mary, Mary, Quite Contrary's garden. This episode ended with Lolita showing a necklace with nine beads. - Episode 10: Number 10 (November 29, 1993) Farmer Giles showed a new way to mow a meadow. Sammy Sport watched Ten Pin Pete try to become the Ten Pin Champ. Lolita showed ten Russian dolls. The episode ended with Ten in the Bed. - Writer: Christopher Lillicrap - Cast: Tony Bluto, Joanna Brookes, Regina Freedman, Jenny Jules, Andy McEwan, Mo Sesay - El Nombre voices (uncredited): Sophie Aldred, Kate Robbins, Steve Steen - Education Officer: Su Hurrell - Music: Andrew Dodge - Animation: Ealing Animation, Hedley Griffin, Peter Lang, Alan Rogers, Marcus Parker-Rhodes - Film Camera: Nick Squires - Film Sound: Eric Wisby, John Hooper - Film Editor: Nick Hutchings - Vision Mixers: Carol Abbott, Hilary Briegel - Camera Supervisor: Eric Metcalfe - Resource Co-ordinator: Roxanna White - Studio Lighting: Bryn Edwards - Studio Sound: Martin Deane - Costume Design: Colin Lavers - Make-up Design: Jane Walker - Videotape Editor: John O'Connor - Assistant Floor Manager: Sally Bates - Production Manager: Oliver Cookson - Production Assistants: Amarjit Ram, Hilary Hardaker - Design: Bob Steer - Executive Producer: Judy Whitfield - Director: Andrea Christodoulou - Series Producer: Clare Elstow - © BBC Education MCMXCIII In 1994, BBC Enterprises released a video of highlights from this series. It was later re-released in 1997 with the Words and Pictures "Alphabet Fun Time" video. In 1996, the full series was released as a "Video Plus Pack." In 1998, a "revised" version of this series aired. Bill and Bernie, characters from later series, introduced the episodes instead of Lolita. Some original sketches were replaced, and El Nombre's parts were made longer. Series 2: Shapes (1995) This series, also for four- to five-year-olds, had five episodes. It focused on four basic 2D shapes: circles, squares, triangles, and rectangles. Lolita introduced each episode with a mobile showing these shapes. El Nombre had two sketches per episode in this series. In the first, he showed Juan examples of the week's shape around town. In the second, he drew the shape in the desert sand. The series also featured animated characters made from shapes. In the last episode, they worked together to build a house. Each episode ended with Lolita singing a song about the shape. - Episode 11: Circles (April 24, 1995) El Nombre showed Juan what a circle is using wheels and hoops. Terry introduced the "Ring a Ring o' Roses Formation Dance Team." A prehistoric couple tried to invent the round wheel. - Episode 12: Squares (May 1, 1995) El Nombre showed Juan what a square is using frames and blackboards. Bobby Cube asked "Shape Spotters" to identify squares. A square robot built a square dog. - Episode 13: Triangles (May 9, 1995) El Nombre showed Juan what a triangle is using musical triangles and road signs. Aladdin found a lamp with a triangle on it. A triangular knight tried to slay a triangular dragon. - Episode 14: Rectangles (May 15, 1995) El Nombre showed Juan what a rectangle is using planks of wood and books. Sammy Shape visited Old Mother Hubbard's cottage. Humpty Dumpty identified the shape of a brick. - Episode 15: Shapes Together (May 22, 1995) El Nombre helped Juan remember the shapes. The shape characters worked together to build a house. Bobby Cube asked "Shape Spotters" to find "Shy Shapes." - Cast: Gary Beadle, Carolyn Bonnyman, Mike Hayley, Anastasia Mulrooney, René Zagger - Written by: Christopher Lillicrap - El Nombre voices (uncredited): Sophie Aldred, Kate Robbins, Steve Steen - Music: Mark Blackledge, Andrew Dodge, Sue Herrod/Seán de Paor - Animations: Baxter Hobbins Slides Ltd, Ealing Animation, Frameline, Alan Rogers & Peter Lang - Studio Resources Manager: Steve Lowry - Camera Supervisor: John Hoare - Sound: Dave Goodwin - Lighting Director: Geoff Beech - Costume Design: Rosie Cheshire - Make-up Design: Judith Gill-Dougherty - Vision Mixer: Carol Abbott - Assistant Floor Manager: Sally Bates - Graphic Designer: Ellen Monaghan - Set Designer: Eric Walmsley - Videotape Editor: St. John O'Rorke - Executive Producer: Stacey Adams - Studio Director: Phil Chilvers - Production Team: Debby Black, Su Hurrell - Producer: Kristin Mason - © BBC Education MCMXCV This series and the next were released on VHS in 1996 as "Video Plus Packs." Series 3: Side by Side (1996) This third series, for four- to five-year-olds, had five episodes. It focused on prepositions like "under," "over," and "between." Lolita sang the theme song, Under, Over, Everywhere. In this series, Juan gained three new friends: Pedro Gonzales, Juanita Conchita, and Maria Consuela Tequila Chiquita. He also got a pet tarantula named Tanto. One sketch in this series even made fun of EastEnders as "GreenGrocers." This was the first series to credit the El Nombre voice actors. - Episode 16: Up, Down, On, and Off (February 28, 1996) El Nombre helped Juan with Incy Wincy Spider. A bear flew a kite. A window cleaner was annoyed by her colleague. - Episode 17: In Front of, Behind, Before, and After (March 6, 1996) Juan tried to take a photo with Mama. An engine driver had trouble with wagons. Jack and Jill took Farmer Giles's horse to market. - Episode 18: Under, Over, On Top of, and Beneath (March 13, 1996) El Nombre helped Juan score a goal. Princess Perfect wanted a special bed. A tortoise tried to get over a hedge. - Episode 19: Beside, Around, and Between (March 20, 1996) Mama wanted to go to Hurrell's store but there was a hole. A doll pushed building blocks together. Darren and Sharon Jam decided where to put their new table. - Episode 20: In, Out, and Through (March 27, 1996) El Nombre helped Juan find Tanto. A magician turned a volunteer's watch into an alarm clock. Two burglars got stuck in a sweet shop. - Cast: Anthony Barclay, Laura Brattan, Joanna Brookes, Paul Cawley, Simon Corris, Chris Emmett, Mike Hayley, Brian Miller, Anastasia Mulrooney, Issy Van Randwyck, Elisabeth Sladen - Written by: Andrew Bernhardt - El Nombre written by: Christopher Lillicrap - El Nombre voices: Sophie Aldred, Kate Robbins, Steve Steen - Music: Mark Blackledge, Andrew Dodge - Animations: Baxter Hobbins Slides Ltd, Ealing Animation, Malcolm Hartley, Alan Rogers and Peter Lang - Studio Resources Manager: Steve Lowry - Camera Supervisor: Roger Goss - Sound: Dave Goodwin - Lighting Director: Chris Kempton - Vision Mixer: Carol Abbott - Assistant Floor Manager: Jane Litherland - Costume Design: Rosie Cheshire - Make-Up Designer: Judith Gill-Dougherty - Graphic Designer: Ellen Monaghan - Set Designer: Gina Parr - Videotape Editor: St. John O'Rorke - Education Officer: Su Hurrell - Studio Director: Phil Chilvers - Production Team: Debby Black, Jane Straw - Producer: Kristin Mason - © BBC MCMXCV Series 4: More or Less (1996) This series, for five- to six-year-olds, had eight episodes. It focused on "more than" (addition) and "less than" (subtraction). Lolita sang the theme song, More or Less. This series introduced Bill, a green bird who could swallow objects. Later, he was joined by Bernie, a purple cat. They appeared in later series and revised versions of earlier ones. The series also featured Test the toad, who hopped along a number line. Sketches in this series parodied famous TV personalities like Percy Thrower and Sir David Attenborough. - Episode 21: One More (April 17, 1996) A little old woman and her friends pulled up an enormous turnip. Little Juan needed more cymbals. Bill added four flowers. - Episode 22: Two More (April 24, 1996) Freda Fantastic presented The Elves and the Shoemaker. Little Juan and El Nombre juggled tomatoes. Bill added eight wellingtons. - Episode 23: Three More (May 1, 1996) A ladybird's babies were saved from a barbecue fire. Little Juan and his friends needed more chairs for chili. Bill put twelve books on a shelf. - Episode 24: Five More (May 8, 1996) Snow White bought Good Fairy Cakes for the dwarves. Little Juan accidentally burst Juanita's balloon. Bill shook twenty mangoes off a tree. - Episode 25: One Less (May 15, 1996) A magician made red balls disappear. Little Juan and his friends played musical chairs. Bill ate apples off a tree. - Episode 26: Two Less (May 22, 1996) Rebecca Testament reported on Mr. Noah's ark. Little Juan and Tanto looked for melons for Mama's pie. Bill subtracted wellingtons. - Episode 27: Three Less (June 5, 1996) The Early Bird lost his worms. Little Juan had his fifth birthday again. Humpty Dumpty was scared of heights. - Episode 28: Five Less (June 12, 1996) A magician made beads disappear. Little Juan almost floated away with balloons. Bill recycled glass bottles. - Cast: Anthony Barclay, Laura Brattan, Joanna Brookes, Otiz Cannelloni, Paul Cawley, Simon Corris, Chris Emmett, Mike Hayley, Brian Miller, Anastasia Mulrooney, Issy Van Randwyck, Elisabeth Sladen - Written by: Christopher Lillicrap - El Nombre voices: Sophie Aldred, Kate Robbins, Steve Steen - Music: Mark Blackledge, Andrew Dodge, Derek Nash - Animations: Ealing Animation, Arril Johnson, Alan Rogers and Peter Lang - Studio Resources Manager: Steve Lowry - Camera Supervisor: Roger Goss - Sound: Dave Goodwin - Lighting Director: Chris Kempton - Vision Mixer: Carol Abbott - Assistant Floor Manager: Jane Litherland - Costume Design: Rosie Cheshire - Make-Up Designer: Judith Gill-Dougherty - Graphic Designer: Ellen Monaghan - Set Designer: Gina Parr - Videotape Editor: Paul Hagan - Education Officer: Su Hurrell - Studio Director: Phil Chilvers - Production Team: Debby Black, Jane Quinn - Producer: Kristin Mason - © BBC MCMXCVI This series was released on VHS in 1997 and on DVD in 2013. Series 5: Time (1998) The fifth series, for four- to six-year-olds, had ten episodes. It focused on concepts related to time. An animated man with a pocket watch for a head introduced each episode. El Nombre's town was named Santo Flamingo in this series. Juan got a new teacher, Constanza Bonanza. This series also introduced the Dolls' House sketch, featuring characters like Annie the cowgirl, Scrap the scarecrow, Glimmer the robot, and Ticker the clock. They were often visited by Captain Kevin the pirate. - Episode 29: Night and Day (January 13, 1998) Tim woke up in the middle of the night. Little Juan woke up villagers for a fiesta. The Dolls' House residents prepared meals. Bill and Bernie took Polaroids. - Episode 30: Days of the Week (January 20, 1998) Tim set off to referee a football match. Little Juan couldn't remember football practice day. Bill went on holiday, leaving Bernie with cat food. - Episode 31: Sequencing Events (January 27, 1998) Tim tried to put on his new suit in the correct order. El Nombre helped Mama make an omelette. Bill forgot about dinner. - Episode 32: Comparison of Time (February 3, 1998) Tim grew and photographed flowers. Pedro bet Juan he could find a faster spider. Bernie wanted an apple from a tree. - Episode 33: Clock Face (February 10, 1998) El Nombre helped Little Juan with clock face homework. Scrap and Glimmer cleaned Ticker's spring. Bill's clock broke. - Episode 34: O'Clock (February 24, 1998) Little Juan and friends prepared for a school outing. Bernie took a nap, but Bill played a prank. Scrap waited for his new "Scrap Jacket." - Episode 35: Half Past (March 3, 1998) Tim cooked a big pie. Scrap was ill, so Annie asked Glimmer to take his temperature. Bernie enjoyed a "cattuccino" near a clock tower. - Episode 36: Timing of Events (March 10, 1998) Tim tried to get rid of hiccups. San Flamingo School held a three-legged race. Bill and Bernie prepared to launch each other into space. - Episode 37: Months and Seasons (March 17, 1998) Tim received a mysterious parcel. El Nombre helped Juan and Juanita order the four seasons. Bernie put a smile on a snowman's face. - Episode 38: Telling the Time (March 24, 1998) Tim was woken by a train. Ticker was broken. Bill and Bernie tested each other's time knowledge. - Writers: Andrew Bernhardt, Toby Jones, Christopher Lillicrap - Cast: Ashley Artus, Paul Cawley, Victoria Gay, Roger Griffiths, Mike Hayley, Tania Levey, Fidel Nanton, Issy Van Randwyck (Dolls' House), Toby Jones (Tim), Sophie Aldred, Kate Robbins, Steve Steen (El Nombre) - Bill and Bernie (uncredited): Laura Brattan, Paul Cawley - Music: Neil Ben, Mark Blackledge, Andrew Dodge, Richard Durrant, Derek Nash, Sandy Nuttgens - Animations: Ealing Animation, Alan Rogers & Peter Lang, Ian Sachs - Studio Resources Manager: Steve Lowry - Sound: Dave Goodwin - Lighting: Alan Jeffery - Assistant Floor Manager: Alice Oldfield - Costume Design: Rosie Cheshire - Make-Up Design: Judith Gill-Dougherty - Graphic Designer: Anne Smith - Set Designer: Gina Parr - Editor: St. John O'Rorke - Education Officer: Su Hurrell - Production Team: Helen Chase, Karen Keith, Debby Black - Studio Director: Phil Chilvers - Executive Producer: Anne Brogan - Producer: Kristin Mason - © BBC MCMXCVII This series was released on VHS in 1999. Series 6: Numbers 11 to 20 (1999) The sixth series, for five- to six-year-olds, had five episodes. It focused on the numbers 11, 12, 15, 17, and 20. Bill and Bernie opened each episode, finding the number on their number line. In this series, Santo Flamingo gained new characters: Señor Gelato (an ice-cream seller), Señor Chipito (a carpenter), and Don Fandango (a bandit). Former Blue Peter host Janet Ellis also joined the El Nombre cast. - Episode 39: Number 11 (January 12, 1999) Eleven soldiers marched and made the number eleven. Little Juan and friends prepared for a football match. Scrap received a "Soccerbox" game. - Episode 40: Number 12 (January 19, 1999) Green slugs ate twelve plants. Juan and Pedro bet on who could do more skips. Captain Kevin didn't want Branston to mention the number twelve. - Episode 41: Number 15 (January 26, 1999) Fifteen cars went nowhere. Señor Gelato accidentally drove into a table. Scrap and Glimmer played marbles. - Episode 42: Number 17 (February 2, 1999) This episode focused on the number 17. - Episode 43: Number 20 (February 9, 1999) A spaceship beamed up twenty stars. Don Fandango stole twenty gold coins. Nadia Nokoblokov performed "The Dance of Twenty Turns." - Writers: Andrew Bernhardt, Christopher Lillicrap - Cast: Ashley Artus, Laura Brattan, Paul Cawley, Victoria Gay, Roger Griffiths, Mike Hayley, Tania Levey, Brian Miller - El Nombre cast: Sophie Aldred, Janet Ellis, Kate Robbins, Steve Steen - Music: Neil Ben, Mark Blackledge, Andrew Dodge, Richard Durrant, Derek Nash, Sandy Nuttgens - Animations: Ealing Animation, Alan Rogers and Peter Lang - Studio Resources Manager: Steve Lowry - Camera Supervisor: Roger Goss - Sound Supervisor: Dave Goodwin - Lighting Director: Alan Rixon - Vision Mixer: Hilary Briegel - Floor Manager: Tom Hood - Assistant Floor Manager: Alice Oldfield - Costume Designer: Rosie Cheshire - Make-Up Designer: Judith Gill-Dougherty - Graphic Designer: Tom Brooks - Set Designer: Gina Parr - Videotape Editor: David Austin - Education Officer: Jenny Towers - Executive Producer: Clare Elstow - Studio Director: Robin Carr - Production Team: Debby Black, Liz Holmes - Producer: Kristin Mason - © BBC MCMXCVIII This series and the next were released on VHS in 2000. This series was also released on DVD in 2012 with an audio CD. Series 7: Numbers up to 100 (1999) The seventh series, for five- to six-year-olds, had five episodes. It taught how to add and identify two-figure numbers up to 100. Bill and Bernie now used a number square, joined by Limo the caterpillar. Limo crawled around the square to count numbers. In Santo Flamingo, Maria's sister Pepita Consuela Tequila Chiquita started at San Flamingo School. This was the last series to feature the Dolls' House sketches. - Episode 44: Counting On and Back (November 4, 1999) Bernie stacked plates and needed help counting past 29. Scrap lost his buttons. Señor Gelato needed more cornets. - Episode 45: Missing Numbers (November 11, 1999) Bernie sneezed numbers out of the square. Pepita started at San Flamingo School. Glimmer cooked apple pie. - Episode 46: Counting in Tens (November 18, 1999) Bernie took a nap, and Limo counted her "forty winks." Scrap was tired of licking envelopes. Juan took money to the bank. - Episode 47: Patterns of Ten (November 25, 1999) Bill made sandwiches and iced buns. Scrap and Glimmer made party bags. Señora Fedora opened the Egg Festival. - Episode 48: Patterns of Five (December 2, 1999) Bill bought packs of fish fingers. Glimmer painted a five-dot pattern. San Flamingo School held a jumble sale. - Writers: Andrew Bernhardt, Christopher Lillicrap - Cast: Ashley Artus, Laura Brattan, Paul Cawley, Victoria Gay, Roger Griffiths, Mike Hayley, Brian Miller, Issy Van Randwyck, Peter Temple - El Nombre cast: Sophie Aldred, Janet Ellis, Kate Robbins, Steve Steen - Music: Neil Ben, Mark Blackledge, Andrew Dodge, Richard Durrant, Derek Nash, Sandy Nuttgens - Graphics: Anne Smith - Animations: Ealing Animation, Alan Rogers and Peter Lang - Studio Resource Manager: Steve Lowry - Camera Supervisor: Gerry Tivers - Sound Supervisor: Dave Goodwin - Lighting Director: Dave Gibson - Vision Mixer: Carol Abbott - Floor Manager: Tom Hood - Assistant Floor Managers: Beccy Fawcett, Catharine Hartley - Costume Designer: Rosie Cheshire - Make-Up Designer: Judy Gill-Dougherty - Set Designer: Gina Parr - Editor: David Austin - Education Officer: Jenny Towers - Studio Director: Phil Chilvers - Executive Producer: Clare Elstow - Production Team: Clare Arnopp, Debby Black, Debbie Wright - Producer: Kristin Mason - © BBC MCMXCIX Series 8: Money (2000) The eighth series, for five- to seven-year-olds, had ten episodes. It focused on recognizing coins, solving money problems, finding coin equivalents, and making change. Eight "money-spiders" appeared at the start of each episode. In this series, Santo Flamingo started using pounds and pence. It gained a railway station called El Loco and a pizza delivery boy named Leonardo de Sombrero. The song Numbers All Around was updated to focus on coins. This series also introduced the Screensaver sketch, featuring Screen, customers, and T1L the robot. - Episode 49: Coin Recognition to 10p (October 23, 2000) Juan and his family went to the fair. Bill ran a cake stall. A cricket player wanted to buy glue from Screensaver. - Episode 50: Money Problems to 10p (October 24, 2000) San Flamingo School held a jumble sale. Bill ran a drink stall. A policeman wanted to buy a timepiece from Screensaver. - Episode 51: Coin Equivalents to 10p (October 25, 2000) Little Juan and friends went to Santo Flamingo National Park. Bill ran an "everything" stall. A sailor wanted to buy a cake from Screensaver. - Episode 52: Change from 10p (October 26, 2000) Juan and friends arrived at Santo Flamingo National Park. Bill and Bernie bought snacks from vending machines. An old man wanted a new wheel from Screensaver. - Episode 53: Coin Equivalents to 20p (October 27, 2000) Juan and Juanita saw a giant jellybean machine. Bernie played "Coin Sports." A Russian secret agent wanted to change his appearance at Screensaver. - Episode 54: Change from 20p (October 30, 2000) Mama took Juan back-to-school shopping. Bernie went on elephant and rocket rides. A chef wanted to buy butter and eggs from Screensaver. - Episode 55: Coin Equivalents to 50p (October 31, 2000) Señor Gelato asked Juan and Juanita to get him coins for 50p. Bill and Bernie tried to get out of a car park. A businessman wanted a pet from Screensaver. - Episode 56: Change from 50p (November 1, 2000) Miss Bonanza was getting married. Bill and Bernie had their photograph taken. A rock star wanted new shoes from Screensaver. - Episode 57: Coin Equivalents to £1 (November 2, 2000) Pedro, Juanita, and Maria had a sleepover at Juan's house. Bill and Bernie did their laundry. A cowboy wanted a shirt from Screensaver. - Episode 58: Up to £2 (November 3, 2000) Little Juan performed a concert to raise money. Bill and Bernie wanted to go on a boat trip. A clown wanted to buy a top hat and a rabbit from Screensaver. - Writers: Guy Hallifax, Christopher Lillicrap - Screensaver Cast: Sue Elliott-Nicholls, Michael Fenton-Stevens, Paul Vates - El Nombre Cast: Sophie Aldred, Janet Ellis, Kate Robbins, Steve Steen - Bill & Bernie: Laura Brattan, Paul Cawley - Music: Neil Ben, Mark Blackledge, Stephen Chadwick, Andrew Dodge, Richard Durrant, Derek Nash, Sandy Nuttgens - Graphic Designer: Clive Harris - Animations: Ealing Animation, Marcus Parker-Rhodes, Alan Rogers & Peter Lang - Studio Resources Manager: Geoff Ward - Camera Supervisor: Gerry Tivers - Sound Supervisor: Dave Goodwin - Lighting Director: Mike Le Fevre - Vision Mixer: Diane Enser - Floor Manager: Sara Putt - Assistant Floor Manager: Caroline Broome - Costume Designer: Rosie Cheshire - Make-Up Designer: Judy Gill-Dougherty - Visual Effects: Mike Tucker - Offline Editor: Graeme Briggs - Online Editor: David Ackie - Educational Consultant: Helen Lazenby - Programme Co-ordinator: Pauline Stone - Assistant Producer: Claudia Marciante - Executive Producer: Clare Elstow - Series Producer: Kristin Mason - Producer: Julie Ardrey - © BBC MM This series was released on VHS in 2001. Series 9: Addition and Subtraction (2001) The ninth and final series, for six- to seven-year-olds, had ten episodes. It focused on adding and subtracting numbers, similar to the fourth series. Numbertime News became a regular sketch, with anchorwoman Tara Boomdeay (played by Elisabeth Sladen) and reporter Brad Quiff. This series also introduced Addem the green snake, who explored math concepts with Ann the yellow ant and other ants. - Episode 59: Adding Two Numbers (September 10, 2001) Brad Quiff investigated addition with a climbing team. Bernie challenged Bill to add numbers. Addem discovered a civilization of ants. - Episode 60: Adding Three Numbers (September 17, 2001) Juan and Pedro went shopping. Bernie planted seeds, and Bill helped add them. Ann needed to get ants into houses. - Episode 61: Patterns of Addition (September 24, 2001) Addem helped Ann sort beds. Little Juan faced Don Fandango in a darts championship. Brad Quiff reported on a popular doll. - Episode 62: Two-Step Addition (October 8, 2001) Brad Quiff visited a country fair. El Nombre read Little Juan a bedtime story. Ann prepared meals for the "Accounts Department." - Episode 63: Addition with Partition (October 15, 2001) Ann learned about adding acorns. Brad Quiff reported on a new lolly factory. Bill helped Bernie count her pennies. - Episode 64: Subtracting One from Another (November 5, 2001) Brad Quiff reported on an American football team. Bernie challenged Bill to subtract numbers. Cowboy ants took aphids to a milking shed. - Episode 65: Patterns of Subtraction (November 12, 2001) The Queen Ant held a regatta. Juan and his party got on a plane. Bill washed socks at the launderette. - Episode 66: Addition and Subtraction Difference (November 19, 2001) Brad Quiff reported on a tug-of-war contest. Ann needed candles for the Queen Ant's birthday cake. Juan and his party arrived at a hotel. - Episode 67: Two-Step Subtraction (November 26, 2001) Juan and Pedro went to a fair. Ann filled places in a new building. Bill ran an apple stall. - Episode 68: Plus and Minus (December 3, 2001) A squad of marching ants kept breaking up and coming back together. Juan and his party flew back to Santo Flamingo. Bill and Bernie had tea. - Writers: Andrew Bernhardt, Guy Hallifax, Christopher Lillicrap - Cast (Numbertime News): Ian Connaughton, Elisabeth Sladen - Cast (El Nombre): Sophie Aldred, Janet Ellis, Michael Fenton-Stevens, Kate Robbins, Steve Steen - Cast (Addem and the Ants): Brian Bowles, Moir Leslie, Richard Pearce - Music: Mark Blackledge, Archie Brown, Charles Casey & Simeon Jones, Andrew Dodge, Derek Nash, Sandy Nuttgens & Neil Ben - Graphic Design: Sue Hattam - Animations: Jon Aird, Ealing Animation, Phew!, Alan Rogers & Peter Lang, Ian Sachs - Location Camera: Chris Sutcliffe, Gavin Richards - Location Sound: Tony Cogger - Sound Supervisor: Dave Goodwin - Assistant Floor Manager: Tracy Jane Read - Costume Designer: Rosie Cheshire - Make-Up Designer: Judy Gill-Dougherty - Set Design: Gina Parr - Editor: Jon Bignold - Education Consultant: Barbara Allebone - Programme Co-ordinator: Clare Arnopp - Director: Andrea Parr - Executive Producer: Sue Nott - Producer: Kristin Mason - © BBC MMI This final series was released on VHS in 2002. Radio series Numbertime also had radio versions on BBC School Radio. The first was Radio Numbertime, a ten-part series in 1993, focusing on numbers 1-10. Another radio series, simply called Numbertime, aired from 2000 to 2003. A third radio series with the same name was broadcast in 2014.
