=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Viktor Vasnetsov - Wikipedia]
Viktor Mikhaylovich Vasnetsov (Russian: Ви́ктор Миха́йлович Васнецо́в; 15 May [O.S. 3 May] 1848 - 23 July 1926) was a Russian painter and draughtsman who specialised in mythological and historical subjects.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Viktor_Vasnetsov

[Viktor Mikhaylovich Vasnetsov | Russian Realist Painter, Symbolist ...]
Viktor Mikhaylovich Vasnetsov (born May 3 [May 15, New Style], 1848, Lopyal, Vyatka province, Russia—died July 23, 1926, Moscow, Russia, U.S.S.R.) was a Russian artist, designer, and architect whose monumental works include the facade of the State Tretyakov Gallery in Moscow. He was the older brother of the painter Apollinary Vasnetsov. Born into the family of a priest, Viktor received his ...
URL: https://www.britannica.com/biography/Viktor-Mikhaylovich-Vasnetsov

[Vasnetsov Viktor Mikhailovich | Kramskoy]
May 4, 2018 · Viktor Vasnetsov died in Moscow on July 23, 1926, at the age of 79, leaving behind five children from his marriage to Alexandra Vladimirovna Ryazantseva. The artist was buried at the Lazarev cemetery, after the destruction of which the ashes were transferred to Vvedenskoye cemetery.
URL: https://mkram.ru/en/2018/05/04/vasnetsov-viktor-mikhailovich/

[Viktor Vasnetsov Biography (1848-1926) - Life of a Russian Artist]
Viktor Mikhaylovich Vasnetsov (1848-1926), a Russian artist, was a major Russian Revivalist figure in the art world, and a co-founder of romantic modernism and folklorist art. Although a realist in the first years of painting, Vasnetsov later was intrigued by historical and mythological subjects, reforming the historical genre of the time, to a more decorative style in his later years of ...
URL: https://totallyhistory.com/viktor-vasnetsov/

[Viktor Mikhailovich Vasnetsov (1848-1926) - Find a...]
He is considered the co-founder of Russian folklorist and romantic nationalistic painting (see also neo-romanticism), and a key figure in the Russian revivalist movement. "A true work of art expresses everything about people," Vasnetsov believed. "It conveys the past, the present and perhaps the future." Вечная Память.
URL: https://www.findagrave.com/memorial/57991547/viktor_mikhailovich-vasnetsov


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Viktor Vasnetsov - Wikipedia] ---
Viktor Mikhaylovich Vasnetsov (Russian: Ви́ктор Миха́йлович Васнецо́в; 15 May [O.S. 3 May] 1848 – 23 July 1926) was a Russian painter and draughtsman who specialised in mythological and historical subjects. He is considered a co-founder of Russian folklorist and romantic nationalistic painting, and a key figure in the Russian Revivalist movement.


--- [Viktor Mikhaylovich Vasnetsov | Russian Realist Painter, Symbolist ...] ---
Viktor Mikhaylovich Vasnetsov Viktor Mikhaylovich Vasnetsov (born May 3 [May 15, New Style], 1848, Lopyal, Vyatka province, Russia—died July 23, 1926, Moscow, Russia, U.S.S.R.) was a Russian artist, designer, and architect whose monumental works include the facade of the State Tretyakov Gallery in Moscow. He was the older brother of the painter Apollinary Vasnetsov. Born into the family of a priest, Viktor received his first drawing lessons in the Vyatsky Seminary in the early 1860s. In 1867 he moved to St. Petersburg and enrolled in the Drawing School of the Society for the Encouragement of the Arts, where he was mentored by Ivan Kramskoy of the Peredvizhniki (“Wanderers”) group, which rejected the classicism of the Russian Academy. Vasnetsov later finished his studies at the St. Petersburg Academy of Arts (1868–75). He was awarded the academy’s Grand Silver Medal for his sketch Christ and Pilate Before the People (1870). In 1878 he himself joined the Peredvizhniki. Vasnetsov’s first works were genre paintings typical of the Peredvizhniki. In paintings such as Moving House (1876), News from the Front (1878), and A Game of Preference (1879), he presented with evident affection closely observed domestic scenes and characters from an array of social backgrounds. From the 1880s on, Vasnetsov’s main theme was the world of folk poetry: tales, epics, and legends. He discovered the means to give visual expression to legendary and epic verbal phrases and imagery. Dark forest wilds, fiery sunrises and sunsets, stormy clouds—all these elements of his works helped make the legendary episodes depicted in his paintings seem to be actual events in Russian history. For that reason paintings such as After Prince Igor’s Battle with the Polovtsy (1880), Ivan Tsarevich Riding the Gray Wolf (1889), and Alyonushka (1881) were extremely popular in Russia. They became, in a sense, surrogates for Russian history, and during the Soviet era many were reproduced in schoolbooks and on consumer goods such as calendars, posters, and boxes of chocolates. That one of his most important paintings—Bogatyrs (1898), on which he worked for more than a decade, with countless preparatory studies and sketches—had just this fate is quite characteristic. His careful approach resulted in the transformation of his paintings into pseudohistorical fantasies based on themes of Russian history. - Born: - May 3 [May 15, New Style], 1848, Lopyal, Vyatka province, Russia - Notable Family Members: - brother Apollinary Mikhaylovich Vasnetsov Vasnetsov designed costumes and stage sets for Nikolay Rimsky-Korsakov’s opera Snegurochka (The Snow Maiden) in 1886. He created a monumental panel, Stone Age (1883–85), for Moscow’s State Historical Museum. The church of Abramtsevo was also built according to his sketches, as was the Baba-Yaga Hut (1883; also called the Hut on Chicken Legs). Shortly before the Russian Revolution of 1917, Vasnetsov created sketches of military uniforms for the Russian army, which were then used during Soviet times (such as the well-known budyonovka [initially bogatyrka] cap worn by the Red Army cavalrymen). After the revolution, Vasnetsov continued to paint folkloric themes.


--- [Vasnetsov Viktor Mikhailovich | Kramskoy] ---
На официальном сайте Воронежского областного художественного музея им. И. Н. Крамского используются файлы «cookie» с целью повышения удобства пользования веб-сайтом. Если вы не хотите, чтобы ваши пользовательские данные обрабатывались, вы можете ограничить их использование в настройках браузера Viktor Vasnetsov-Russian painter and architect, master of historical and folklore painting. The artist was born in the Russian village Lopyal Urzhum County Vyatka province in the family of Orthodox priest Mikhail Vasilyevich Vasnetsov. As a ten-year-old boy, Victor entered the Vyatka theological school, where he studied for 4 years, and later transferred to the Vyatka theological Seminary. Viktor Mikhailovich has always been fond of artistic creativity, so he took drawing lessons from the teacher of the gymnasium N. M. Chernysheva. With the blessing of his father, Vasnetsov left the Seminary and went to St. Petersburg, where he entered the Academy of fine arts. Viktor Mikhailovich was a student of Ivan Kramskoy in the Drawing school of the society for encouragement of artists, and then studied at the Academy of fine arts. The author began to be engaged in exhibition activity since 1869, at first participating in expositions of Academy, and then — in exhibitions of Wanderers. In 1893 Vasnetsov became a full member of the Academy of arts. After 1905 he was close to the Union of the Russian people, although he was not a member, participated in the financing and design of monarchical publications, including “Books of Russian sorrow.” In 1915, the artist participated in the creation Of the society for the revival of artistic Russia, along with many other artists of his time. Viktor Vasnetsov died in Moscow on July 23, 1926, at the age of 79, leaving behind five children from his marriage to Alexandra Vladimirovna Ryazantseva. The artist was buried at the Lazarev cemetery, after the destruction of which the ashes were transferred to Vvedenskoye cemetery. In the work of Victor Vasnetsov vividly presented different genres that have become stages of a very interesting evolution: from the life of a fairy tale, from easel painting to the monumental, from the landing of the Wanderers to the prototype of modernist style. At an early stage, Vasnetsov’s works were dominated by everyday subjects, but later, the main direction was epic-historical, and in the late 1890s an increasingly prominent place in the work of the master took a religious theme. In 1914 Vasnetsov’s drawing was used for the stamp of voluntary gathering of victims of the first world war, issued by the Moscow city public administration. In Russia, on the occasion of the 150th anniversary of the artist, in 1998 published hitch of two postage stamps and a coupon, which were depicted paintings VM Vasnetsov “Battle of the Slavs with the nomads”, “self-Portrait”and” Ivan the Prince on a Gray Wolf.”


--- [Viktor Vasnetsov Biography (1848-1926) - Life of a Russian Artist] ---
| Viktor Vasnetsov | | |---|---| | Born | May 15, 1848 Vyatka | | Died | July 23, 1926 (at age 78) Moscow | | Nationality | Russian | | Education | Imperial Academy of Arts | | Movement | Symbolism History painting | | Field | Painting | | Works | View Complete Works | Viktor Mikhaylovich Vasnetsov (1848-1926), a Russian artist, was a major Russian Revivalist figure in the art world, and a co-founder of romantic modernism and folklorist art. Although a realist in the first years of painting, Vasnetsov later was intrigued by historical and mythological subjects, reforming the historical genre of the time, to a more decorative style in his later years of painting and designing. He was central in moving realism towards a more nationalist, and historical style, believing that a true work of art conveys the past, present, and maybe even the future. Background in Art Born in a small village of Vyatka Guberniya, Viktor was the second of six children. Viktor’s father Mikhail, was a village priest, who was also a painter, was interested in astronomy, and natural science. Taking after his father’s painting background, Viktor began painting local landscapes, and the people of his village. At ten years of age, Viktor went to a seminary to study within Vyatka, was employed at a local religious art shop, helped to paint frescoes for the local cathedral, and painted whenever he had a spare moment. In 1867, Vasnetsov was admitted to the then named Imperial Academy of Arts, which was virtually a requirement of artists who were pursuing successful careers in art at that time. During this time of study, in 1870, fourteen students making up what was called the Peredvizhniki of painters who were rebelling against the Academy, finding Academy rules constraining, and the teachers too conservative. In an effort to bring art to the Russian people, the Association of Traveling Art Exhibits was established. Viktor befriended their leader, while also producing many recognized works of art, which were welcomed by some Russian societal circles. In 1876, Viktor joined the movement of the Peredvizhniki’s in Paris. While living in France, his studies focused on classical and contemporary paintings as well as academist and Impressionist styles. He placed several works on exhibit at the Salon, and also became fascinated with subjects centering on fairy-tales. Returning to Moscow in 1877, he began illustrating Russian fairy-tales and bylinas, or oral, epic, narrative poems. In 1874 and for the following fifteen years, Viktor was paid to paint frescoes in Kiev’s St. Vladimir’s Church. His challenging work was thought contrary to both traditional Russian and Western religious values. Critics were labeling them as sacrilegious, yet others viewed his works as a bridge between a two-hundred year separation of Russian societal classes. During this time period, Vasnetsov also designed sets and costumes for The Snow Maiden, Nikolai Rimsky-Korsakov’s opera in Italy. The next two decades proved to be very productive years for Viktor, but many of his later works of art were not received well by the public. In these twenty years, he used his expertise in other media including theatrical design, and Russian Revivalist architecture, designing a mansion of his own in Moscow in 1894, and Tretyakov Gallery in 1904. He also designed a pavilion for the Russians during the World’s Fair of Paris in 1898. From 1906-1911, he designed mosaics for a Warsaw Cathedral and helped to design and build the Cathedral. His designs were coined fairy-tale buildings, yet Vasnetsov was incorporating Russia’s ancient past with archaeological accuracy, adding an atmosphere of mythical legend. In 1912, Viktor received a title of nobility from Czar Nicholas II. Viktor designed a postage stamp in 1914, in order to collect monies, which were donated to the victims during World War I. He also designed a uniform for the military Red Army in 1918, also creating the budenovka, or military hat. Periods of Evolution Vasnetsov showed two distinct periods of evolution in his art. The realistic style of painting local people and landscapes gradually evolved into the nationalist and historical style of design, and architecture, drawing on Russia’s ancient history, adding his fascination of folklore, and romantic modernism. It seems a bit ironic, but Vasnetsov initially avoided historical and mythological subjects. In the early 1870’s, he produced many engravings which depicted contemporary Russian life. Boy With A Bottle of Vodka, in 1872, and Provincial Bookseller in 1870, won Viktor medals at the London World Fair, in 1874. The 1870’s also produced Vanetsov’s genre oil paintings such as Peasant Singers in 1873, and Moving House in 1876. Acrobats was painted while Viktor was living in France in 1877. It reflects his study of the Impressionist style. At this time, his fascination with mythical subjects became prominent, and he began working on the painting Ivan Tsarevich Riding A Grey Wolf, and The Firebird. After returning to Moscow in 1877, some of his most well-known works of art were produced, such as The Magic Carpet (1880), Alionushka (1881), the Knight At The Crossroads, and Prince Igor’s Battlefield, in 1878. Admired in the Future Many of Viktor Vasnetsov’s art received very little appreciation during his lifetime. Critics dismissed his latter art as trying to undermine the realist principle of the time period. Little did they know that future generations would admire, respect, and adore Vasnetsov’s neorussian style, and how he was able to depict Russian history in a mythical, somewhat enchanting way. In 1978, a small planet called 3586 Vasnetsov was named after Viktor, and his brother Apollinary, who was also an artist. Viktor’s creative works can be viewed at The State Tretyakov Gallery in Lavrushinsky Lane. The museum, which is the house that Viktor designed, allows viewers to really appreciate the diversity, and the value of Viktor Mikhaylovich Vasnetsov’s art.


--- [Viktor Mikhailovich Vasnetsov (1848-1926) - Find a...] ---
was a Russian artist who specialized in mythological and historical subjects. He is considered the co-founder of Russian folklorist and romantic nationalistic painting (see also neo-romanticism), and a key figure in the Russian revivalist movement. "A true work of art expresses everything about people," Vasnetsov believed. "It conveys the past, the present and perhaps the future." Вечная Память. was a Russian artist who specialized in mythological and historical subjects. He is considered the co-founder of Russian folklorist and romantic nationalistic painting (see also neo-romanticism), and a key figure in the Russian revivalist movement. "A true work of art expresses everything about people," Vasnetsov believed. "It conveys the past, the present and perhaps the future." Вечная Память. Family Members Sponsored by Ancestry
