=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Vigdís Finnbogadóttir - Wikipedia]
Vigdís Finnbogadóttir (Icelandic: [ˈvɪɣtis ˈfɪnpɔɣaˌtouʰtɪr̥] ⓘ; born 15 April 1930) is an Icelandic politician who was the fourth president of Iceland, serving from 1980 to 1996, the first woman to hold the position and the first in the world to be democratically elected president of a country. [a] Having served for 16 years, she was also the longest-serving elected female head ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vigd%C3%ADs_Finnbogad%C3%B3ttir

[Vigdís Finnbogadóttir: The World's First Female Elected President]
Jul 30, 2020 · This Saturday, August 1st, marks the 40th anniversary of Vigdís Finnbogadottir’s inauguration as president of Iceland in 1980. She was the first woman to be democratically elected president in any nation on June 29, 1980.
URL: https://blogs.loc.gov/law/2020/07/vigds-finnbogadttir-the-worlds-first-female-elected-president/

[Vigdís Finnbogadóttir was Iceland's First Elected Female President]
In 1980, Icelanders elected Vigdís Finnbogadóttir president, making her the world's first democratically elected woman president. She was the republic's fourth president. Although the presidency has limited formal powers, it remains Iceland's highest office and carries significant symbolic importance.
URL: https://www.inspiredbyiceland.com/stories/vigdis-for-president

[6 of the First Women to Become Heads of State | Britannica]
Throughout history, women have often been pushed to the sidelines in politics and kept from power. As of 2016, only 44 of the 196 countries in the world had ever had a woman as head of state. From earning the right to vote in democracies to holding office and becoming national leaders, women have fought their way to the stage in a largely male-domi...
URL: https://www.britannica.com/list/6-of-the-first-women-heads-of-state

[Vigdís Finnbogadóttir: The World's First Democratically Elected Female ...]
Jul 12, 2020 · 1980: The women’s movement in Iceland successfully persuades Vigdís Finnbogadóttir to run in Iceland’s presidential election. Vigdís secures 33.6% of the vote. 1980: On August 1, Vigdís Finnbogadóttir is sworn in as the 4th President of Iceland, becoming the first female president (democratically elected) in not just Iceland but the world.
URL: https://worldhistoryedu.com/vigdis-finnbogadottir-the-worlds-first-democratically-elected-female-president/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Vigdís Finnbogadóttir - Wikipedia] ---
Vigdís Finnbogadóttir (Icelandic: [ˈvɪɣtis ˈfɪnpɔɣaˌtouʰtɪr̥] ; born 15 April 1930) is an Icelandic politician who was the fourth president of Iceland, serving from 1980 to 1996, the first woman to hold the position and the first in the world to be democratically elected president of a country. Having served for 16 years, she was also the longest-serving elected female head of state in history. Vigdís is a UNESCO Goodwill Ambassador and a member of the Club of Madrid.


--- [Vigdís Finnbogadóttir: The World's First Female Elected President] ---
This Saturday, August 1st, marks the 40th anniversary of Vigdís Finnbogadottir’s inauguration as president of Iceland in 1980. She was the first woman to be democratically elected president in any nation on June 29, 1980. She won the simple plurality vote with 33.8% of the votes, ahead of Guðlaugur Thisorvaldsson (32.3%), Albert Guðmundsson (19.8%), and Pétur J. Thorsteinsson (14.1%). Vigdís Finnbogadóttir served for 16 years, until August 1, 1996, making her the longest- serving elected female head of state to date. In 1984, she ran uncontested. In the election of 1988 she won against Sigrún Þorsteinsdóttir with 94.6% of the vote. In 1992, she again ran uncontested. She chose not to run in 1996. Despite her lengthy tenure as president, she is not the longest serving President of Iceland. That record is held by her successor, Olafur Ragnar Grímsson, who was president from 1996 to 2016. To date, Vigdís Finnbogadóttir is the only woman to ever hold the post of President in Iceland. As a little girl she had not dreamed of becoming president, but wanted to become captain of a ship. History of Women’s Suffrage in Iceland Women in Iceland received the right to vote in local elections before the right to vote in national elections. Single women and widows gained the right to vote in local elections in Reykjavik in 1882. Married women achieved the same right in 1908. Women gained the right to vote in national elections in 1915 while Iceland was still part of Denmark, when the Danish King Christian X signed a bill sent to him from the Icelandic Parliament in 1913. In accordance with the law, women had to be at least 40 years of age to vote, while men only had to be 25. Following the enactment of the Danish-Icelandic Union Act of 1918, Iceland adopted its own constitution in 1920 (Stjórnarskrá konungsríkisins Íslands), which provided that all Icelandic men and women of legal age (currently 18) had the right to vote. Icelandic women have a history of high voter participation, with 73 to 91% of women voting in the presidential elections between 1952 and 2016. Women in Political Leadership Following Vigdís Finnbogadóttir’s election as president in 1980, Iceland has elected only two other women to high office, both prime ministers. Sitting Prime Minister Katrin Jakobsdottir (elected in 2017) and the first female Prime Minister Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir (elected in 2009). Sigurðardóttir and her spouse were one of the first couples to wed when same-sex marriages became legal in Iceland in June of 2010. Role of the President in Iceland The power of the Icelandic presidency is regulated in the Icelandic Constitution. The president’s main role is to represent Iceland as head of state, similar to the role of king and queens of constitutional monarchies of other Nordic countries. Although the president is tasked with signing legislation passed by the Icelandic Parliament, bills that are left unsigned still become law but will trigger a secret vote in Parliament, the results of which decide whether the law shall stand or be repealed. (Article 26.) The president also has the power to pardon crimes. (Article 29.) He or she must live in Reykjavik. (Article 12). The president appoints ministers. (Article 15.) In order to nominate a presidential candidate, a person must be sponsored by at least 1,500 but not more than 3,000 voters. (Article 5.) The presidential term is four years starting on August 1, and ending on July 31 four years later. (Article 6.) There is no term limit for presidents in Iceland, which explains the long reigns of Finnbogadóttir (16 years) and Grímsson (20 years). The most recent presidential election was held on June 27, 2020. The incumbent president, Guðni Þ. Jóhannesson, was re-elected with 92% of the vote. He has been president since 2016. Vigdís Finnbogadóttirs Legacy As described above, the role of the president in Iceland is different than that of the president of the United States and more ceremonial. That said, Finnbogadóttir certainly put Iceland on the map when she hosted the Reykjavik Summit where U.S. President Ronald Reagan met with Russian Prime Minister Mikhail Gorbachev in Reykjavik, Iceland, on October 11-12, 1986. Since her presidential career ended, Finnbogadóttir has served as a UNESCO Goodwill Ambassador for world languages. Languages were a big part of Finnbogadottir’s life even before she became president. In one of her previous jobs, she worked as a French teacher. Reportedly, Finnbogadóttir lived by a personal motto: “Never let the women down.” She has also been quoted as proclaiming: “If anything can save the world, women can.” Some have also argued that her presidency contributed to more pro-women and family-friendly legislation. Iceland has topped the World Economic Forum Gender Gap Index for 11 years straight. This year not only marks the 40th anniversary of the start of her Icelandic presidency, she also turned 90 in April. Congratulations, Vigdís! Library of Congress Collection Holdings The Library of Congress Catalog holds several items that relate to Vigdís Finnbogadóttir and her presidency, including a rare collection item that bears Finnbogadóttir’s signature. She signed the Festschrift Yrkja: afmælisrit til Vigdísar Finnbogadóttur in 1994 when she visited the Library of Congress, as part of a visit to the United States. I am sad to say that this event took place well before I joined the library.


--- [Vigdís Finnbogadóttir was Iceland's First Elected Female President] ---
30 Sept • 2025 Vigdís for President: A First for the World Read Time 3 min 30 Sept • 2025 Vigdís for President: A First for the World Read Time 3 min 30 Sept • 2025 Vigdís for President: A First for the World Read Time 3 min In 1980, Icelanders elected Vigdís Finnbogadóttir president, making her the world’s first democratically elected woman president. She was the republic’s fourth president. Although the presidency has limited formal powers, it remains Iceland’s highest office and carries significant symbolic importance. In 1980, Icelanders elected Vigdís Finnbogadóttir president, making her the world’s first democratically elected woman president. She was the republic’s fourth president. Although the presidency has limited formal powers, it remains Iceland’s highest office and carries significant symbolic importance. In 1980, Icelanders elected Vigdís Finnbogadóttir president, making her the world’s first democratically elected woman president. She was the republic’s fourth president. Although the presidency has limited formal powers, it remains Iceland’s highest office and carries significant symbolic importance. The timing was no coincidence. Vigdís’s election followed a decade of growing feminist activism, including the 1975 Women’s Day Off. This movement laid the groundwork for the progress in gender equality in Iceland seen today. Though not a central figure in the women’s movement herself, she broke many conventions, as a woman, a divorcée, and a single mother. In 1972, she became the first single woman in Iceland to adopt a child. Some critics questioned whether an unmarried woman should serve as head of state. Vigdís later reflected that this may have worked in her favor, since few men of her generation would have agreed to follow their wife to the presidential residence. The timing was no coincidence. Vigdís’s election followed a decade of growing feminist activism, including the 1975 Women’s Day Off. This movement laid the groundwork for the progress in gender equality in Iceland seen today. Though not a central figure in the women’s movement herself, she broke many conventions, as a woman, a divorcée, and a single mother. In 1972, she became the first single woman in Iceland to adopt a child. Some critics questioned whether an unmarried woman should serve as head of state. Vigdís later reflected that this may have worked in her favor, since few men of her generation would have agreed to follow their wife to the presidential residence. The timing was no coincidence. Vigdís’s election followed a decade of growing feminist activism, including the 1975 Women’s Day Off. This movement laid the groundwork for the progress in gender equality in Iceland seen today. Though not a central figure in the women’s movement herself, she broke many conventions, as a woman, a divorcée, and a single mother. In 1972, she became the first single woman in Iceland to adopt a child. Some critics questioned whether an unmarried woman should serve as head of state. Vigdís later reflected that this may have worked in her favor, since few men of her generation would have agreed to follow their wife to the presidential residence. An unconventional path to the presidency Born in 1930, Vigdís studied French and theater in France, Sweden, Denmark, and Iceland. She worked as a tour guide and French teacher, eventually gaining national recognition through televised French lessons. Before running for president, she served as director of the Reykjavík Theatre Company. When the sitting president announced he would not seek reelection, a group of women urged Vigdís to run, and she received widespread encouragement. During the campaign, she faced skepticism, primarily due to her status as a woman and a single parent; however, her confident presence and sharp responses to inappropriate questions garnered public support. She won the election with 34% of the vote, narrowly beating her closest rival. Vigdís took office on August 1, 1980. Her election made global headlines and inspired women worldwide. Many saw it as a symbolic victory for women’s rights and proof that leadership is not the exclusive domain of men. An unconventional path to the presidency Born in 1930, Vigdís studied French and theater in France, Sweden, Denmark, and Iceland. She worked as a tour guide and French teacher, eventually gaining national recognition through televised French lessons. Before running for president, she served as director of the Reykjavík Theatre Company. When the sitting president announced he would not seek reelection, a group of women urged Vigdís to run, and she received widespread encouragement. During the campaign, she faced skepticism, primarily due to her status as a woman and a single parent; however, her confident presence and sharp responses to inappropriate questions garnered public support. She won the election with 34% of the vote, narrowly beating her closest rival. Vigdís took office on August 1, 1980. Her election made global headlines and inspired women worldwide. Many saw it as a symbolic victory for women’s rights and proof that leadership is not the exclusive domain of men. An unconventional path to the presidency Born in 1930, Vigdís studied French and theater in France, Sweden, Denmark, and Iceland. She worked as a tour guide and French teacher, eventually gaining national recognition through televised French lessons. Before running for president, she served as director of the Reykjavík Theatre Company. When the sitting president announced he would not seek reelection, a group of women urged Vigdís to run, and she received widespread encouragement. During the campaign, she faced skepticism, primarily due to her status as a woman and a single parent; however, her confident presence and sharp responses to inappropriate questions garnered public support. She won the election with 34% of the vote, narrowly beating her closest rival. Vigdís took office on August 1, 1980. Her election made global headlines and inspired women worldwide. Many saw it as a symbolic victory for women’s rights and proof that leadership is not the exclusive domain of men. Four Terms and a Legacy Vigdís served four terms, remaining president until 1996. During her time in office, she emphasized the importance of language, culture, and environmental protection. After stepping down, she continued working internationally on human rights and cultural issues, including through the United Nations. Two men succeeded her as president. But in 2024, Iceland elected its second female president, Halla Tómasdóttir, becoming one of the very few countries to have had multiple women hold the nation’s highest office. In 2023, the Icelandic government and the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe launched the Vigdís Prize for Women‘s Empowerment. The annual prize honours outstanding initiatives to promote the empowerment of women in all their diversity, in Europe and beyond. Four Terms and a Legacy Vigdís served four terms, remaining president until 1996. During her time in office, she emphasized the importance of language, culture, and environmental protection. After stepping down, she continued working internationally on human rights and cultural issues, including through the United Nations. Two men succeeded her as president. But in 2024, Iceland elected its second female president, Halla Tómasdóttir, becoming one of the very few countries to have had multiple women hold the nation’s highest office. In 2023, the Icelandic government and the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe launched the Vigdís Prize for Women‘s Empowerment. The annual prize honours outstanding initiatives to promote the empowerment of women in all their diversity, in Europe and beyond. Four Terms and a Legacy Vigdís served four terms, remaining president until 1996. During her time in office, she emphasized the importance of language, culture, and environmental protection. After stepping down, she continued working internationally on human rights and cultural issues, including through the United Nations. Two men succeeded her as president. But in 2024, Iceland elected its second female president, Halla Tómasdóttir, becoming one of the very few countries to have had multiple women hold the nation’s highest office. In 2023, the Icelandic government and the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe launched the Vigdís Prize for Women‘s Empowerment. The annual prize honours outstanding initiatives to promote the empowerment of women in all their diversity, in Europe and beyond. Vigdís Finnbogadóttir at Þingvellir, 2005. Photographer: Karl R.Lilliendahl A statue of Ingibjörg H. Bjarnason unveiled in front of Alþingi in 2015, marking the 100th anniversary of women's suffrage in Iceland. Vigdís Finnbogadóttir at Þingvellir, 2005. Photographer: Karl R.Lilliendahl


--- [6 of the First Women to Become Heads of State | Britannica] ---
6 of the First Women to Become Heads of State Throughout history, women have often been pushed to the sidelines in politics and kept from power. As of 2016, only 44 of the 196 countries in the world had ever had a woman as head of state. From earning the right to vote in democracies to holding office and becoming national leaders, women have fought their way to the stage in a largely male-dominated global political sphere. Khertek Anchimaa-Toka Khertek Anchimaa-Toka served as head of the parliament of the Tuvan People’s Republic, called the Little Khural, from 1940 until 1944, the first ever elected woman head of state in the world. At the age of 18 or 19, Anchimaa, along with 75 other Tuvan youths, was given the opportunity to study in Moscow, where she became one of only 11 of the original 76 to graduate from the Communist University of the Toilers of the East. It was this opportunity to learn Stalinist ideology and to study politics that earned her multiple leadership positions within the Tuvan People’s Revolutionary Party when she returned to her home. As a public servant during this time, she focused efforts on the betterment and education of women in her country. Once elected chairwoman, Anchimaa led Tuva into World War II in 1941 on the side of the Allied powers, largely assisting the Soviet forces. She acted as head of state in Tuva until the country’s inclusion into the Soviet Union by a vote in 1944, afterward becoming deputy chair of the Tuvan executive committee until 1961. Vigdís Finnbogadóttir Vigdís Finnbogadóttir was elected president of Iceland in 1980 and was quite the record breaker. Finnbogadóttir’s election made her Iceland’s first woman head of state, and the first woman in the world to be elected president of a country. With a term length of exactly 16 years, she also became the longest-serving woman head of state in any country in history. Finnbogadóttir’s rise to power began, unusually, with a stint as director of the Reykjavík Theatre Company. With a bachelor’s degree in French from the University of Iceland and a teaching degree, Finnbogadóttir earned national popularity as the star of her own educational programming for Iceland State Television. She won her first election in 1980 against three male candidates, triumphing with a focus on education and culture. Finnbogadóttir then went on to serve three more terms as president, running unopposed in 1984 and 1992 and winning with a whopping 92 percent of the vote in 1988. As president, Finnbogadóttir highlighted the importance of retaining and celebrating Iceland’s cultural identity and heritage through language and customs. After serving as president, she founded the Council of Women World Leaders in 1996 and received many awards for her humanitarian work and promotion of cultural values. Isabel Perón Isabel Perón served as vice president of Argentina from 1973 to 1974 and then succeeded her husband, Juan Perón, in the position of president after his death. She served as president from 1974 until 1976. She was Argentina’s first woman head of state and the first woman head of state in South America, and she holds the honor of being the first woman president in the world (though she was not elected to the position). Her initial desire to work in show business and dance gave little indication of her future as the leader of her country. But when she met Juan Perón, a famous Argentinian politician, in the mid-1950s, she gave up her career to work alongside him as a secretary, and the decision led to her eventual rise to power. The two married in 1961 and were elected president and vice president of Argentina in 1973. After her husband’s death and her ascent to the presidency, Argentina faced economic instability and political unrest. Perón was encouraged to resign from her position after accusations of corruption in connection to the Argentine Anticommunist Alliance, an illegal organization supposedly led by a close adviser of the Peróns, José López Rega. Perón refused to resign, and so a military coup was staged that left her detained for five years until her eventual exile to Spain. She was charged in 2007 with permitting human rights atrocities carried out by the Argentine Anticommunist Alliance while president, but Spain refused to extradite her for a trial. Corazon Aquino Corazon Aquino served as president of the Philippines from 1986 to 1992, the first woman to hold that office. She was also the first female president in Asia. She is known for her revolutionary role in reinstating democratic rule to the Philippines, leading the country away from the authoritarian regime of Ferdinand Marcos. She was born Maria Corazon Cojuangco. She graduated from Mount St. Vincent College in New York City in 1954 and soon after married the politician Benigno Aquino, Jr., following her husband into his political aspirations. After her husband’s assassination in 1983, Corazon Aquino ran in the 1986 presidential election, taking his place as a leading figure in the opposition to Ferdinand Marcos. Though Marcos was reported to have won, Aquino and her party challenged the election results, and she was named the rightful president by the Philippine military. Immediately upon becoming president, Aquino began work to create a new constitution for the country and restored a bicameral Congress. As president she focused on attempts to stabilize the economy and to enforce civil liberties and human rights. Aquino decided not to seek reelection in 1992, attempting to act as a model for future presidents to allow changes in power and to emphasize the democratic will of the people. Pratibha Patil Pratibha Patil served as president of India from 2007 to 2012, the first woman to become the country’s head of state. She was also the first woman to serve as governor of an Indian state when, in 2004, she was appointed to the position in the state of Rajasthan. Patil became a member of the political sphere in India in 1962, when she was elected to a position in the Maharashtra legislative assembly at the age of 27. Though a longtime public servant, she was very low-profile during her political life, generating little opposition to her campaign for the presidency. Her time as president, however, was marked with controversy. Patil was reported to have spent more money and to have gone on more foreign trips with her family than any Indian president before her, spending about 2.05 billion INR (about $30 million or £24 million). Her attempt to use government funds and to acquire Indian military land to construct a retirement home for herself was also a controversial decision that faced a large amount of opposition. - Related Topics: - head of state - women Ellen Johnson Sirleaf Ellen Johnson Sirleaf, president of Liberia from 2006 to 2018, was the first woman elected head of state in the country and the first woman to become a head of state in Africa. Johnson Sirleaf is known for her role in bolstering Liberia’s economic, political, and social landscapes after years of civil war and for earning a Nobel Peace Prize in 2011 for women’s rights work. She received a bachelor’s degree in economics from the University of Colorado Boulder, a bachelor’s degree in accounting from Madison Business College, and a master’s degree in public administration from Harvard. Johnson Sirleaf served as Liberia’s assistant minister of finance under the presidency of William Tolbert until he was overthrown in 1980 and a civil war was instigated. While exiled in Kenya and the United States during the war, Johnson Sirleaf honed her skills as an economist and worked for the World Bank, Citibank, and other organizations. Returning to Liberia once the Second Liberian Civil War had calmed, she put her education and experience as an economist and politician to use by running for president. When she was elected in 2006, she enacted measures that freed Liberia of all its debts and gained international aid for rebuilding the country. She also instituted a Truth and Reconciliation Committee in order to encourage peace and bridge divides within the country following the civil unrest. In 2018 she was awarded the Ibrahim Prize for Achievement in African Leadership.


--- [Vigdís Finnbogadóttir: The World's First Democratically Elected Female ...] ---
Vigdís Finnbogadóttir: The World’s First Democratically Elected Female President As the fourth president of Iceland, Vigdís Finnbogadóttir’s paid enormous attention to preserving her nation’s identity and marketing this unique identity to the outside world. She helped change the stereotypes people had about Iceland being a very cold and boring place. For her efforts she was appointed the head of many cultural and language organizations, including one from UNESCO. President Vigdís Finnbogadóttir’s legacy lies in the female-friendly and family-oriented policies she adopted, which in turn empowered many Icelandic women, encouraging them to aspire for leadership positions in politics and industry. The article below takes a chronological look at the life of Vigdís Finnbogadóttir, the world’s first democratically-elected female head of state: 1930: Born in Reykjavik on April 15, 1930 to parents – Finnbogi Rútur Þorvaldsson and Sigríður Eiríksdóttir. Her father was a civil engineer while her mother was a nurse. 1949: Passes her matriculation exam. 1949 – 1953: Enrolls first in the University of Grenoble and the Sorbonne (in Paris, France) and later in the University of Copenhagen to study history of theater. 1954: Vigdís gets married 1954 – 1957: Becomes a member of the Reykjavík Theatre Company. 1960 – 1970: Partakes in a number of protests against the presence of U.S. bases in Iceland. 1961 – 1964: Works at the Reykjavík Theatre Company. 1962 – 1967: Tutors French at Menntaskólinn í Reykjavík. 1963: Marriage hits the rock and she divorces her husband. 1967 – 1972: Works as a French tutor at Menntaskólinn við Hamrahlíð. 1972 – 1980: Secures a position as the artistic director of Reykjavík Theatre Company. 1976 – 1980: Serves on the Advisory Committee on Cultural Affairs in the Nordic countries. 1980: Adopts a daughter called Astriour Magnusdottir. 1980: The women’s movement in Iceland successfully persuades Vigdís Finnbogadóttir to run in Iceland’s presidential election. Vigdís secures 33.6% of the vote. 1980: On August 1, Vigdís Finnbogadóttir is sworn in as the 4th President of Iceland, becoming the first female president (democratically elected) in not just Iceland but the world. Icelanders vote and keep fate in Vigdís from 1980 to 1996, when she opted not to run again. She was succeeded by Ólafur Ragnar Grímsson. 1996: Plays a crucial role in the establishment of the Council of Women World Leaders at the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University. 1997 – 2001: President of the UNESCO (United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization) World Commission on the Ethics of Scientific Knowledge and Technology. Other Interesting Facts about Vigdís Finnbogadóttir - Her tenure in term of office – from 1980 to 1996 – makes her the second longest serving president of Iceland. She comes behind Ólafur Ragnar Grímsson, who served from 1996 to 2016. - As president, Vigdís devoted considerable amount of time to environmental issues. She also staunchly stood for the preservation of Iceland’s culture and language. For her efforts in the latter, she was appointed UNESCO Goodwill Ambassador for languages in 1998. - Towards the dying years of the Cold War, Vigdís Finnbogadóttir served as a peace broker between US President Ronald Reagan and USSR leader Mikhail Gorbachev during the 1986 Reykjavik Summit held in Iceland. - Such was her appeal to Icelanders that in the 1984 and 1992 elections, she went unopposed. In 1988, she garnered 94.6% of the votes at the polls. - Ever since she got elected in 1980, Vigdis Finnbogadóttir has been a massive role model for many Icelandic women as well as women across the world. She has inspired countless number of women to take up leadership positions in the respective countries. As at 1980, women accounted for only 5% of the parliamentarians in Iceland. This number drastically changed during Vigdis Finnbogadóttir’s tenure of office. The 21st century has seen Icelandic women average between 25 to 38% in Iceland’s legislative body. - She has been awarded honorary doctorates from over 15 universities across Europe and the United States, including a 1997 honorary doctorate in Civil Law from St. Mary’s University in Halifax, Canada. - Vigdís Finnbogadóttir has been a member of the Foundation Chirac (established by former French president Jacques Chirac) since 2008. The organization promotes peace around the world. - She has been honored by a number of nations across Europe, including receiving the Order of the Legion of Honor in France on April 12, 1982; Norway’s Grand Cross with Collar of the Order of St. Olav in October 1981; and Spain’s Knight Grand Cross with Collar of the Order of Charles III in September 1985. - Vigdís Finnbogadóttir is a member of the Club of Madrid – a group made up of 81 democratically-elected former presidents and leaders from about 57 countries.
