=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[MKA names 7 suspects | The Daily Star]
Oct 9, 2012 · Home Minister Mohiuddin Khan Alamgir yesterday named seven suspects in the brutal murder of journalist couple Sagar Sarowar and Meherun Runi. "The suspects have been identified...
URL: https://www.thedailystar.net/news-detail-253214

[Murder of Sagar Sarowar and Meherun Runi - Wikipedia]
According to official Dhaka police records, there were 23 reported murders in February 2012, including the Sagar-Runi murder case, but media reports revealed that more murders were not reported or recorded.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Murder_of_Sagar_Sarowar_and_Meherun_Runi

[1 3 years of Sagar-Runi murder case: Almost no investigation ...]
Feb 11, 2025 · On 11 February 2012 when Sagar and Runi were murdered, their only child four-and-a-half-year-old Mahir Sarowar Megh was in the same house. He has passed O-Levels now. As the plaintiff, Runi’s brother Nousher Alam had filed a murder case with Sher-e-Bangla Nagar Police Station in the capital.
URL: https://en.prothomalo.com/bangladesh/crime-and-law/a4vc49r58i

[13 Years Without Justice: The Unresolved Sagar-Runi Murder Case]
Aug 20, 2025 · On February 11, 2012, journalist couple Sagar Sarwar and Meherun Runi were brutally murdered in their West Rajabazar home in Dhaka. Thirteen years and six months later, the investigation remains unfinished, and no one has been held accountable, an emblem of Bangladesh’s culture of impunity.
URL: https://bdfeministarchives.org/2025/08/20/13-years-without-justice-the-unresolved-sagar-runi-murder-case/

[CASE: OPEN | The Daily Star]
Mar 5, 2013 · A year later, the investigation remains open, and those in charge of it are no closer to catching the culprits than they were the day they walked into a ransacked bedroom where the lifeless...
URL: https://www.thedailystar.net/news/case-open


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [MKA names 7 suspects | The Daily Star] ---
Sagar-Runi Murder MKA names 7 suspects Tk 10 lakh bounty for lone fugitive Home Minister Mohiuddin Khan Alamgir yesterday named seven suspects in the brutal murder of journalist couple Sagar Sarowar and Meherun Runi. "The suspects have been identified through DNA tests at two special laboratories in the USA," he told a press conference at the secretariat. The seven are Rafiqul Islam, Bakul Miah, Masum Mintu, Sayeed, two security guards of the couple's residence Palash Rudra Paul, and Humayun Kabir alias Enamul and the couple's “family friend” Tanvir, an official of an English medium school in the city. Of them, the first four are now in jail in Dr Nitai murder case, while Palash and Tanvir under Rab custody and Humayun has been on the run. Investigators of the Rapid Action Battalion (Rab) identified the suspects, mentioned Alamgir. “The four were professional killers.” He announced a Tk 10 lakh bounty on absconding Humayun, but did not disclose the motive behind the double murder for the sake of the investigation. The Detective Branch (DB) had picked up Humayun, but freed him later as it did not find his involvement in the crime. The minister also said driver Kamrul of slain physician Nitai was an accomplice of the suspected killers of the journalist couple. Sagar, news editor at the private TV station Maasranga, and his wife Runi, senior reporter at another TV channel ATN Bangla, were killed in the wee hours of February 11 at their rented apartment in the capital's West Rajabazar. Sources in Rab said they had collected the DNA samples of the four suspected killers of Dr Nitai and sent them to the USA to verify if their DNA profiles matched with the ones collected earlier from the crime scene of the Sagar-Runi murder. An assistant professor at the National Institute of Diseases of the Chest and Hospital (NIDCH), Dr Narayan Chandra Dutta Nitai was stabbed to death by unknown assailants at his residence in the hospital compound in the capital's Mohakhali on August 23. Asked whether the killers of the journalist couple had been hired, the home minister said, "We do not exclude the possibility, but we are looking at both the options." He, however, did not elaborate on the other option. Regarding the time frame for completing the investigation, the minister said the probe would end as soon as possible. Earlier on September 25, Alamgir had expressed optimism about identifying the killers of the journalist couple by October 10. Tanvir and Palash were arrested yesterday noon, Lt Col Ziaul Ahsan, director of the Intelligence Wing of the Rab, told this newspaper last night. Tanvir was picked up from the capital's Sher-e-Bangla Nagar. The Rab official said as four of the suspects are now in jail in Dr Nitai murder case, the Rab would file prayers with the court for showing them arrested in the Sagar-Runi murder case. REACTIONS In an immediate reaction to the home minister's disclosure about the Sagar-Runi murder probe, family members of the victims rejected outright the outcome of the investigation. Talking to The Daily Star, Runi's younger brother Nawsher Alam Roman said, "We are not clear about the minister's claims. We don't believe the findings of the probe are true." Asked about Tanvir, who is claimed to be a family friend of the journalist couple, Nawsher said, "We never knew anyone named Tanvir. How could he be a friend of our family? We first came to know about him from the Rab men and later from a few newspaper reports." Nawsher is the plaintiff in the sensational double murder case. Contacted, Iqbal Sobhan Chowdhury, president of a faction of Bangladesh Federal Union of Journalists (BFUJ), said, “No arrests have been reported so far. But now the home ministry has said they have made progress in the investigation through arrest of some people." He mentioned that the journalist community wanted to know the motive behind the killing. "The minister said four of the suspects were professional killers and they were hired for committing the crime. Therefore, we want to know who had hired them and why," He demanded the government send the case to a speedy trial tribunal for its quick disposal. Rejecting the home minister's briefing about the Sagar-Runi murder probe, the BNP yesterday said the government has staged a new drama to hide the real criminals. "The government wants to conceal the real reason and hide the culprits by arresting a few thieves. We have heard that some big fishes are behind the murder and reporting on corruption by some influential persons led to the homicide. But after a long time since the incident occurred, the government has caught a few thieves," senior BNP leader Khandaker Mosharraf Hossain told a rally in the city. Jatiyatabadi Jubo Dal organised the rally protesting the arrest of its President Syed Moazzem Hossain Alal. The Sagar-Runi murder case was first transferred to the DB from the Sher-e-Bangla Nagar Police Station. During the DB's investigation, the detectives had detained Mahfizur Rahman, Enamul Huq, Fazlul Huq, Md Halim and Abu Hanif on suspicion of their involvement in the homicide. But the five were freed later when their DNAs did not match the ones collected from the crime scene. The High Court on April 18 expressed its frustration over the DB's failure in identifying the killers and ordered the transfer of the case to the Rab. On April 26, the elite force exhumed the remains of the journalist couple from Azimpur graveyard and collected viscera for forensic examinations.


--- [Murder of Sagar Sarowar and Meherun Runi - Wikipedia] ---
The murder of Sagar Sarowar and Meherun Runi (also known as the Sagar-Runi murder case) is about the unsolved double murder case of two well-known, married Bangladeshi journalists who were stabbed to death in 2012. The case is still open.
Rumors have been circulating for a long time that the Awami League and India were involved in the BDR murders because they had secret information about them.
Leaked call records recently revealed evidence that the Sagar-Runi murders were carried out by MP Shaon's killer squad, under the direct orders of the then Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina, who is currently ousted and in exile in India.
The couple's murder received high-level political attention and widespread media coverage in Bangladesh, and attracted German interest, as Sarowar had lived in Germany and had worked as a journalist for Deutsche Welle. The case was also closely watched by journalists and international press freedom organisations. The couple's murder also unified organisations representing Bangladeshi journalists that had once been separate.
A representative of the family said, "In the past 25 years, this has been the most talked/written about, prioritized case in Bangladesh." A demonstration was called in 2017 for the fifth anniversary of the murder in order to call for the release of the investigation report.


--- [1 3 years of Sagar-Runi murder case: Almost no investigation ...] ---
1 3 years of Sagar-Runi murder case: Almost no investigation for six years There was almost no investigation into the murder case of journalist couple Sagar Sarowar and Meherun Runi in the previous six years, before it was transferred to the Police Bureau of Investigation (PBI). The investigating agency at the time, Rapid Action Battalion (RAB) only asked for more time to submit its investigation report to the court. In the previous six years, that means from 2012 to 2018, the result of RAB investigation was ‘zero’. Officers involved in the investigation of this case came up with such opinions after analysing the data from past investigation. The investigation agency, PBI is now looking for two suspects identified in the DNA report of this murder. Police recovered the mutilated bodies of Sagar Sarowar, news editor at Maasranga Television and Meherun Runi, senior reporter at ATN Bangla, from their rented flat in West Rajabazar area of the capital early on 11 February 2012. That double murder is clocking 13 years today. What did RAB do Sources related to the investigation stated that RAB was given the responsibility of investigating this case on 18 April 2012. Later, they arrested Runi’s alleged friend Tanvir Rahman, security guard of the house Palash Rudra Pal and security official Enam Ahmed alias Humayun Kabir at different times. Tanvir was arrested following the thread of him speaking to Runi over the phone. DNA samples from some people who were suspected in the murder were also sent to the US laboratory. Later, the reports of these tests were received by RAB. Meanwhile, five people named Mintu, Bakul Mia, Kamrul Hasan alias Arun, Rafikul Islam and Abu Saeed, arrested in a murder and robbery case filed with Banani Police Station were shown arrested in this case as well. Of them, security official Humayun Kabir, and security guard Palash Rudra Pal Mintu and Tanvir are free on bail. RAB had sent the knife, kitchen knife or "boti", the knife’s shaft that were used in the killing, the scarf tied around Sagar’s wrists and the clothes worn by Runi to a laboratory in the US for DNA testing. Parts of the cracked grate from Sagar and Runi’s house, strands of hair found at the scene, socks found next to the cracked grate, door lock, door chain, and the latch were also sent there for DNA testing. DNA samples from some people who were suspected in the murder were also sent to the US laboratory. Later, the reports of these tests were received by the RAB. RAB questioned a total of 160 people from various levels in connection to this murder case, but did not find any decisive clue to identify the killers. After analysing the case documents, officials involved in the investigation said that lastly the date for submitting case investigation report to the court was set on 15 October last year. However, RAB did not submit the report. During the RAB investigation period, the report submission date was postponed as many as 112 times. RAB had sent the knife, kitchen knife or "boti", knife’s shaft that were used in the killing, the scarf tied around Sagar’s wrists and the clothes worn by Runi to a laboratory in the US for DNA testing. Additional superintendent of police Md Anwar Hossain Bhuiyan was the last investigation officer who worked on Sagar-Runi murder case from RAB. He told Prothom Alo that seven other RAB officers had investigated the case before him. Speaking on the issue of the case not being investigated for six years, acting director of RAB’s legal and media wing Major Lutful Hadi told Prothom Alo Monday night that RAB’s investigation was ongoing during the mentioned period (2018-24). Though the mystery of the murder could not be solved in the previous six years, RAB did work on the case. Following the murder of Sagar and Runi, the then home minister Sahara Khatun had promised that the accused would be arrested within 48 hours. The then inspector general of police (IGP) Hasan Mahmud Khandaker had said, “There has been significant progress in the investigation. Hopefully, we would be able to provide positive information on this very soon.” Two years later, Mohiuddin Khan Alamgir took over as the home minister in 2014. He at that time had also announced a specific date for unraveling the mystery of this murder. No clue has been found yet to unravel the mystery of this murder. The taskforce is working on finishing the investigation and submit the report according to the court’s order.Head of the taskforce and PBI chief Md Mostafa Kamal PBI looking for suspects to match DNA On 11 February 2012 when Sagar and Runi were murdered, their only child four-and-a-half-year-old Mahir Sarowar Megh was in the same house. He has passed O-Levels now. As the plaintiff, Runi’s brother Nousher Alam had filed a murder case with Sher-e-Bangla Nagar Police Station in the capital. Members from this police station were investigating the case initially. Four days later, the investigation of this case was handed over to the Detective Branch (DB) of Dhaka Metropolitan Police (DMP). After 62 days of taking over the investigation, the Detective Branch admitted their failure before the High Court on 18 April, 2012. The court then ordered RAB to investigate the case. Finally on 4 November last year, RAB handed over the case documents to PBI on the court’s orders. Additional superintendent of police Md Azizul Haque from PBI has been given the responsibility of investigating the case. Earlier, the home ministry formed a four-member taskforce to investigate the case on 23 August last year. The taskforce was asked to finish investigating the case within six months and submit a report to the High Court. Head of the taskforce, PBI chief Md Mostafa Kamal told Prothom Alo that no clue has been found yet to unravel the mystery of this murder. The taskforce is working on finishing the investigation and submit the report according to the court’s order. The PBI has spoken to me several times. Considering everything, it seems that the government will be able to unravel the mystery. However, I cannot be optimistic until we get the investigation results.Runi’s brother and plaintiff of the case, Nousher Alam Sources reported that the PBI has analysed the case documents and visited the scene after they took over the investigation. They have questioned people related to the investigation. The report sent from the US laboratory stated that Runi suffered a blow from the blade on the right side of her abdomen that came from behind. The DNA of that killer has been found on the T-shirt she was wearing. Meanwhile, Sagar’s hands and legs were tied up with a green scarf which contained the DNA of another person. The PBI is now looking for suspects to match the DNA samples of those two unidentified people. PBI stated that no information has been found about anyone having any personal, familial, property-related or professional enmity with Sagar and Runi. They did not have any dispute with anyone. They never received any threats in their professional lives. While the arrested man named Tanvir was a prior acquaintance of journalist Runi, he is not involved in the murder. Plaintiff in the case and Runi’s brother, Nousher Alam told Prothom Alo, “The PBI has spoken to me several times. Considering everything, it seems that the government will be able to unravel the mystery. However, I cannot be optimistic until we get the investigation results.”


--- [13 Years Without Justice: The Unresolved Sagar-Runi Murder Case] ---
On February 11, 2012, journalist couple Sagar Sarwar and Meherun Runi were brutally murdered in their West Rajabazar home in Dhaka. Thirteen years and six months later, the investigation remains unfinished, and no one has been held accountable, an emblem of Bangladesh’s culture of impunity. Runi’s brother, Nowsher Alam first filed the case at Sher-e-Bangla Nagar Police Station. Within days, it was transferred to the Detective Branch (DB), then the Rapid Action Battalion (RAB), and finally the Police Bureau of Investigation (PBI). Each agency promised progress. Each failed. The DB admitted defeat in April 2012. RAB investigated for six years, producing nothing but time extensions. In November 2024, the PBI formally took charge. DNA samples from clothing, a scarf used to tie Sagar, and other items were sent to a US lab. The results confirmed the presence of two unidentified individuals, yet no suspects have been matched. Eight people have been arrested at different times, some in unrelated cases, but investigators admit no clear evidence links them to the murders. In October 2024, the Home Ministry formed a four-member task force to report to the High Court within six months. The deadline has passed without results. PBI officials acknowledge there is still “no new progress.” “We are completely in the dark. There is someone big behind this. Otherwise, the truth would have come out long ago,” said Sagar’s mother, Saleha Monir. Runi’s brother added that he cannot hope for justice until results are visible. The failure to resolve the Sagar-Runi murder is both a tragedy for their families and a warning for press freedom and the rule of law. Thirteen years on, promises of justice remain unfulfilled, while accountability remains absent.


--- [CASE: OPEN | The Daily Star] ---
Crime CASE: OPEN A year has passed, and the sensational double homicide of journalists Sagar and Runi remains unsolved, but not forgotten Sagar and Runi's son Megh looks at photos of a happier past. Photo: Prabir Das On February 11, 2012, a brutal double murder tore apart a beautiful family and outraged an entire nation. As the victims were public figures who had established their careers in the world of journalism, these murders were highly publicised and the demand for justice came not only from the families of the deceased, but from journalists all over the country. Promises were made by the government and orders were issued to capture the culprits within 48 hours of the killings. The then Home Minister Sahara Khatun, included this case in Home Ministry's Monitoring Cell on sensational cases, giving it top priority. A year later, the investigation remains open, and those in charge of it are no closer to catching the culprits than they were the day they walked into a ransacked bedroom where the lifeless bodies of Sagar Sarwar and Meherun Runi were found by their five-year-old son Megh, who still awaits closure. The year that followed the murders saw much activity and rumours surrounding the case. Officers of the Detective Branch (DB) who were initially in charge of the investigation, arrested and released and re-arrested a security guard who worked in the couple's building. The bodies of the deceased were exhumed after two and half months to be re-examined. DNA was collected from the crime scene and sent to the US for analysis. The current Home Minister MK Alamgir announced that seven suspected killers had been identified through these tests including caretakers of the building and an alleged family friend whom the family itself failed to recognise. The case exchanged hands from the DB to RAB. Possibility that this was the work of hired killers was explored but the law enforcers and Home Minister remained vague about the details and the mystery that shrouded the case thickened with the passing of time. “A lot has happened since the investigation started,” says Nousher Alam Roman, brother of Meherun Runi, “Our family had to go through a lot, as the course of the investigation changed, their bodies had to be exhumed which was painful for us, especially my mother. There also were many ugly rumours about my sister floating around, and that was difficult for us to deal with. The journalist community was very supportive, but after all our trouble and grief, the results were zero. They found nothing.” A loving family ripped apart by a senseless tragedy. Alam believes that efforts made to investigate so far have been inadequate. “There were several flaws in the investigation from what I could see. The police kept telling us that the evidence had been destroyed because the crime scene had been trampled on by many people immediately after the murder, but in my opinion that was probably not the case because RAB has still sealed off their house saying if we go there, the evidence would be ruined, which is confusing and contradictory. If there is still uncovered evidence there after a year, I would say they have not investigated properly. Why did they not try to collect all evidence right after the murder when it was fresh?” As the investigation changed hands, new problems began to arise. “The officers responsible for it are changing and every time there is someone new, they are starting from the beginning--there seems to be no communication with those previously in charge,” says a frustrated Alam. “Every time someone new takes over, we are dragged back into the lengthy interrogation process and are quite frankly, tired of it. They never answer any of our questions regarding their progress with the investigation, which I believe we have a right to ask.” According to Alam, the family never heard from the law enforcement agencies regarding the results of the DNA tests. "We still don't know what came out of it", he says. "They said they identified two people but are not being able to catch them. The security guard at the building was arrested at the start, and was interrogated by the police and RAB, and after all that, he mysteriously disappeared. Then, just two days before their first death anniversary, he resurfaced and was arrested again. All this is very questionable and is making us wonder if it is all staged.” The families of the deceased are not only facing repeated interrogation by the police and RAB, they are also being harassed and threatened which started soon after the news of the killings became public. “A few days after the murder, my mother and I got some calls,” says Alam. “I suppose it happened then because people assumed we were scared and vulnerable, they said they would kill me and my brother because we were 'standing in their way.' They asked us to meet them at a certain place. We reported this to the authorities immediately and they traced the call and arrested a man in Mouli Bazaar from a madrasa there. We knew he wasn't the killer because they wouldn't be that careless. We also got calls from people demanding money or they would kill us the way they did Sagar bhai and Runi apa. I reported each of these calls to the RAB and the DB, but after the first call, I never heard back from them. They just say people are playing pranks on us and trying to take advantage of the situation.” Alam and his family do not believe that this was just a regular robbery-related homicide. “We believe it was done by professionals who were most probably hired by someone powerful and influential. I say this because in the past 25 years, this has been the most talked/written about, prioritised case in Bangladesh and top level officers have been assigned to solve it, and yet, nothing has been done which makes me believe someone powerful is behind it. We have no suspects, but we do know that Sagar bhai was a zealous and dedicated journalist and maybe he came across something someone didn't like, but we cannot be sure.” As the first death anniversary of the brutal double homicide approached, the families of Sagar and Runi decided to make an effort to refresh the memories of what seems to be becoming another cold case file left under a pile of legal paperwork, gathering dust. They organised a photo exhibition where they displayed pictures of the once happy family, smiling into the camera, unaware of their gruesome fate. There were photos of the couple's wedding, drawings by their little son and newspapers bearing reports of their murder, strewn on the floor, all surrounded by the ominous yellow crime scene tape. “The exhibition was a protest on our part about the lack of proper investigation that has left the murders unsolved. We called the exhibition 'Crime Scene, Do Not Cross.' We wanted to send out the message that we have a right to know what goes on behind that yellow tape that says keep out. We have a right to know the course of the investigation and what they have found. We as a family faced a tremendous loss and we are being treated like we have nothing to do with this investigation. We do not know if we will get justice. Some pictures were of the crime scene and were quite graphic, but we wanted people to see what we went through,” explains a grief-stricken Alam. The families of Sagar and Runi, are slowly losing hope of ever finding out the identity of their killers. The promises that were made in the beginning by ex-Home Minister Sahara Khatun were shamelessly denied as a fruitless year passed by. The media world however, has not lost all faith and will continue to keep Sagar and Runi's memories alive till justice is served.
