=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Good Cop, Bad Cop | Family Matters Wiki | Fandom]
Good Cop, Bad Cop is the fifteenth episode of the fifth season of Family Matters, which aired on ABC on January 21, 1994. It was directed by Richard Correll and written both by Sara V. Finney and Vida Spears. Carl has warned Eddie about his reckless driving before. So when Eddie is pulled over for a traffic violation, he says he was the victim of racial profiling by two police officers. Carl ...
URL: https://familymatters.fandom.com/wiki/Good_Cop,_Bad_Cop

["Family Matters" Good Cop, Bad Cop (TV Episode 1994) - IMDb]
Good Cop, Bad Cop: Directed by Richard Correll. With Reginald VelJohnson, Jo Marie Payton, Rosetta LeNoire, Darius McCrary. Urkel's trip to rouge dentist Dr. Smiley (to reassure a scared Richie) takes a back seat to a terrifying racial profiling incident involving Eddie. He comes home claiming that a traffic stop for a turn signal violation turned out to be much more when the officers accuse ...
URL: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0577117/

[Family Matters S 5 E 15 Good Cop Bad Cop Recap - TV Tropes]
The Cameo: Musical group Shai appears during the cold open to serenade Laura in an Imagine Spot. Crying Wolf: What Carl initially believes when a shaken ...Missing: Season | Show results with:Season
URL: https://tvtropes.org/pmwiki/pmwiki.php/Recap/FamilyMattersS5E15GoodCopBadCop

["Family Matters" Good Cop, Bad Cop (TV Episode 1994) - IMDb]
Rating 7.8/10 (170) Urkel's trip to rouge dentist Dr. Smiley (to reassure a scared Richie) takes a back seat to a terrifying racial profiling incident involving Eddie.
URL: https://m.imdb.com/title/tt0577117/

[List of Family Matters episodes - Wikipedia]
List of Family Matters episodes Family Matters is an American television sitcom that originally aired on ABC for eight seasons from September 22, 1989, to May 9, 1997, then moved to CBS for its ninth and final season from September 19, 1997, to July 17, 1998. A total of 215 episodes were produced. [1]
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Family_Matters_episodes


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Good Cop, Bad Cop | Family Matters Wiki | Fandom] ---
Good Cop, Bad Cop is the fifteenth episode of the fifth season of Family Matters, which aired on ABC on January 21, 1994. It was directed by Richard Correll and written both by Sara V. Finney and Vida Spears. Synopsis[] | The text below is in severe need of a rewrite | Carl has warned Eddie about his reckless driving before. So when Eddie is pulled over for a traffic violation, he says he was the victim of racial profiling by two police officers. Carl refuses to accept his son's story of how he was "a black kid in a white neighborhood" until he sees it for himself. He soon tracks them down at a coffee shop and decides to get their side of the story. What he finds out is the ugly truth when the senior officer is revealed to be a severe bigot. An angry and frustrated Carl threatens to report the senior officer for his racial profiling, while also challenging his rookie partner to reevaluate his own attitude. Meanwhile, Urkel gets more than he bargained for when he takes a worried Richie to the dentist. Plot[] Laura and Steve are watching Shai perform in their music video, when she fantasizes having them perform in her living room. She's excited at first but is horrified to see Urkel's face on their faces. She screams and runs up the stairs into her room. Carl is excited that the Bears won and both Eddie and Waldo celebrate with him. Then Waldo accidentally spills the beans about Eddie's speeding ticket. Carl is upset and has warned Eddie about his reckless driving before threatening to confiscate his license for a year if he gets another ticket. Meanwhile, Laura and Urkel are studying in the kitchen when Richie comes in saying he's nervous about his upcoming dental check-up as Laura tries to convince him there's nothing bad about it. Steve convinces Richie to let him come along to show him there's nothing bad about a dental check-up and promises him ice cream afterwards. Later that night, Carl asks Harriette to go get him some pie. Estelle tells Carl to get it himself and calls him a lazy slug. Minutes later, Eddie comes home and tells them that he got pulled over for a traffic violation. He got a ticket for failure to signal but ended up being a victim of racial profiling by the officers. Harriette asks exactly what happened and Eddie explains that he was driving to a party in Burlington Heights and he got pulled over. He gave the two cops his driver's license and registration and started to ask if there was a problem. One of the cops became openly hostile, told Eddie to shut up and ordered him to get out of the car and lie on the ground and then cuffed him. Harriette and Estelle immediately believe Eddie, while Carl accuses him of provoking the cops' non-protocol response and assumes Eddie is just making up more lies to cover up for another driving screw-up but agrees to check it out. Eddie is hurt that his father doesn't believe him, citing it the worst experience of his life even worse than the profiling itself. The next day, the friendly and charming Dr. Smiley gives the good news to Richie about his teeth being in excellent condition and gives him cinnamon-flavored dental floss. Steve asks for the same flavored floss and Dr. Smiley says he can have some if he lets him examine his teeth. He happily agrees, claiming that he takes good care of them. Dr. Smiley sees otherwise and notices a cavity on one of his teeth. Knowing Urkel will try to squirm, he uses laughing gas. It has an adverse effect as Steve laughs uncontrollably and prevents Dr. Smiley from doing his job. Later on, Carl finds the two white officers at a coffee shop and decides to get their side of the story. When he introduces himself, the younger rookie Kenny Carmichael is friendly and professional, but his senior partner, Jack Evans is very smug and barely makes an effort to even look at Carl. When Carl asks about their pulling over Eddie the night before, he realizes the truth that Eddie had indeed been racially profiled with false traffic violations against him. Evans has revealed himself to be a severe bigot who enjoyed what he did to Eddie. He attempts to make excuses for his actions saying Eddie ran a stop sign, that he matched the description of a wanted carjacker, then that he was clearly looking for trouble just by being in the predominately white Burlington Heights neighborhood and that Eddie gave him a cocky attitude — none of which Carl accepts. Carmichael initially says little but then intervenes, by saying if Eddie told them that the latter's father was a cop, there wouldn't have been an issue which Carl also rebukes as it means they only harass black kids whose parents aren't cops. Carmichael insists that's not what he meant by that but Carl exclaims it doesn't matter what he meant as the bottom line is, the two cops harassed Eddie merely because he was black. Evans challenges Carl's accusation, claiming Carl has no proof of anything and Carl threatens to file a complaint and initiate an investigation against him. Evans challenges him to do so but it's still his and Carmichael's word against Eddie's. As Evans leaves, Carl tells him off saying that he's a slime ball who doesn't deserve his badge. Evans is insulted by his comment and storms away without saying another word. Just as Carmichael starts to follow, Carl stops him. He asks how long Carmichael has been on the force and if he enjoys it, as they never get credit for putting themselves on the frontline daily. Carmichael reveals it was a moot point; he's been on the force for almost a year and he does enjoy it, because he wanted to help out his community and make a positive difference with good guys against the bad guys. Carl likes Carmichael's reasons but challenges him to think maturely and logically about his actions, as it turns out that Evans is one of the bad guys. As Carl leaves a tip and walks out the door, Carmichael stands alone, forlorn and guilt-ridden. In the Winslow's living room, Eddie is still upset about what happened when Carl comes home and apologizes for not believing him sooner. He explains that because he is a cop, he needed to get their side of the story first before believing him. Eddie understands as Carl tells him they'll file a report in the morning. Eddie's upset and demands that the two cops should pay for his mistreatment towards him and will never forgive them for racially profiling him for something he didn't do. Carl understands his anger and convinces Eddie that there are two ways to deal with anger: either hold on to it and let it bottle up inside him or give it a voice and make a difference in his life. He even admits that he's been in the exact same situation as Eddie but he always gave his anger a voice and that's the reason he became a cop. Eddie realizes that Carl was right and agrees to file a complaint. In the end credits, Steve has arrived at the Winslow home and gives Laura a note. His note says that due to extensive dental work, he's in great pain and is unable to speak. It also mentions that he has to rest and won't be coming by for several days. Laura feigns sympathy for him. Once Urkel leaves, she's excited and celebrates. Cast[] Main[] - Reginald VelJohnson as Carl Winslow - Jo Marie Payton as Harriette Winslow (credited as Jo Marie Payton-Noble) - Rosetta LeNoire as Estelle Winslow - Darius McCrary as Eddie Winslow - Kellie Shanygne Williams as Laura Winslow - Bryton James as Richie Crawford (credited as Bryton McClure) - Jaleel White as Steve Urkel - Shawn Harrison as Waldo Geraldo Faldo Guest[] - Joe Chrest as Officer Carmichael - Robert Hooks as Dr. Smiley - Barry Cullison as Officer Evans - Annie Gagen as Waitress - Shai as Themselves Trivia[] - This is the second episode (of only a few) to emphasize that the Winslow family are African-American. - Eddie's car is stated to be a 1977 Dodge Monaco. - Darius McCrary has stated that this is his favorite episode in the series, and that a profiling incident happened to him in real life as well.[1] Quotes[] - Harriette: Eddie, tell us exactly what happened. - Eddie: Okay. I was on my way to a party in Burlington Heights. I was driving along minding my own business when the cops pulled me over. - Carl: Did they ask you for your license and registration? - Eddie: Yeah! Then I asked what the problem was and one of them told me to shut up! Then he made me get out of the car and lie face down! Then he cuffed me! - Carl: That's unusual procedure... unless you provoked it. - Eddie: But I didn't! People were driving by, looking at me like I was a criminal. And I didn't even do anything. - Carl: Son, are you absolutely sure? - Eddie: Dad, the only reason they pulled me over is because I was a black guy in a white neighborhood. - Estelle: Oh! - Harriette: Carl, this is frightening. - Eddie: You know what, I thought what I went through tonight was the worst thing that's ever happened to me. But I was wrong. Not having my own father believe me is even worse. - Carl: Say, did you happen to pull over a '77 Dodge Monaco? The driver was a black teenager. - Evans: Yeah. Ran a stop sign. - Carl: It was failure to signal. - Evans: Whatever. What are you, an activist on the force? - Carl: No, I'm a father on the force. And that kid was my son. - Evans: Look. I can see you're upset and all, but, hey, it was your kid that messed up, so don't try and take it out on me, alright? - Carl: No, it's not alright. And you know why it's not alright, Evans? Because I think you rousted my son. - Evans: No way! He fit the description of a carjacker we've been looking for. - Carl: That will not cut it, Evans! Because I am familiar with all the outstanding carjacking bulletins and not one suspect even remotely resembles my son! - Evans: Come on, give me a break. It's dark, it's a black guy. - Carl: [sarcastically] Oh, case closed. Lock him up. - Evans: You know, bottom line... your kid was in the wrong part of town. - Carl: The wrong part of town? - Evans: Yeah. - Carl: Oh, so what are you saying? That black kids aren't allowed in white neighborhoods? - Evans: Come on, they wouldn't be there unless they were looking for trouble. And you better talk to your kid. He gave me a lot of lip. - Carl: Oh? - Evans: Yeah. - Carl: Is that why you made him get out of his car? Is that why you forced him to lie down? Is that why you cuffed him? - Carmichael: Uh, look, Sarge, if your son had just told us he was a cop's kid, it would've been no problem. - Carl: So what are you saying? That you only harass black kids whose parents aren't cops? - Carmichael: I didn't say that. - Carl: You didn't have to say that. Because the point is, that you two harassed my son because he's black. - Evans: [scoffs] You can't prove that. - Carl: But I can file a complaint. And you can believe that I'm gonna be sure that there is an investigation. - Evans: Well, go ahead. It's our word against your kid's. Bye. - Carl: Just a second, Evans! You know, I really don't know how that badge stays on. Because it's pinned to slime. - Carl: Just a second, son. How long have you been on the force? - Carmichael: About a year, almost. - Carl: Do you like being a cop? - Carmichael: Yes, sir. - Carl: Why? It's a very dangerous job. You put your life on the line, every day, and you never get credit for it. - Carmichael: Yeah, I... I just thought I'd make a difference, you know? Good guys against the bad guys. - Carl: Well... that's a very good reason. Just one problem, son. Your partner is one of the bad guys.


--- ["Family Matters" Good Cop, Bad Cop (TV Episode 1994) - IMDb] ---
Formed in 2009, the Archive Team (not to be confused with the archive.org Archive-It Team) is a rogue archivist collective dedicated to saving copies of rapidly dying or deleted websites for the sake of history and digital heritage. The group is 100% composed of volunteers and interested parties, and has expanded into a large amount of related projects for saving online and digital history. History is littered with hundreds of conflicts over the future of a community, group, location or business that were "resolved" when one of the parties stepped ahead and destroyed what was there. With the original point of contention destroyed, the debates would fall to the wayside. Archive Team believes that by duplicated condemned data, the conversation and debate can continue, as well as the richness and insight gained by keeping the materials. Our projects have ranged in size from a single volunteer downloading the data to a small-but-critical site, to over 100 volunteers stepping forward to acquire terabytes of user-created data to save for future generations. The main site for Archive Team is at archiveteam.org and contains up to the date information on various projects, manifestos, plans and walkthroughs. This collection contains the output of many Archive Team projects, both ongoing and completed. Thanks to the generous providing of disk space by the Internet Archive, multi-terabyte datasets can be made available, as well as in use by the Wayback Machine, providing a path back to lost websites and work. Our collection has grown to the point of having sub-collections for the type of data we acquire. If you are seeking to browse the contents of these collections, the Wayback Machine is the best first stop. Otherwise, you are free to dig into the stacks to see what you may find. The Archive Team Panic Downloads are full pulldowns of currently extant websites, meant to serve as emergency backups for needed sites that are in danger of closing, or which will be missed dearly if suddenly lost due to hard drive crashes or server failures.


--- [Family Matters S 5 E 15 Good Cop Bad Cop Recap - TV Tropes] ---
An episode that is all too relevant to too many today ... the story of someone being arrested simply because of their skin color and the mere assumption that they're going to cause trouble. That's the frightening situation Eddie goes through when he is the unwilling target of a game of "Good Cop, Bad Cop." Tropes seen in this episode: - Actually, That's My Son: Carl telling Evans and his rookie partner, Carmichael, who they pulled over and why he has a direct interest in the incident. - Armor-Piercing Question: Carl, when he talks to Carmichael about the incident, asks him point blank why he became a police officer, acknowledging the dangers and lack of recognition that go along with being on the force. Carmichael is honest: He wanted to make a difference and be a community leader and protect his fellow citizens from the bad guys. Carl agrees that these are the right reasons, but informs Carmichael that he needs to realize that his partner Evans is "one of the bad guys." Carmichael lowers his head in remorse afterwards. - Armor-Piercing Response: Carl agrees to check out Eddie's claims about Driving While Black, but he's still skeptical, due to a previous incident of breaking curfew. This line, though, cuts Carl pretty deep.Eddie: You know, I thought this was the worst moment of my life, but I was wrong! Having your own father not believe you is even worse! - Artistic License – Pharmacology: When Steve takes laughing gas during his appointment, he becomes wildly hyperactive. Nitrous oxide is supposed to relax the patient, and while they may feel loopy from the high, they shouldn't be able to exert as much energy as Steve does. - The Bad Guys Are Cops: Chillingly so in a series where the father figure is a police officer ... and is outraged to learn that fellow lawmen on the force are harassing Black teenagers (including his son). - Bait-and-Switch Comment: While high on laughing gas, Steve realizes the irony of his dentist being named Dr. Smiley, but not for the reason that you think.Dr. Smiley: Is something funny? Steve: Well, I was just thinking... your name is Doc Smiley... but you never smile! - Big "YES!": Laura in response to getting several days away from Steve (who needs to recover from his dentist visit). - Blatant Lies: The superior officer claims Eddie ran a stop sign when he made the traffic stop, and that Eddie was being disrespectful, and that he fit the description of a carjacker. Carl debunks each one. - The Cameo: Musical group Shai appears during the cold open to serenade Laura in an Imagine Spot. - Crying Wolf: What Carl initially believes when a shaken Eddie explains his ordeal involving being pulled over, hassled and arrested for a minor traffic violation just because he's Black. A couple of nights earlier, Carl had scolded Eddie for getting a speeding ticket for the 2nd time, and – thanks to Waldo's loose lips – playing hooky ... so this time, it must be an excuse to cover up more juvenile behavior, right? Harriette and Estelle, who are in the room when Eddie comes home, immediately side with Eddie and are upset if not outraged that Carl is being so stubborn. - Dark Secret: Carl reveals to Eddie that he also was a victim of racial profiling when he was a teenager. - Death Glare: Carl in response to Evans proving to be just as bad as Eddie said he was. - The Dentist Episode: You are reading this correctly. And yes, this was a show with Urkel as a primary character, so what would any episode be without him raising hijinks? It happens in the subplot, where Richie is scared to go to the dentist. Urkel offers to take him to show there's nothing to be scared of. And then, when Urkel realizes he needs to have a cavity filled and has to be sedated, the gas has an adverse effect on him ... causing him to go wild and raise havoc at the office! A bit of comedy relief, as only Jaleel White could offer, in an otherwise very dark, dramatic episode. - Dirty Cop: The superior officer is a prime example, showing no remorse for profiling Eddie. - Driving While Black: Eddie is stopped for a minor traffic violation (failure to signal) while driving through a white neighborhood. - Heel Realization: Rookie police officer Carmichael, during the entire confrontation between Carl and Evans. He doesn't say much, but his facial expressions say it all. - I Warned You: When Carl comes back to the house to say he was right about the incident after all, Eddie immediately shouts, "I told you so!" - Imagine Spot: While watching a Shai music video, Laura imagines the group dropping by the house to sing for her. It devolves into a total nightmare when all four of them suddenly turn into Steve! - Internal Reformist: Carl tells Eddie that he was also a victim of racial profiling and that it made him angry, but he opted to channel that anger into the drive to try to make things better for others.Carl: Now, that's why I became a cop. - Ironic Name: Dr. Smiley, the dentist. Although he is professional as can be. - Mood Whiplash: The main plot (the nightmarish time Eddie was harassed and racially profiled by a racist police officer and his rookie partner during a traffic stop) and the subplot (Urkel raises cain at the dentist, which was strictly slapstick comedy). - Not Helping Your Case: Upon learning that Eddie is Carl's son, Carmichael tells Carl that the incident would have gone differently had he known he was stopping the son of a police officer. Carl immediately points out how this proves Evans' intentions were entirely fueled by racism. - "Not So Different" Remark: With filing a complaint his only option, an enraged Eddie asks how he's supposed to process all this. Carl gets him to calm down by saying he knows exactly what he's feeling, due to also being racially profiled, and gives him advice about how to move forward. - Oh, Crap!: When Evans realizes what he's in for as Carl angrily (to put it nicely) tells him what he thinks of him and that he will be investigated. - Papa Wolf: Evans scoffs at Carl's initial question – whether he stopped a 1977 Dodge Monaco driven by a Black teenager – with a taunt on him being the force's activist. Carl corrects this wrong assumption: "No, I'm a father on the force" ... this just beginning the verbal beatdown he gives Evans. - Mama Wolf: Harriette and Estelle are in the living room with Carl (who was already upset that Eddie is long late for his curfew) when they hear Eddie explain his ordeal and Carl refuse to believe him. Harriette and Estelle immediately know something bad happened and believe him, and are ready to give Carl the silent treatment until he at least checks out the story. - Punny Name: The subplot features a dentist named Smiley. - "Ray of Hope" Ending: Carl intends to have Eddie file a formal complaint over what happened, which will lead to a full investigation. Eddie is skeptical over this going anywhere, and Evans even boasted to Carl that it's his word against Eddie's. However, Carmichael's look of guilt after talking to Carl leaves open the possibility that he will tell the truth. - Smug Snake: Evans, all the way. His rookie partner, Carmichael, can only watch meekly as he gets the professional lesson of a lifetime. - The Tooth Hurts: Literally for Urkel – when Richie has had his turn in the dentist's chair – when he begins complaining of a toothache. - A Very Special Episode: This episode deals with racial profiling, with Eddie getting wrongly arrested by a racist cop. - Where da White Women At?: Not stated directly as such, but Evans definitely implies this when he tells Carl that there would be no other reason for Black teenagers to be in a white neighborhood other than they're "looking for trouble."


--- ["Family Matters" Good Cop, Bad Cop (TV Episode 1994) - IMDb] ---
No content


--- [List of Family Matters episodes - Wikipedia] ---
Family Matters is an American television sitcom that originally aired on ABC for eight seasons from September 22, 1989, to May 9, 1997, then moved to CBS for its ninth and final season from September 19, 1997, to July 17, 1998. A total of 215 episodes were produced.
