=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Philippines ratifies UN nuclear weapon ban treaty - ICAN]
Feb 19, 2021 · The Philippine senate unanimously approved ratification on 1 February, with the permanent mission of the Philippines to the United Nations in New York depositing the instrument of ratification with the UN secretary-general, António Guterres, on 18 February.
URL: https://www.icanw.org/philippines_ratification

[Southeast Asian Nuclear-Weapon-Free Zone Treaty - Wikipedia]
It became fully effective on 21 June 2001, after the Philippines ratified it, effectively banning all nuclear weapons in the region.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Southeast_Asian_Nuclear-Weapon-Free_Zone_Treaty

[Protocols to the Nuclear-Weapon-Free-Zone Treaties]
Each treaty establishing a nuclear-weapon-free zone includes protocol (s) for the five nuclear-weapon states recognized under the NPT – China, France, Russia, the United Kingdom, and...
URL: https://www.un.org/nwfz/content/protocols-nuclear-weapon-free-zone-treaties

[PH deposits ratification instrument of Nuclear Weapon Ban Treaty]
MANILA – The Philippine government has deposited the instrument of ratification of the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons (TPNW) or the Nuclear Weapon Ban Treaty on Feb. 18, making the Philippines the 53rd state to ratify the said accord.
URL: https://www.pna.gov.ph/articles/1131793

[Southeast Asia Nuclear Weapon-Free Zone (SEANWFZ)]
On 15 December 1995, ASEAN Member States signed the Treaty of Southeast Asia Nuclear Weapon-Free Zone (SEANWFZ Treaty) as a commitment to preserve the Southeast Asian region as a region free of nuclear and other weapons of mass destruction.
URL: https://asean.org/our-communities/asean-political-security-community/peaceful-secure-and-stable-region/southeast-asia-nuclear-weapon-free-zone-seanwfz/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Philippines ratifies UN nuclear weapon ban treaty - ICAN] ---
The Philippines has become the 53rd country to ratify the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons, which entered into force on 22 January. President Rodrigo Duterte hailed the ratification as a milestone and reiterated his country’s commitment to work with others to achieve a nuclear-weapon-free world for “peace, security, and the survival of all humanity”. The Philippine senate unanimously approved ratification on 1 February, with the permanent mission of the Philippines to the United Nations in New York depositing the instrument of ratification with the UN secretary-general, António Guterres, on 18 February. The treaty is “the first globally applicable multilateral agreement to comprehensively prohibit nuclear weapons on the basis of international humanitarian law”, said Senator Aquilino “Koko” Pimentel III, who was responsible for initiating the resolution to enable the ratification. “The Hiroshima and Nagasaki bombings in Japan are horrors that should never be repeated.” The Philippines played an important role in the negotiation of the treaty in 2017. It noted that the “present geopolitical realities” make progress in the field of nuclear disarmament all the more important and urgent. Upon signing the treaty that year, it said: “If we listen to each other, we will hear the same thing. We have no need for nuclear weapons.” The Center for Peace Education at Miriam College, an ICAN partner organisation in the Philippines, has worked for many years under the outstanding leadership of Loreta Castro and Jasmin Nario-Galace to raise public awareness about the treaty and to build political support for it. They warmly welcomed the news of the ratification today. The Philippines is the sixth member of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations to ratify the landmark treaty, after Thailand, Vietnam, Laos, Malaysia, and Cambodia. The development is in line with the country’s constitution of 1987, which mandates it to adopt and pursue a policy of freedom from nuclear weapons in its territory.


--- [Southeast Asian Nuclear-Weapon-Free Zone Treaty - Wikipedia] ---
The Southeast Asian Nuclear-Weapon-Free Zone Treaty (SEANWFZ), or the Bangkok Treaty of 1995, is a nuclear weapons moratorium treaty between 11 Southeast Asian member-states under the auspices of the ASEAN: Brunei, Cambodia, Indonesia, Laos, Malaysia, Myanmar, Philippines, Singapore, Thailand, Vietnam and Timor-Leste. It was opened for signature at the treaty conference in Bangkok, Thailand, on 15 December 1995 and it entered into force on March 28, 1997 and obliges its members not to develop, manufacture or otherwise acquire, possess or have control over nuclear weapons.
The Zone is the area comprising the territories of the states and their respective continental shelves and Exclusive Economic Zones (EEZ); "Territory" means the land territory, internal waters, territorial sea, archipelagic waters, the seabed and the sub-soil thereof and the airspace above them.
The treaty includes a protocol under which the five nuclear-weapon states recognized by the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT), namely China, the United States, France, Russia and the United Kingdom (who are also the five permanent members of the United Nations Security Council) undertake to respect the Treaty and do not contribute to a violation of it by State parties.  None of the nuclear-weapon states have signed this protocol.


--- [Protocols to the Nuclear-Weapon-Free-Zone Treaties] ---
Protocols to the Nuclear-Weapon-Free-Zone Treaties Each treaty establishing a nuclear-weapon-free zone includes protocol(s) for the five nuclear-weapon states recognized under the NPT – China, France, Russia, the United Kingdom, and the United States – to sign and ratify. These protocols, which are legally binding, call upon the nuclear-weapon states to respect the status of the zones and not to use or threaten to use nuclear weapons against treaty states-parties. Such declarations of non-use of nuclear weapons are referred to as negative security assurances. Status of ratification of the protocols to the treaties establishing nuclear-weapon-free zones* | PROTOCOL | STATUS | CHINA | FRANCE | RUSSIAN FEDERATION | UNITED KINGDOM | UNITED STATES | | Additional Protocol II to the Treaty of Tlatelolco | Signed Ratified | 21 Aug. 1973 12 June 1974 | 18 July 1973 22 Mar. 1974 | 18 May 1978 8 Jan. 1979 | 20 Dec. 1967 11 Dec. 1969 | 1 Apr. 1968 12 May 1971 | | Protocol 2 to the Treaty of Rarotonga | Signed Ratified | 10 Feb. 1987 21 Oct. 1988 | 25 Mar. 1996 20 Sep. 1996 | 15 Dec. 1986 21 Apr. 1988 | 25 Mar. 1996 19 Sep. 1997 | 25 Mar. 1996 -a[1] | | Protocol to the Bangkok Treaty | Signed Ratified | - - | - - | - - | - - | - - | | Protocol I to the Pelindaba Treaty | Signed Ratified | 11 Apr. 1996 10 Oct. 1997 | 11 Apr. 1996 20 Sep. 1996 | 5 Nov 1996 5 Apr. 2011 | 11 Apr. 1996 12 Mar. 2001 | 11 Apr. 1996 -b[2] | | Protocol to the CANWFZ Treaty | Signed Ratified | 6 May 2014 17 Aug. 2015 | 6 May 2014 17 Nov. 2014 | 6 May 2014 22 Jun. 2015 | 6 May 2014 30 Jan. 2015 | 6 May 2014 -c[3] | | The status of signature and ratification of the treaties and protocols are available at the UN Disarmament Treaties Database: | Detailed information on the Protocols to the Nuclear-Weapon-Free Zone Treaties Treaty of Tlatelolco The Treaty of Tlatelolco has two Additional Protocols. Additional Protocol I has been signed and ratified by the United States, France, The Netherlands, and the United Kingdom, albeit with certain reservations and declarations attached. Additional Protocol II has been signed and ratified by China, the United States, France, The United Kingdom, and Russia, albeit with certain reservations and declarations attached. Additional Protocol I is directed towards extra-continental or continental States having de jure or de facto international responsibility for territories situated in the Zone of Application of the Treaty of Tlatelolco. These States undertake legally binding commitments to apply the status of denuclearization in respect of warlike purposes as defined in Articles 1, 3, 5 and 13 of the Treaty for the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons in Latin America and the Caribbean in territories for which, de jure or de facto, they are internationally responsible and which lie within the limits of the geographical zone established in that Treaty. Additional Protocol II is directed towards nuclear-weapon States. Said States undertake legally binding commitments not to contribute in any way to the performance of acts involving a violation of the obligations of Article 1 of the Treaty in the territories to which the Treaty applies in accordance with Article 4 thereof. In addition, States Parties to Additional Protocol II commit themselves not to use or threaten to use nuclear weapons against the Contracting Parties of the Treaty for the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons in Latin America and the Caribbean. | Full text of the Protocols to the Treaty of Tlatelolco is available at the UN Disarmament Treaties Database: | Treaty of Rarotonga The Treaty of Rarotonga has three Protocols. All nuclear weapon States have signed the Treaty’s protocols, but not all have ratified. France and the United Kingdom have ratified the three Protocols. China and Russia ratified Protocols II and III. The United States has signed the protocols but has not ratified any. Protocol I calls on each Party with respect to the territories situated within the South Pacific Nuclear Free Zone for which it is internationally responsible, to apply the prohibitions of the Treaty. Protocol II requires Nuclear Weapons States not to use or threaten to use nuclear explosive devices against any Party to the Treaty or against each other’s territories located within the Zone. Protocol III calls on the Nuclear Weapons States not to test nuclear explosive devices within the Zone. | Full text of the Protocols to the Treaty of Rarotonga is available at the UN Disarmament Treaties Database: | Treaty of Bangkok The Treaty of Bangkok has one Protocol. Currently, none of the nuclear-weapon States have signed or ratified the Protocol to the Treaty of Bangkok. The Protocol to the SEANWFZ Treaty provides for legally-binding security assurances from the nuclear-weapon States not to use or threaten to use nuclear weapons against any State Party to the Treaty. It further undertakes not to use or threaten to use nuclear weapons within the Southeast Asia Nuclear Weapon-Free Zone. Since the signing of the SEANWFZ Treaty, States Parties have pursued consultations with the five nuclear-weapon States (NWS) - namely the People’s Republic of China, the French Republic, the Russian Federation, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, and the United States of America - to secure the latter’s recognition of the SEANWFZ Treaty through their signing of the Protocol to the Treaty. After a long hiatus, direct consultations between the States Parties and the NWS resumed in 2011. However, the French Republic, the Russian Federation, and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland have indicated that they would submit reservations to the Protocol upon signing. As ASEAN Member States need more time to consider this matter, none of the NWS have acceded to the Protocol to the Treaty so far. In April 2019, the NWS indicated their willingness to resume consultations with ASEAN on the Protocol to the Treaty. In this regard, States Parties reaffirmed their commitment to continuously engage the NWS and intensify ongoing efforts of all parties to resolve all outstanding issues in accordance with the objectives and principles of the Treaty. NWS have not signed the Protocol to the SEANWFZ Treaty because they object to the inclusion of continental shelves and EEZ; to the restriction not to use nuclear weapons within the zone; or from within the zone against targets outside the zone, and to the restriction on the passage of nuclear-powered ships through the zone vis-à-visthe issue of the high seas as embodied in the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS). The NWS also raised the issue that the continental shelves and EEZ are not clearly defined in the South China Sea, which creates uncertainty over the scope of the treaty, as well as the treaty's protocol obligations. The United States also expressed concerns with the nature of the legally binding negative security assurances to be expected of the parties to the protocol, the alleged ambiguity of the treaty's language concerning the permissibility of port calls by ships, which may carry nuclear weapons, and the procedural rights of the parties to the protocol to be represented before the various executive bodies set up by the treaty to ensure its implementation. | Full text of the Protocol to the Treaty of Bangkok is available at the UN Disarmament Treaties Database | Pelindaba Treaty The Pelindaba Treaty has three Protocols. China, France, Russian Federation and the United Kingdom have signed and ratified Protocols I and II with reservations by some of them. The United States have signed, but not ratified Protocol I and II. France and Spain have neither signed nor ratified Protocol III. Under Protocol I, the Parties undertake not to use or threaten to use a nuclear explosive device against Any Party to the Treaty; or any territory within the African nuclear-weapon-free zone for which a State that has become a Party to Protocol III is internationally responsible as defined in annex I. Under Protocol II, the Parties undertake not to test or assist or encourage the testing of any nuclear explosive device anywhere within the African nuclear-weapon-free zone. Under Protocol III, the Parties undertake to apply, in respect of the territories for which it is de jure or de facto internationally responsible situated within the African nuclear-weapon-free zone, the provisions contained in articles 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 and 10 of the Treaty and to ensure the application of safeguards specified in annex II of the Treaty. | Full text of the Protocols to the Pelindaba Treaty is available at the UN Disarmament Treaties Database: | Central Asia Nuclear-Weapon-Free Zone Treaty The Central Asia Nuclear-Weapon-Free Zone Treaty (CANWFZ) Treaty has one Protocol. The CANWFZ Treaty Protocol has been signed by the five nuclear-weapons States in 2014, but was, so far, ratified by four with the exception of the United States in order to finalize the institutionalization of the zone. The Protocol to the CANWFZ Treaty provides for legally-binding security assurances from the nuclear-weapon States not to use or threaten to use a nuclear weapon or other nuclear explosive device against any Party to the Treaty. | Full text of the Protocol to the CANWFZ Treaty is available at the UN Disarmament Treaties Database: | * as at 1 December 2020 [1] a The Protocol was submitted on 2 May 2011 to the United States Senate for its consent to ratification (United States, Message from the President of the United States transmitting Protocols 1, 2, and 3 to the South Pacific Nuclear Free Zone Treaty, signed on behalf of the United States at Suva on March 25, 1996 (Washington, DC, United States Government Printing Office, 2011), available from https://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/CDOC-112tdoc2/pdf/CDOC-112tdoc2.pdf). [2] b The Protocol was submitted on 2 May 2011 to the United States Senate for its consent to ratification (United States, Message from the President of the United States transmitting Protocols I and II to the African Nuclear-Weapon-Free Zone Treaty, signed on behalf of the United States at Cairo, Egypt, on April 11, 1996, including a Third Protocol Related to the Treaty (Washington, DC, United States Government Printing Office, 2011), available from https://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/CDOC-112tdoc3/pdf/CDOC-112tdoc3.pdf). [3] c The Protocol was submitted on 27 April 2015 to the United States Senate for its consent to ratification (United States, Message from the President of the United States Transmitting the Protocol to the Treaty on a Nuclear-Weapon-Free Zone in Central Asia, signed at New York on May 6, 2014 (Washington, DC, United States Government Printing Office, 2015), available from https://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/CDOC114tdoc2/pdf/CDOC-114tdoc2.pdf).


--- [PH deposits ratification instrument of Nuclear Weapon Ban Treaty] ---
MANILA – The Philippine government has deposited the instrument of ratification of the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons (TPNW) or the Nuclear Weapon Ban Treaty on Feb. 18, making the Philippines the 53rd state to ratify the said accord. In a statement dated Feb. 23, the Philippine Mission to the United Nations in New York said the TPNW would represent efforts towards the universalization of global norms against nuclear weapons. "For the Philippines, the nuclear ban treaty fortifies the nuclear disarmament architecture. It represents the universalization of the hope for the elimination of nuclear weapons, and is in line with the specific provision of the Philippine Constitution and the Treaty on the South-East Asian Nuclear Weapon-Free Zone," it said. The Philippines signed the Treaty on Sept. 20, 2017 in New York. Last Feb. 21, the Philippine Senate adopted the resolution concurring with the ratification of the TPNW. The resolution was introduced and sponsored by Senator Aquilino “Koko” Pimentel III, co-sponsored by all other senators, and was unanimously adopted with 23 votes. According to the Philippine Mission, the TPNW entered into force on Jan. 22, 2021 when the 50th State submitted its Instrument of Ratification. Under the provisions of the treaty, the first meeting of the States Parties to the Treaty will be held in Vienna, Austria within one year of the accord's entry into force. The date of the meeting has yet to be set. (PNA)


--- [Southeast Asia Nuclear Weapon-Free Zone (SEANWFZ)] ---
Overview On 15 December 1995, ASEAN Member States signed the Treaty of Southeast Asia Nuclear Weapon-Free Zone (SEANWFZ Treaty) as a commitment to preserve the Southeast Asian region as a region free of nuclear and other weapons of mass destruction. The Treaty is also known as the Bangkok Treaty. Through thisTreaty, ASEAN reaffirms the importance of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) in preventing the proliferation of nuclear weapons and in contributing towards international peace and security. It also marks the establishment of a Nuclear Weapon-Free Zone (NWFZ) in Southeast Asia – one among five NWFZs in the world. The other four NWFZs are in Latin America and the Caribbean, South Pacific, Africa, and Central Asia. The Protocol to the SEANWFZ Treaty welcomes the signing and early ratification of the Nuclear Weapon States (NWS), which will contribute to the promotion of the realisation of a Southeast Asia Nuclear Weapon-Free Zone. Efforts are underway towards the accession of the NWS to the Protocol. Priority Areas of Cooperation To ensure the full realisation of the goals and objective of the Treaty, the first Plan of Action to Strengthen the Implementation of the SEANWFZ (PoA) was adopted in 2007 for a period of five years, and was subsequently extended. ASEAN also engages external partners to strengthen the capacities of ASEAN Member States in implementing the Treaty, including with the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) and other partners. Major Sectoral Bodies/Committees The Southeast Asia Nuclear Weapon-Free Zone (SEANWFZ) Commission oversees the implementation of the SEANWFZ Treaty and ensure compliance with its provisions. The Commission, comprising ASEAN Foreign Ministers, is assisted by the SEANWFZ Executive Committee and its Working Group, which meets once a year, respectively. The Chairmanship of the Commission is rotated on a yearly basis following the ASEAN Chairmanship. The Commission discusses important policy issues in the area of non-proliferation and disarmament, nuclear safety, security and safeguards, including measures to enhance the profile of the Treaty at the United Nations (UN). Key Documents - Treaty on the Southeast Asia Nuclear Weapon-Free Zone - Protocol to the Treaty on the Southeast Asia Nuclear Weapon-Free Zone - Plan of Action to Strengthen the Implementation of the Treaty on the Southeast Asia Nuclear Weapon-Free Zone (2013-2017) - Plan of Action to Strengthen the Implementation of the Treaty on the Southeast Asia Nuclear Weapon-Free Zone (2018-2022) - Plan of Action to Strengthen The Implementation of The Treaty on The Southeast Asia Nuclear Weapon-Free Zone (2023-2027)
