=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[John Logie Baird | First TV Demonstration | Blue Plaques]
The engineer and inventor John Logie Baird gave the world's first demonstration of a working television at 22 Frith Street in Soho in January 1926.Missing: motion? | Show results with:motion?
URL: https://www.english-heritage.org.uk/visit/blue-plaques/john-logie-baird-television/

[Milestones:First Public Demonstration of Television, 1926]
Sep 3, 2025 · The first public demonstration in the USA was given on 17th April 1927 by AT &T, over a year later, which succeeded in transmitting the images ...Missing: silhouette | Show results with:silhouette
URL: https://ethw.org/Milestones:First_Public_Demonstration_of_Television,_1926

[History of television]
On March 25, 1925, Baird gave the first public demonstration of televised silhouette images in motion at Selfridges department store in London. Since ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/History_of_television

[A Hundred Years Ago in Hastings – the Invention of Television]
Sep 6, 2023 · In late 1924, when some money finally arrived, Baird left Hastings to go to London. On 25 March 1925 he gave the first public demonstration of televised silhouette images in motion at Selfridges department store in London. He used cut-outs in order to step up the contrast beyond that of a human face, to make sure they showed up on his system.
URL: https://www.hastingsindependentpress.co.uk/articles/culture/arts/a-hundred-years-ago-in-hastings-the-invention-of-television/

[First Public Demonstration of Television | History - EBSCO]
The first public demonstration of television took place on January 27, 1926, before the Royal Institution in London, England. It was an attempt by Scottish ...Missing: silhouette | Show results with:silhouette
URL: https://www.ebsco.com/research-starters/history/first-public-demonstration-television


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [John Logie Baird | First TV Demonstration | Blue Plaques] ---
BAIRD, John Logie (1888-1946) Plaque erected in 1951 by London County Council at 22 Frith Street, Soho, London, W1D 4RP, City of Westminster Profession Television Pioneer Category Industry and Invention, Science Inscription IN 1926 IN THIS HOUSE JOHN LOGIE BAIRD 1888-1946 FIRST DEMONSTRATED TELEVISION Material Ceramic Notes John Logie Baird also has a blue plaque at his home in Sydenham, at 3 Crescent Wood Road. The engineer and inventor John Logie Baird gave the world’s first demonstration of a working television at 22 Frith Street in Soho in January 1926. He used two attic rooms in the property as his laboratory from November 1924 to February 1926. THE INVENTION OF TELEVISION Born in Scotland, Baird studied electrical engineering in Glasgow, and in 1922 began to formulate ideas about how to transmit and receive pictures. With only limited resources, he set about investigating his theories, and by 1925 had made excellent progress. In March of that year, he began a three-week series of demonstrations of moving silhouette images at Selfridge’s department store in Oxford Street. FIRST PICTURES On 2 October, working from his Frith Street laboratory, Baird managed to transmit the first television picture with tone gradation, first using the head of a ventriloquist’s dummy and then moving on to a human face. Baird’s subject was William Edward Taynton, a 20-year-old office boy, who later recalled: Mr Baird rushed downstairs in baggy flannels, a pair of carpet slippers, and no socks. He almost dragged me into his workroom and sat me in front of his machine, a mass of wires and enormous electric light bulbs. THE ‘TELEVISOR’ REVEALED On 26 January 1926 Baird repeated his experiment, this time making a formal demonstration of his ‘televisor’ in front of 40 members of the Royal Institution. A Times journalist reported that the image was: faint and often blurred, but substantiated a claim that through the ‘Televisor’ … it is possible to transmit and reproduce instantly the details of movement, and such things as the play of expression on the face. In early 1927 the world’s first television sets were offered for sale in Selfridge’s and in 1928 Baird sent a television picture across the Atlantic and also demonstrated colour television for the first time. The BBC inaugurated the country’s first 30-line television service in August 1932 using Baird’s mechanical system, but it was replaced in 1937 by a rival electronic system developed by the Marconi–EMI corporation. William Taynton, the first person to be televised, was present when Baird’s plaque at 22 Frith Street was unveiled on the 25th anniversary of the demonstration. Baird has a second plaque at 3 Crescent Wood Road in Sydenham, where he lived from 1933 until 1945.


--- [Milestones:First Public Demonstration of Television, 1926] ---
No content


--- [History of television] ---
The history of television begins with the work of many individuals in the late 19th and early 20th centuries. Constantin Perskyi coined the word television in a paper read to the International Electricity Congress at the World's Fair in Paris on August 24, 1900. 
The first practical transmissions of moving images over a radio system used mechanical rotating perforated disks to scan a scene into a time-varying signal that could be reconstructed at a receiver back into an approximation of the original image. Development of television was interrupted by the Second World War. After the end of the war, all-electronic methods of scanning and displaying images became standard. Several different standards for addition of color to transmitted images were developed with different regions using technically incompatible signal standards. 
Television broadcasting expanded rapidly after the war, becoming an important mass medium for advertising, propaganda, and entertainment. 
Television broadcasts can be distributed over the air by very high frequency (VHF) and ultra high frequency (UHF) radio signals from terrestrial transmitting stations, by microwave signals from Earth-orbiting satellites, or by wired transmission to individual consumers by cable television. Many countries have since shifted from the original analog radio transmission methods to relying on digital television standards, providing additional operating features and conserving radio spectrum bandwidth for more profitable uses. Television programming can also be distributed over the Internet.
Funding for television broadcasting varies, but is often subsidized by advertising revenue, by private or governmental organizations prepared to underwrite the cost, or in some countries, by television license fees paid by owners of receivers. Some services, especially carried by cable or satellite, are paid by subscriptions. 
Television broadcasting is supported by continuing technical developments such as long-haul microwave networks, which allow distribution of programming over a wide geographic area. Video recording methods allow programming to be edited and replayed for later use. Three-dimensional television has been used commercially but has not received wide consumer acceptance owing to the limitations of display methods.




--- [A Hundred Years Ago in Hastings – the Invention of Television] ---
A Hundred Years Ago in Hastings – the Invention of Television JUDE MONTAGUE delves into the Logie Baird archives at Hastings Museum It’s a hundred years since John Logie Baird first transmitted images, transferring the outline of shapes from one site to another. The first successful experiment took place right in the centre of Hastings. Baird was born in 1888 at Helensborough in Scotland and was educated at the Royal Technical College in Glasgow, but having for many years suffered from ill-health he thought the sea-air of England’s South Coast would help. In 1922 he moved to Hastings but continued to put his own well-being secondary to that of his passion for inventing. As far back as his schooldays, Baird was interested in electricity and engineering and created a homemade generator to supply the lodge building with electric light. One of his inventions was to help soldiers combat trench foot with medicated stockings, marketed as ‘The Baird Undersock’. Others included an inadvertently corrosive soap and a glass razor. He tried out other opportunities in international trade, dabbling in Australian honey and Trinidadian jam. In 1923 he created the first successful experience of ‘seeing by wireless’. The televised image was of outlines only. Though it is hard to pinpoint an exact date (and therefore hard to commemorate) it was probably in June, as Baird took out a patent for his ‘Televisor’ machine in July. At this point he concentrated on simple shapes and the first recorded image broadcast was of the Maltese Cross, an eight-pointed heraldic symbol of medieval bands of knights. Following Baird’s footsteps, the town criss-crosses several different locations. He first set up his laboratory somewhere near Hastings Station, presumably in a building that no longer exists. When those premises were required for a shop, he moved to a large room at 21 Linton Crescent, according to H.T. Elgar of 59 Linton Road, who wrote to a newspaper to tell how Baird often came into his shop. Elgar would cut out pieces of tin and sheet brass for him and the customer told the shopkeeper that he was carrying out experiments in television in his own room. One morning Baird came in full of excitement, having successfully broadcast a blurred object! He asserted that he would keep on trying until he got a picture. Soon after this Baird moved his workshop and Elgar lost touch with the inventor. V. R. Mills, of 227 St Helen’s Road, was interviewed for a fascinating article ‘How Television Began’ in which he described how he first met Baird when he came to his house to consult about selenium cells. By this time Baird had moved into a new lab at the Queen’s Arcade (Avenue), number 8, where he took a room over a flower shop with a friend, Guy Robertson. Mills describes their set up vividly: “There was junk everywhere and I trod on old bits of wire, newspaper, plywood, etc.” The transmitter never actually produced results at the Arcade. To produce an effective current, Baird wired up 100 pocket lamp batteries in series to produce a 2,000 volt power supply. In reckless disregard for his own safety he did not wear insulating gloves and gave himself a shock which hurt his hands. This was reported in the local paper in July 1924 in an article ‘Serious Explosion in Hastings Lab’, whereon his landlord, Mr Twigg, gave him notice to quit. Baird moved his Televisor back to Linton Crescent where, according to Mills, it produced flickering on a screen on the opposite end of the room – images of squares, triangles and other simple figures. The Televisor was was made out of an old tea-chest which formed the base to carry the motor which rotated the Nipkow discs that allowed the selection of visual waves that would then be amplified to carry to image from one location to another. The apparatus was assembled on a washstand which stood in for a laboratory bench. Other materials mentioned were hat boxes, string, sealing wax, darning needles and scrapwood. Louise Leighton, looking back, remembered Baird buying lots of 7lb biscuit tins, not just for the biscuits. He would cut them up and use the metal to construct the machine. “We often gave Mr Baird and his friend a cup of tea, and I have often wondered what happened to the friend who used to walk about the Avenue in his sandals and without socks, a rare thing in 1924.” Mills in turn recollected many people staring and pointing at them both as they both went around town in the full character of absent-minded inventors. Mills is later recorded as living at 35 Ghyllside Drive. As Baird’s apparatus became more involved and more expensive he started going without food to save money. He was prepared to put all he had into the development of the Televisor and he had a strong idea of how it could be applied, writing to the established film entrepreneur Mr Will Day for financial backing. In the early 1920s, the regular newsreel that would play alongside a fiction feature film was a staple of the cinema experience. But news footage was recorded on film and then shipped at great speed through the distribution networks. If Baird’s television technology could broadcast moving pictures as they happened live in cinema it would replace those news films and make going to the cinema more immediate and exciting. In July 1924 he told the Hastings press that “It is now only a question of time . . . until we can sit in a cinema hundreds of miles away and witness the finish of the Derby transmitted by wireless onto the screen.” In late 1924, when some money finally arrived, Baird left Hastings to go to London. On 25 March 1925 he gave the first public demonstration of televised silhouette images in motion at Selfridges department store in London. He used cut-outs in order to step up the contrast beyond that of a human face, to make sure they showed up on his system. He painted a ventriloquist’s dummy to highlight the contrast of its features and named it ‘Stooky Bill’. On October 2 1925 Stooky Bill’s head appeared clearly on the screen. On January 26, 1926, real human faces were transmitted in image at the Royal Institution, and this has been widely accepted as the world’s first public television demonstration. Thank you to the Hastings Museum for allowing me access to the Logie Baird archives and the papers and letters there that have enabled me to follow the inventor through history as he brought his television system into being. We hope you have enjoyed reading this article. The future of our volunteer led, non-profit publication would be far more secure with the aid of a small donation. You can also support local journalism by becoming a friend of HIP. It only takes a minute and we would be very grateful.


--- [First Public Demonstration of Television | History - EBSCO] ---
First Public Demonstration of Television The first public demonstration of television occurred on January 27, 1926, at the Royal Institution in London, showcasing the pioneering work of Scottish inventor John Logie Baird. This event marked a significant moment in technological history as Baird sought to attract investment and commercial interest in his innovative device. Utilizing the Nipkow Disk, a mechanical scanning method developed in the 1880s, Baird successfully transmitted moving images, making considerable advancements to earlier technology with the addition of the photoelectric cell. Following this demonstration, Baird garnered support from private investors and established television stations, achieving notable milestones such as the first transatlantic broadcast. Despite initial successes, Baird's collaboration with the British Broadcasting Corporation (BBC) proved challenging, as their differing priorities led to a split. Nonetheless, Baird continued to evolve in the television field, eventually embracing electronic television and contributing to advancements in color and large-screen projection technologies. His efforts laid the groundwork for the widespread adoption of television in households around the world by the 1950s. Baird's legacy in television innovation is remembered even after his passing in 1946. First Public Demonstration of Television First Public Demonstration of Television The first public demonstration of television took place on January 27, 1926, before the Royal Institution in London, England. It was an attempt by Scottish inventor John Logie Baird to encourage investment in his new device and develop the means for selling it commercially. Baird was born on July 30, 1888, in Helensburgh, Scotland. He attended the Royal Technical College and the University of Glasgow but was at first unsuccessful in pursuing his chosen career as an electrical engineer. While he worked at various odd jobs in order to eke out a meager existence, Baird experimented with early television devices and prototypes. He used a device developed by German scientist Paul Nipkow in the 1880s called the Nipkow Disk, a spinning disk with perforated holes. It performed a crude form of mechanical scanning of pictures, which could then be transmitted to receivers for the recreation of the original images. Over many years Baird made significant improvements in Nipkow's device, notably incorporating the newly developed photoelectric cell. He could transmit moving images and was able to build and demonstrate a working mechanical television by 1926. Afterwards, a group of private investors agreed to fund Baird's venture. Baird was granted a transmitting license by the British post office and permission to use their telephone lines for his transmissions. He built two television stations and transmitted images as far as Hartsdale, New York, the first transatlantic television broadcast in history. Baird was hailed as a visionary by the public, and for a while Baird Television Limited was quite successful. However, in the late 1920s Baird entered into what would be a disastrous relationship with the British Broadcasting Corporation (BBC). Then just a radio broadcaster, the BBC had been criticized for lagging behind innovators like Baird, and so it reluctantly agreed to collaborate with him. The association proved to be unworkable. The BBC was more interested in commercially practical televisions suitable for mass production and relatively free of technical problems, while Baird wanted to develop television technology as quickly and as far as possible. Eventually the two went their separate ways, especially when various competitors began to produce electronic television sets that were more promising than Baird's mechanical models. However, Baird stayed active in the field and eventually embraced electronic television with enthusiasm. During the late 1930s and into the 1940s, Baird contributed to developments in color television, three-dimensional or “stereoscopic” television, and large-screen projection television. He even worked on and promoted the further development of high-density television, which came into widespread usage only in the early years of the 21st century. Baird died on July 29, 1946, while pursuing these and other interests.
