=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Hit Parader - Wikipedia]
Hit Parader was launched in 1942 [1] by Charlton Publications, based in Derby, Connecticut. Publishing its first issue on September 16, 1942, the magazine's original mission statement read as follows: Hit Parader is designed to appeal to boys and girls in school, in colleges, and in the armed services... and the millions who listen to radio every day, the people who go to the movies and dances ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hit_Parader

[Hit Parader - afka.net]
Hit Parader was sold in 1991, when Charlton ran into financial troubles and folded. (...) Since 1984, the magazine, like so many other music publications, caters largely to hard rock and heavy metal fans. (CBub) Hit Parader ceased publication after the release of December 2008 issue.
URL: https://www.afka.net/Mags/Hit_Parader.htm

[Hit Parader Magazine, Bob Dylan front cover]
HIT PARADER was sold in 1991, when Charlton ran into financial troubles and folded. Since 1984, the magazine, like so many other music publications, catered largely to hard rock and heavy metal fans. HIT PARADER ceased publication after the release of December 2008 issue. Thank you to Eric Galzi for the improved images.
URL: https://www.bobdylan-comewritersandcritics.com/pages/mags_fichiers/hitparader.htm

[HIT PARADER, 2 ISSUES, ROCK FAN MAGAZINE. APRIL & MARCH 1979 ... - eBay]
Published by Charlton Publications, HIT PARADER provides insights into the world of rock music during the late 1970s. They have been read and stored a long time. Color photos, lots of rock stars. Thanks for lookin' dudes!!
URL: https://www.ebay.com/itm/198150256852

[Hit Parader - Zappa Wiki Jawaka]
Hit Parader was sold in 1991, when Charlton ran into financial troubles and folded. (...) Since 1984, the magazine, like so many other music publications, caters largely to hard rock and heavy metal fans." — 20 Top Music Magazine Histories, CBub Productions, 1998.
URL: https://wiki.killuglyradio.com/wiki/Hit_Parader


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Hit Parader - Wikipedia] ---
Hit Parader is an American music magazine that operated originally between 1942 and 2008 before being relaunched in 2025. A monthly publication, it focused on rock and pop music in general until the 1970s, when its focus began turning to hard rock and heavy metal. By the early 1980s, Hit Parader focused exclusively on heavy metal and briefly produced a spinoff television program entitled Hit Parader's Heavy Metal Heroes. The magazine reached its circulation peak in the mid-to-late 1980s, selling a half-million copies every month, as heavy metal music achieved high levels of popularity and commercial success. The recent relaunch features Yungblud on the inaugural cover and focuses once again on rock and pop music and rock culture as a whole.


--- [Hit Parader - afka.net] ---
Hit Parader Hit Parader ceased publication after the release of December 2008 issue. [...] "Before returning to Britain I recorded some material with Frank Zappa, the leader of the Mothers of Invention, who is regarded as the leading light on the 'freak-out' scene in America. I cut one number called 'Another Side Of Life', which looks like it might escape in the U.S. shortly. [...] "Zappa is a very interesting character – about 28 years old. He makes these weird movies and puts the soundtracks on them himself. He showed me one of a guy picking spots on his leg, and another with a sequence taken by an infra-red camera of a guy necking with this typical Hollywood-blonde, all 'lip-sticky' and 'high-heely'. It's not meant to be entertaining so much as effective – and that it is! [...] Source: archive.org [...] Backing singer/organist Barry Goldberg on his Verve single, "Cotta Carry On," are lead guitarist Mike Bloomfield, rhythm guitarist Frank Zappa and the rhythm section from the Mothers. [...] Underneath all that wild hair and fierce-looking moustache and goatee, Frank Zappa is really a nice boy. The astute leader of the Mothers (of Invention) made a nice collage out of Hit Parader's ugly fingernail and pimple ads. [...] Source: archive.org page 18 Eric Burdon: "I listen to the Mothers of Invention a lot and I think they're fantastic. Frank Zappa, in particular, is really doing great things. If he doesn't become one of the major forces in pop music within the next two years, there's no justice in the business." page 44 The most amazing, outrageous and ambitious rock & roll group anywhere in the universe is The Mothers. Their music, best appreciated in-person, combines today's pop sounds with symphonic music, satire, the primitive rock & roll songs of the 1950's and social commentary, and you can even dance to it. (read more) On July 4, 1966, on what you might describe as a moment’s notice, I was asked to manufacture, on behalf of Tom Wilson, for the Animals, a musical organization from England, a set of arrangements. I was told: just go in there, tell the musicians what you want and they’ll play it. (read more) Source: slime.oofytv.set If you want to learn how to play guitar, listen to Wes Montgomery. You also should go out and see if you can get a record by Cecil Taylor if you want to learn how to play the piano. (read more) 1967 October Vol. 26 No. 40 Frank Zappa On Freedom By Frank Zappa, p 6 Hagstrom Guitars ad p 2 Absolutely Free ad p 5 Platter Chatter: Absolutely Free p 63 Moop ad p 67 It all stems from a system that was never designed to work. Our system is based on a lot of fallacies. Our moral code, for instance, from the Puritan era is basically wrong. No animal up to and including the human being was physically designed to live under that sort of a code. When these codes are strictly adhered to you come up with stunted, twisted fragments of society. (read more) page 63 ABSOLUTELY FREE by the Mothers (Of Invention) must be heard to be believed and appreciated. The music is incredibly dynamic, the lyrics irresistibly memorable. Each side of the record is a non-stop panoramic oratorio, songs drift in and out of a loosely connective narration, a theme from Stravinsky's "Rite Of Spring" appears unexpectedly, a plea for greater understanding between people and vegetables is often expressed. Dirty old men get theirs in "Brown Shoes Don't Make It", "America Drinks And Goes Home" is social satire with fistfights and ringing cash registers in the background, "Invocation and Ritual Dance Of The Young Pumpkin" is seven minutes of wild guitar and saxophone explorations tied to earth only by a rock-solid drumbeat, and we meet "The Son Of Suzy Creamcheese." The Mothers are a versatile and hard-driving rock band, and leader Frank Zappa is one of the most talented composers and arrangers living today. As Edgar Varèse once said, "The present-day composer refused to die!" Buy it. (VERVE V6-5013) Moop. Read more on Moop project – Cal Schenkel interview @ Seconds. The same ad was presented on Cal Schenkel's homepage www.ralf.com/oldcrap. 1967 December Vol. 26 No. 42 Hagstrom Guitars ad p 2 Brief notice on the Mothers coming to London p 23 Brief notice on the new Mothers album WOIIFTM p 47 United Mutation / Absolutely Free ad p 67 page 23 The Mothers (Of Invention) are coming to London for one big show at the Royal Albert Hall on September 23rd. Their manager Herb Cohen was in town recently to set it all up. "We'll fly in about five days beforehand so that we can get it together properly and rehearse extra musicians to augment the sound," he told me. page 47 The cover of the new Mothers album, "We're Only In It For The Money," is a hilarious take-off on both the Beatles "Sgt.Pepper" album cover and the famous photo of the Rolling Stones dressed as ladies with the wheel chair. The Beatles spelled their name with flowers. The Mothers used vegetables. Jimi Hendrix dropped into the photo studio and Frank Zappa put him next to a Christmas tree. Frank's pumpkin Gail is in the front row, in furs and blue gown, and the tall guy on the left is Tom Wilson, the Mothers record producer. It's a great cover. Source: slime.oofytv.set Although the Mothers have been in existence for about three years, the project was carefully planned about four and a half years ago. I had been looking for the right people for a long time. (read more) page 46 Eric Clapton sat in with the Mothers at a Shrine Auditorium concert in Los Angeles... page 47 Frank Zappa bought the mansion of old movie cowboy Tom Mix. Included is a large cabin with Tom's horse buried underneath. Zappa claims that no one appreciates the Mothers. He wants to change their name to Reuben & The Jets and play greasy 1950's rock and roll. Frank's "Lumpy Gravy" album is great. CRUISING WITH RUBEN & THE JETS is the Mothers recording under a different name in a last ditch attempt to get their music on the radio. We have here a of "love songs of simplicity." It's certainly a curious trip into nostalgic regression, yet Zappa uses the doo-wop, bass profundo, high tenor harmony with painful accuracy as well as modernizing the basic dynamics. If you're old enough to digging the Spaniels and the Valentines and perhaps indulged in a bit of men's room crooning yourself, you'll laugh your head off over this album. The music is a satire on the way of life that produced going steady and breaking up. Zappa and Ray Collins wrote all the gems here and the lyrics are masterful recreations of kicks and anxienty ... "bop, like a spinning top" ... "down the street, heart skips a beat" ... " Fountain of love" ... "Love of my life, I love you so" ... "When I'm dancing with Desiri, all the boys are jealous of me." Looking back now, the adults who knocked rock didn't have the slightest idea what was going on. That "horrible" music served a purpose more important than we'll ever know and Zappa's loving treatment of it drives the point home. A question. What do modern teenagers think of this album? Also, you mustn't miss Ruben Sano's high shool yearook mug and story of the Jets on the back of this album A real sharp, fine album loaded with class from Frank Zappa's very own Bizarre productiona. (Verve V6 5055-X) Page 18 Essentially, I left the Mothers for the same reason. When I first joined, we were playing stomping R&B all night long (generally, we were working ﬁve set a night club dates at that time). However, when Frank was putting together the first album, he started teaching the band harmony parts. etc. to compliment the lines he had been playing himself in the clubs. This was all fine and dandy (Frank's genius as a composer and arranger has certainly become evident), but for me, playing these exacting, precise parts, which lacked (my) spontaneous emotional attack, represented a giant step in the direction of my becoming a paunchy studio musician who'd play anything for a buck. So, we had an amicable parting, and in the long run, I'm sure we're both happy it happened that way. Page 20 The pop record that really ﬂipped me out was "Help" by the Beatles I bought in Pomona, Calif. when I was making in a beer bar. This was where I really got to talk to and know Frank Zappa (he's got some roots!) although I'd met him and Capt. Beefheart briefly at a jam session at the Sea Witch in Hollywood a couple of years before. I'd actually gone to the record shop that day to buy a copy of "Together Again" by Buck Owens, and to look for old out of print R&B 45s (Zappa had already cleaned them out though). Source: Javier Marcote, Sea Witch Sunset Strip 1970 April Vol. 29 No. 69 What Ever Happened To The Mothers Of Invention? By Frank Zappa, pp 23-25 Hot Rats ad p 47 The Mothers of Invention, the infamous & repulsive rocking teen combo, is not doing concerts any more. (read more ) PS. Added nice picture of Moondog conducting, from page 35. Moondog's producer was James William Guarcio, who briefly was a member of The Mothers of Invention. HP: When did you first start writing with classical music in mind? ZAPPA: The first thing I ever wrote was a drum solo ... a piece for snare drum and it was called "Mice". I wrote that when I was about 14 and performed it at school – you know they have these little instrumental compositions. (read more)


--- [Hit Parader Magazine, Bob Dylan front cover] ---
Started by Charlton Publication Inc. (in 1943), this was one of the oldest continually published music magazines in USA (after SONG HITS, BILLBOARD and DOWN BEAT). From its inception until about 1975 (when it became too expensive to license the rights), it published the lyrics to many popular songs of the time. Printed on newspaper stock (with a glossy cover) until the 1980s, this mag contained many small feature articles about your favorite artists. HIT PARADER's publisher, Charlton, located in tiny Derby, Connecticut, was a true music-mag empire. They put out numerous popular titles, including COUNTRY SONG ROUND UP, SONG HITS and SMASH HITS. HIT PARADER was sold in 1991, when Charlton ran into financial troubles and folded. Since 1984, the magazine, like so many other music publications, catered largely to hard rock and heavy metal fans. HIT PARADER ceased publication after the release of December 2008 issue. Thank you to Eric Galzi for the improved images. January 1966 | October 1966 | November 1966 | March 1967 | June 1968, 3 pages ('Impressions of Bob Dylan', by Mike Bloomfield) | 1968 Yearbook | November 1969, 4 pages |


--- [HIT PARADER, 2 ISSUES, ROCK FAN MAGAZINE. APRIL & MARCH 1979 ... - eBay] ---
Picture 1 of 5 Gallery Picture 1 of 5 HIT PARADER, 2 ISSUES, ROCK FAN MAGAZINE. APRIL & MARCH 1979. AEROSMITH/BOST ON. US $10.87or Best Offer Ends in 6d 10h Condition: “VERY GOOD FOR 47 YEARS OLD.” Oops! Looks like we're having trouble connecting to our server. Refresh your browser window to try again. Shipping: US $21.32 eBay International Shipping. Located in: Auburn, WA, United States Import fees: Est. US $0.00Final at checkout Delivery: Estimated between Tue, Mar 31 and Mon, Apr 13 to 60388 Returns: 30 days returns. Buyer pays for return shipping. If you use an eBay shipping label, it will be deducted from your refund amount. Payments: Special financing available. Learn more- for PayPal Credit, opens in a new window or tab Shop with confidence About this item Seller assumes all responsibility for this listing. eBay item number:198150256852 Item specifics - Condition - Very Good - Seller Notes - “VERY GOOD FOR 47 YEARS OLD.” - Publication Month - March, April - Publication Year - 1979 - Publication Frequency - Monthly - Language - English - Publication Name - Hit Parader - Features - Illustrated - Genre - Celebrity, Fashion, History, Lifestyle, Music - Publisher - CHARLTON PUBLICATIONS - Topic - Rock - Country of Origin - United States Item description from the seller Seller feedback (189) - t***m (671)- Feedback left by buyer.Past monthVerified purchaseAs described, arrived well packed with fast shipping. I couldn’t be happier 👍🏻 - o***l (919)- Feedback left by buyer.Past monthVerified purchaseTwo nice comics. Description was right on. Shipped fast and well packaged. Thank you - r***i (305)- Feedback left by buyer.Past yearVerified purchaseGreat condition! Very happy with everything from Purchase to packaging to timing of shipment! Top notch seller! Thank you!CONVERSE WOMENS RED ALL STAR LOW TOP SNEAKER SIZE 10. NICE!! (#197638439451) - 8***8 (817)- Feedback left by buyer.Past monthVerified purchaseGreat coffee cup, super quick delivery, A++ seller. Go Hawks! - d***j (119)- Feedback left by buyer.Past monthVerified purchaseFair price and looks exactly like the photo. - n***s (7284)- Feedback left by buyer.Past yearVerified purchaseThis user doesn't know how to use tape. It was sent in a Trader Joes Cookie box and didn't seal all the sides of the packaging with protection tape. How much more can this seller be so cheap on tape. The item arrived opened on one end. I will not do business with this user ever again.CHER "D2K TOUR 2014" XL CONCERT T-SHIRT. B&W, FEATHER HEAD DRESS. (#197421778491) - m***e (42)- Feedback left by buyer.Past yearVerified purchaseExactly as described! Fast Shipping! Happy with the value of my purchase. Packaging arrived intact.ELTON JOHN "ROCKET MAN" T-SHIRT XL 2019 (DISTRESSED LOOK) (#197267847138) - 9***0 (17074)- Feedback left by buyer.Past monthVerified purchaseVery good, fast shipping, thank you More to explore : - Hit Parader 1940-1979 Magazines, - Hit Parader Magazines, - Music Hit Parader Special Issue Magazines, - Hit Parader Annual 1940-1979 Magazines, - Hit Parader Monthly 1940-1979 Magazines, - Hit Parader Music Magazines, - Hit Parader Monthly Magazines, - Hit Parader Subscriptionless Magazines, - Hit Parader 2000-Now Magazines, - Music Hit Parader Monthly Magazines


--- [Hit Parader - Zappa Wiki Jawaka] ---
Hit Parader "Started by Charlton Publication Inc. (in 1943), this is one of the oldest continually published music magazines in world (after Song Hits, Billboard, and DownBeat). From its inception until about 1975 (when it became too expensive to license the rights), it published the lyrics to many popular songs of the time. (...) Printed on newspaper stock (with a glossy cover) until the 1980s, this mag contained many small feature articles about your favorite artists. Hit Parader's publisher, Charlton, located in tiny Derby, Connecticut, was a true music-mag empire. They put out numerous popular titles, including Country Song Round-Up, Song Hits, and Smash Hits. Hit Parader was sold in 1991, when Charlton ran into financial troubles and folded. (...) Since 1984, the magazine, like so many other music publications, caters largely to hard rock and heavy metal fans."
