=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[1999 All-Africa Games - Wikipedia]
The 7th All-Africa Games (Zulu: imiDlalo yesi-7 yase-Afrika; Afrikaans: 7de Afrika-Spele), also known as Johannesburg 1999 (Zulu: eGoli 1999), was a sport event held from 10 to 19 September 1999, in Greater Johannesburg, South Africa. 53 countries participated in eighteen sports.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/1999_All-Africa_Games

[V-E Day: Victory in Europe - The National WWII Museum]
The flags of freedom fly over all Europe," Truman said. Truman designated May 8 as V-E Day and most of the Western Allies followed suit. The Soviets, however, designated May 9 as V-E Day or Soviet Victory Day, based on the document signed in Berlin. News of Germany's surrender ignited joyous celebrations in cities across the world.
URL: https://www.nationalww2museum.org/war/topics/v-e-day-victory-europe

[Football at the 1999 All-Africa Games]
The football tournament was held in Johannesburg, South Africa between 9–19 September 1999 as part of the 1999 All-Africa Games.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Football_at_the_1999_All-Africa_Games

[South Africa win the most medals at the 7th All African Games]
Sep 18, 1999 · By 18 September South Africa had gained the most medals on the log with 180, followed by Egypt with 156 medals and Nigeria with 128 medals. The closing ceremony of the games was on 19 September.
URL: https://www.sahistory.org.za/dated-event/south-africa-win-most-medals-7th-all-african-games

[D-Day: The Allies Invade Europe - The National WWII Museum]
D-Day: The Allies Invade Europe In May 1944, the Western Allies were finally prepared to deliver their greatest blow of the war, the long-delayed, cross-channel invasion of northern France, code-named Overlord.
URL: https://www.nationalww2museum.org/war/articles/d-day-allies-invade-europe


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [1999 All-Africa Games - Wikipedia] ---
The 7th All-Africa Games (Zulu: imiDlalo yesi-7 yase-Afrika; Afrikaans: 7de Afrika-Spele), also known as Johannesburg 1999 (Zulu: eGoli 1999), was a sport event held from 10  to 19 September 1999, in Greater Johannesburg, South Africa. 53 countries participated in eighteen sports. Netball was included as a demonstration sport.
The South Africans hosted about 25,000 visitors including 6,000 athletes and 3,000 officials from throughout the continent. The opening ceremony included dancing, African parables and Zulu warriors. Due to the size of the used props, the ceremony was staged in an arena with less than 15,000 spectators.
South Africa, which had lost its bid to Greece for the 2004 Olympic Games, was hoping to impress FIFA in the hope of landing the 2006 World Cup. It eventually got the 2010 edition. Overall the games were a success, with hosts South Africa outdistancing Nigeria and Egypt in the medals race.
Typical problems at the games included 600 children contracting food poisoning after being fed boxed lunches at the practice session for the Opening Ceremonies, striking laborers demonstrating outside games venues, displaying placards which read "No Wages, No All Africa Games." Women's field hockey was demoted to a non-medal event after the Nigerian team dropped out of the tournament. A melee at the finish of the basketball game between Angola and Egypt forced police to escort the Egyptian team from the court. Haile Gebrselassie, the world record holder in the 5,000 and 10,000 meter runs opted out of the games for health reasons, depriving the games organizers of one of the biggest drawing cards of the games.
Despite the difficulties experienced, IOC President Juan Antonio Samaranch, praised South Africa's organization of the Games, saying "this shows that you can organize big events."
Olympic stars Maria de Lurdes Mutola (athletics-800 m), Penny Heyns (swimming), Gete Wami (athletics, 10000 m) all starred in the women's events. South African pole vaulter Okkert Brits won his second African Games gold medal. Assefa Mezgebu of Ethiopia won the men's 10000 m.
Cameroon beat Zambia 4-3 on penalty kicks to win the football finale.




--- [V-E Day: Victory in Europe - The National WWII Museum] ---
In the Spring of 1945, Allied forces were converging on Germany from East and West. As they crossed into Germany, advancing soldiers encountered fierce resistance, cities devastated by bombing, and horrific evidence of Nazi crimes. Seeing the looming collapse of his regime, Nazi dictator Adolf Hitler took his own life on April 30, 1945. Within days, his successors surrendered unconditionally to Allied forces. On May 7, 1945, the Chief of Staff of the German Armed Forces High Command, Alfred Jodl, surrendered at General Dwight D. Eisenhower’s Allied headquarters in Reims. At the ceremony in which Jodl signed the Act of Military Surrender were representatives of the major Allied powers who also signed: France, the United Kingdom, the Soviet Union, and the United States. At Soviet request, another surrender document with few significant changes was signed in Berlin on May 8, 1945, by German Field Marshal Wilhelm Keitel, bringing a formal end to nearly six years of bloody fighting in Europe. Victory in Europe American President Harry Truman, who had only assumed the presidency weeks prior following the death of Franklin D. Roosevelt, addressed the nation by radio to announce Germany's surrender. "General Eisenhower informs me that the forces of Germany have surrendered to the United Nations. The flags of freedom fly over all Europe," Truman said. Truman designated May 8 as V-E Day and most of the Western Allies followed suit. The Soviets, however, designated May 9 as V-E Day or Soviet Victory Day, based on the document signed in Berlin. News of Germany's surrender ignited joyous celebrations in cities across the world. In New York City, church bells tolled and car horns sounded as 250,000 soldiers, sailors, and civilians gathered in Times Square to sing and celebrate. Across the nation, expressions of joy were accompanied by moments of Thanksgiving and somber reflection. People flocked to houses of worship to give thanks for the victory and pray for a swift end to the war in the Pacific. "This is Your Victory" In the United Kingdom, May 8, 1945, was declared a national holiday. But the people did not wait to celebrate. Instead, they packed pubs and lit bonfires the night before. Restaurants created special victory menus, and the Ministry of Food made sure there were sufficient beer supplies in London. Winston Churchill addressed the cheering crowds on V-E Day saying, "This is your victory." But the crowds shouted back at him, "No, it's yours." V-E Day, however, did not mark the final Allied victory. On the island of Okinawa, American forces marked V-E Day by firing a barrage of artillery rounds at Japanese positions at midnight. It was a grim reminder that while fighting had ceased in one theater, World War II still raged in the Pacific. Episode 4: Victory in Europe May to July 1945: Germany surrenders. The war in Europe is over, but the fighting in the Pacific rages on. America prepares to test the most fearsome weapon ever created.


--- [Football at the 1999 All-Africa Games] ---
The 1999 All-Africa Games football tournament was the 7th edition of the African Games men's football tournament. The football tournament was held in Johannesburg, South Africa between 9–19 September 1999 as part of the 1999 All-Africa Games.


--- [South Africa win the most medals at the 7th All African Games] ---
No content


--- [D-Day: The Allies Invade Europe - The National WWII Museum] ---
In May 1944, the Western Allies were finally prepared to deliver their greatest blow of the war, the long-delayed, cross-channel invasion of northern France, code-named Overlord. General Dwight D. Eisenhower was supreme commander of the operation that ultimately involved the coordinated efforts of 12 nations. After much deliberation, it was decided that the landings would take place on the long, sloping beaches of Normandy. There, the Allies would have the element of surprise. The German high command expected the attack to come in the Pas de Calais region, north of the river Seine where the English Channel is narrowest. It was here that Adolf Hitler had put the bulk of his panzer divisions after being tipped off by Allied undercover agents posing as German sympathizers that the invasion would take place in the Pas de Calais. Surprise was an essential element of the Allied invasion plan. If the Germans had known where and when the Allies were coming they would have hurled them back into the sea with the 55 divisions they had in France. The invaders would have been on the offensive with a 10-to-1 manpower ratio against them. The challenges of mounting a successful landing were daunting. The English Channel was notorious for its rough seas and unpredictable weather, and the enemy had spent months constructing the Atlantic Wall, a 2,400-mile line of obstacles. This defensive wall comprised 6.5 million mines, thousands of concrete bunkers and pillboxes containing heavy and fast-firing artillery, tens of thousands of tank ditches, and other formidable beach obstacles. And the German army would be dug in on the cliffs overlooking the American landing beaches. At the Tehran Conference in August 1943, Allied leaders scheduled Overlord to take no later than May 1, 1944. In the meantime, they prepared ceaselessly for the attack. Trucks, tanks, and tens of thousands of troops poured into England. “We were getting ready for one of the biggest adventures of our lives,” an American sergeant said. “We couldn’t wait.” Meanwhile, the American and British air forces in England conducted a tremendous bombing campaign that targeted railroad bridges and roadways in northern France to prevent the Germans from bringing in reserves to stop the invasion. After General Dwight D. Eisenhower was appointed Supreme Commander, he and General Sir Bernard L. Montgomery modified the plan, expanding the size of the beachhead and the number of divisions in the initial assault. This, led Allied leaders to set June 5, 1944, as the invasion’s D-Day. But on the morning of June 4, meteorologists predicted foul weather over the English Channel on the 5th, leading Eisenhower to postpone the attack for 24 hours. The delay was unnerving for soldiers, sailors, and airmen, but when meteorologists forecast a brief window of clearer weather over the channel on June 6, Eisenhower made the decision to go. It was one of the gutsiest decisions of the war. Just after midnight on June 6, Allied airborne troops began dropping behind enemy lines. Their job was to blow up bridges, sabotage railroad lines, and take other measures to prevent the enemy from rushing reinforcements to the invasion beaches. Hours later, the largest amphibious landing force ever assembled began moving through the storm-tossed waters toward the beaches. Most of the Americans were packed into flat-bottomed Higgins boats launched from troop transports 10 miles from the French coastline. Vomit filled the bottom of the boats, and as water kept rushing in over the gunwales, the green-faced men had to bail this vile stew with their helmets. Though it was cold, the men were sweating. Planners had divided the landing zone into five separate beaches. The Americans landed at Utah and Omaha beaches. The British and Canadians landed at Gold, Juno, and Sword beaches. The fiercest fighting was on Omaha Beach where the enemy was positioned on steep cliffs that commanded the long, flat shoreline. Troops leapt from their landing boats and were pinned down for hours by murderous machine-gun fire that turned the beach into a vast killing field. “If you (stayed) there you were going to die,” Lieutenant Colonel Bill Friedman said. “We just had to . . . try to get to the bottom of the cliffs on which the Germans had mounted their defenses.” By midday, the Americans had surmounted the cliffs and taken Omaha Beach at a heavy cost: over 2,400 killed, wounded, or missing out of the total of approximately 34,000 who came ashore that day, a loss rate of more than 7 percent. By nightfall, about 160,000 Allied troops were ashore with nearly a million more men on the way that summer. The Normandy invasion was one of great turning points of twentieth-century history. An immense army was placed in Nazi-occupied Europe, never to be dislodged. Germany was threatened that same month by a tremendous Soviet invasion from the east that would reach the gates of Berlin by the following April. The way to appreciate D-Day’s importance is to contemplate what would have happened if it had failed. Another landing would not have been possible for at least a year. This would have given Hitler time to strengthen the Atlantic Wall, harass England with the newly developed V-1 flying bombs and V-2 rockets, continue to develop jet aircraft and other so-called “miracle weapons,” and finish off his killing campaign against ethnic and sexual undesirables. Cite this article: MLA Citation: APA Citation: Chicago Style Citation:
