=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Isa Genzken - Wikipedia]
To pay her tuition, Genzken worked part-time as a model. [2][3] In 1973 she transferred to Arts Academy Düsseldorf while also studying art history and philosophy at the University of Cologne. [5] At the academy, fellow students included artists Katharina Fritsch and Thomas Struth. [5] Upon graduating in 1977, Genzken taught sculpture at the ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Isa_Genzken

[Isa Genzken - Artworks & Biography | David Zwirner]
Born in Bad Oldesloe, Germany, Genzken studied fine arts, art history, and philosophy in Hamburg, Berlin, and Cologne, before completing her studies at Kunstakademie Düsseldorf in 1977.
URL: https://www.davidzwirner.com/artists/isa-genzken

[MCA - Isa Genzken: Retrospective | Museum of Contemporary Art Chicago]
MCA Isa Genzken Retrospective Museum of Contemporary Art Chicago. Isa Genzken is one of the most important and influential sculptors of our time. Her work has had a steady presence in the mainstream of AmericanEuropean artistic discourse since she began exhibiting.
URL: https://mcachicago.org/Exhibitions/2014/Isa-Genzken-Retrospective

[The artist Isa Genzken: A life dedicated to art, with few compromises]
Oct 26, 2023 · After graduating from high school, Genzken initially studied painting at the Hamburg University of Fine Arts from 1968 to 1971, then art history and philosophy at the University of Cologne from 1972, photography and graphic design in Berlin in 1973, and art at the Düsseldorf Art Academy until 1977.
URL: https://www.kunstplaza.de/en/artist/artist-isa-genzken-lives-for-art/

[Isa Genzken - 2019 Laureate - Nasher Sculpture Center]
Genzken studied fine arts, art history, and philosophy in Hamburg, Berlin, and Cologne before completing her studies at the Academy of Fine Arts in Düsseldorf in 1977.
URL: https://www.nashersculpturecenter.org/programs-events/nasher-prize/laureates/laureate/id/111


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Isa Genzken - Wikipedia] ---
Isa Genzken (born 27 November 1948) is a German artist who lives and works in Berlin. Her primary media are sculpture and installation, using a wide variety of materials, including concrete, plaster, wood and textile. She also works with photography, video, film and collage.


--- [Isa Genzken - Artworks & Biography | David Zwirner] ---
Isa Genzken Over more than five decades, Isa Genzken (b. 1948) has incessantly probed the shifting boundaries between art, design, architecture, technology, and the individual. Her prodigious oeuvre frequently incorporates seemingly disparate materials and imagery to create complex, enigmatic works that interrogate the impact of our increasingly commodified and interconnected culture on our everyday lives. Learn MoreSurvey Exhibitions Explore Exhibitions Artist News Biography Isa Genzken. Photo by Uwe Epping Over more than five decades, Isa Genzken (b. 1948) has incessantly probed the shifting boundaries between art, design, architecture, technology, and the individual. Her prodigious oeuvre frequently incorporates seemingly disparate materials and imagery to create complex, enigmatic works that range in media, including sculpture, painting, collage, drawing, film, and photography. Deeply attuned to both the legacies of the twentieth-century avant-garde and the materials and forms of twenty-first-century global society, Genzken’s work viscerally interrogates the impact of our increasingly commodified and interconnected culture on our everyday lives. Born in Bad Oldesloe, Germany, Genzken studied fine arts, art history, and philosophy in Hamburg, Berlin, and Cologne, before completing her studies at Kunstakademie Düsseldorf in 1977. Her first institutional solo exhibition was held in 1978 at the Kabinett für aktuelle Kunst in Bremerhaven, Germany. Genzken’s work has been the subject of many major museum exhibitions, including traveling surveys organized by the Rheinisches Landesmuseum, Bonn, Germany (1988; traveled to Kunstmuseum Winterthur, Switzerland; Museum Boijmans Van Beuningen, Rotterdam, both 1989); The Renaissance Society at the University of Chicago (1992; traveled to Portikus, Frankfurt; Palais des Beaux-Arts, Brussels; Städtisches Galerie im Lenbachhaus, Munich, all 1993); Museum Abteiberg, Mönchengladbach, Germany (2002; traveled to Kunsthalle Zürich, 2003); and Whitechapel Gallery, London (2009; traveled to Museum Ludwig, Cologne). Other venues which have hosted important solo exhibitions include the Kunstverein Braunschweig, Germany (2000); Museum Ludwig, Cologne (2002; organized by the Gesellschaft für Moderne Kunst on the occasion of the artist receiving the Wolfgang Hahn Prize); Camden Arts Centre, London; Galerie im Taxispalais, Innsbruck; Secession, Vienna (all 2006); and Museion, Bolzano, Italy (2010). In 2013, The Museum of Modern Art, New York, organized Genzken’s first American museum survey, Isa Genzken: Retrospective, making it the most comprehensive presentation of her work to date, encompassing all media from the past forty years. The show traveled to the Museum of Contemporary Art Chicago and the Dallas Museum of Art in 2014. Also in 2014, Isa Genzken: New Works was presented at the Museum der Moderne Salzburg, Austria, and subsequently traveled to the Museum für Moderne Kunst, Frankfurt. In 2015, an extensive survey of Genzken’s work was presented by the Stedelijk Museum, Amsterdam. The show traveled to Martin-Gropius-Bau, Berlin in 2016. In 2019, Kunsthalle Bern in Switzerland presented a solo exhibition of the artist’s work. In 2020–2021, Kunstmuseum Basel | Gegenwart presented the exhibition Isa Genzken: Works 1973–1983, which traveled to Kunstsammlung Nordrhein-Westfalen, Düsseldorf. Also at Kunstsammlung Nordrhein-Westfalen, Isa Genzken: Here and Now was on view in 2021. In 2023, Neue Nationalgalerie, Berlin, presented Isa Genzken: 75/75 and, in 2026, Isa Genzken: World Receiver opened at Den Frie in Copenhagen. In 2017, Genzken received the Goslarer Kaiserring (or the “Emperor’s Ring”) award from the city of Goslar, Germany. An accompanying solo exhibition was on view at the Mönchehaus Museum Goslar. The artist is also the recipient of the 2019 Nasher Prize, awarded every April by the Nasher Sculpture Center, in Dallas. Her work has been prominently featured in international biennials and group exhibitions such as documenta (1982, 1992, and 2002); Skulptur Projekte Münster (1987, 1997, and 2007); and the Venice Biennale (1982, 1993, 2003, 2007, and 2015), where she represented Germany in 2007. Since 2004, her work has been represented by David Zwirner. In March 2026, a solo presentation of Genzken’s work will open at the gallery’s Tribeca location in New York. In 2021, the artist had a solo exhibition at the gallery's Hong Kong location, and in 2020 a solo exhibition at the gallery's Paris location. Previous solo exhibitions have been held at the gallery in New York in 2005, 2007, 2015, and 2018. Work by the artist is represented in museum and public collections worldwide, including the Dallas Museum of Art; Gemeentemuseum, The Hague; Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, Washington, DC; Museum Boijmans Van Beuningen, Rotterdam; Museum of Contemporary Art Chicago; Museum of Contemporary Art, Los Angeles; The Museum of Modern Art, New York; Museum Ludwig, Cologne; Städtische Galerie im Lenbachhaus, Munich; Stedelijk Museum, Amsterdam; and the Van Abbemuseum, Eindhoven. Genzken lives and works in Berlin. Selected Press Selected Titles Request more information


--- [MCA - Isa Genzken: Retrospective | Museum of Contemporary Art Chicago] ---
Isa Genzken: Retrospective Featured Images About Isa Genzken is one of the most important and influential sculptors of our time. Yet, although she had a solo show at Chicago's Renaissance Society, in 1992, she has never had a large-scale retrospective in an American museum. This exhibition of work by the Berlin-based German artist, organized jointly by MCA Chicago, the Museum of Modern Art in New York, and the Dallas Museum of Art, seeks to correct that oversight, introducing American audiences to the breadth of Genzken's 30-plus-year career. Her work has had a steady presence in the mainstream of American-European artistic discourse since she began exhibiting in the late 1970s, appearing regularly in solo shows in major galleries and museums as well as grand international group shows such as the Venice Biennale and Documenta. Her early work was initially in dialogue with minimalism but quickly spiraled out into ideas about hybridity and what has come to be known as the “post-medium” condition, a blurring of traditional distinctions between media such as painting, sculpture, and photography. Genzken’s way of working could be compared to the multiplicity of approaches found in the paintings of Gerhard Richter and Sigmar Polke or the related efforts of James Welling in photography, yet, unlike those artists, Genzken cannot be defined by a single medium or tradition and has made compelling and influential contributions in numerous fields. It is difficult to pinpoint any artist working in this period who has pursued such an intentionally varied path, and in recent years, a new generation of artists, curators, and art lovers has been inspired by her radical inventiveness. The past decade has been particularly productive for Genzken, who has taken her interest in found objects and collage and created several bodies of work that have redefined assemblage for a new era. These works, which range from smaller, diorama-like works to room-filling installations, incorporate photographs, kitschy souvenirs, pop culture cast-offs, cheap household products, and high-end design objects, obliterating any hierarchy of value between them as they are combined into powerfully evocative statements that are immediately recognizable as Genzken’s. This exhibition encompasses Genzken’s work in all media, produced over the past four decades. Despite Genzken’s influence on an international array of sculptors working today, the breadth of her achievements—which include not only provocative assemblages but also paintings, photographs, collages, artist’s books, performances, films, and public sculptures—has remained obscure in the United States, and many of the works in this exhibition will be on view in Chicago for the first time. The exhibition and accompanying catalogue secure Genzken’s legacy as a transgenerational force in international contemporary art. This exhibition is organized by James W. Alsdorf Chief Curator Michael Darling, Museum of Contemporary Art Chicago; former Chief Curator Sabine Breitwieser, Department of Media and Performance Art, and Curator Laura Hoptman, Department of Painting and Sculpture, the Museum of Modern Art (MoMA), New York; and Hoffman Family Senior Curator of Contemporary Art Jeffrey Grove, Dallas Museum of Art, with Curatorial Assistant Stephanie Weber, Department of Media and Performance Art, MoMA. Installation Images Installation view, Isa Genzken: Retrospective, MCA Chicago, Apr 12–Aug 3, 2014 Photo: Nathan Keay, © MCA ChicagoIsa Genzken, Weltempfänger (World Receiver), 1988–89. Private collection. © Isa Genzken. Installation view, Isa Genzken: Retrospective, MCA Chicago, Apr 12–Aug 3, 2014 Photo: Nathan Keay, © MCA ChicagoInstallation view, Isa Genzken: Retrospective, MCA Chicago, Apr 12–Aug 3, 2014 Photo: Nathan Keay, © MCA ChicagoInstallation view, Isa Genzken: Retrospective, MCA Chicago, Apr 12–Aug 3, 2014 Photo: Nathan Keay, © MCA ChicagoInstallation view, Isa Genzken: Retrospective, MCA Chicago, Apr 12–Aug 3, 2014 Photo: Nathan Keay, © MCA ChicagoInstallation view, Isa Genzken: Retrospective, MCA Chicago, Apr 12–Aug 3, 2014 Photo: Nathan Keay, © MCA ChicagoInstallation view, Isa Genzken: Retrospective, MCA Chicago, Apr 12–Aug 3, 2014 Photo: Nathan Keay, © MCA ChicagoInstallation view, Isa Genzken: Retrospective, MCA Chicago, Apr 12–Aug 3, 2014 Photo: Nathan Keay, © MCA ChicagoInstallation view, Isa Genzken: Retrospective, MCA Chicago, Apr 12–Aug 3, 2014 Photo: Nathan Keay, © MCA ChicagoInstallation view, Isa Genzken: Retrospective, MCA Chicago, Apr 12–Aug 3, 2014 Photo: Nathan Keay, © MCA ChicagoFunding Isa Genzken: Retrospective is organized by the Museum of Contemporary Art Chicago, the Museum of Modern Art, New York, and the Dallas Museum of Art. Lead support for the Chicago presentation of this exhibition is provided by Kenneth and Anne Griffin, Howard and Donna Stone, and Helen and Sam Zell. Major support is provided by The Bluhm Family Foundation, Stefan Edlis and Gael Neeson, Andrea and Jim Gordon, and Margot and George Greig. Additional generous support is provided by Christie's; the Jacques and Natasha Gelman Trust; Hauser & Wirth; David Zwirner, New York; Julie and Larry Bernstein; Anne and William J. Hokin; Sylvia Neil and Daniel Fischel; David Teiger; Galerie Buchholz, Berlin/Cologne, Daniel Buchholz and Christopher Müller; the Goethe-Institut and the Foreign Office of the Federal Republic of Germany; Agnes Gund; neugerriemschneider, berlin; the Graham Foundation for Advanced Studies in the Fine Arts; Lois and Steve Eisen and the Eisen Family Foundation; Martin Modahl; Mary Ittelson; Helyn Goldenberg and Michael Alper; Mari and Peter Shaw; Melissa Weber and Jay Dandy; Ashlee Jacob; and Contemporary Art Partners. Official Airline of the Museum of Contemporary Art Chicago


--- [The artist Isa Genzken: A life dedicated to art, with few compromises] ---
The artist Isa Genzken: A life dedicated to art, with few compromises Isa Hanne-Rose Genzken is a German artist with a tremendous international reputation who has lived and worked in Berlin (and very often in New York) for decades. Born in 1948, she will turn 70 in 2018 (on November 27th), marking nearly half a century of artistic creation. Show table of contents Internationally acclaimed German artist For the German art world, Isa Genzken has been the “most internationally celebrated German artist” for several years; however, some of these art experts only discovered a body of work a few decades later that deserves increased attention from connoisseurs of contemporary art since the 1960s/70s. Anyone who dismisses this as unbelievable should, for example, realize that the completely new information and communication world of the internet has existed for almost 20 years, but this fact only became apparent to our traditional media quite recently… Furthermore, there are several reasons why Isa Genzken is among those artists who are vastly underrated in the public eye. Engaging with Isa Genzken and her work is absolutely worthwhile for every art lover; there is a great deal to discover in her art. Isa Genzken's departure into the world of art Isa Genzken's entry into the world of art was already decisive and, towards the end, unusually consistent: Isa Genzken was born in 1948, shortly after the Second World War, into a family with a sense of art and culture. The father was a doctor, the mother worked in the pharmaceutical industry but had attended drama school; the family lived in Schleswig-Holstein in the peaceful town of Bad Oldesloe, near Lübeck and the famous Timmendorf Baltic Sea beach. The former spa town in this prime location, where even the town hall (with its Goose Girl fountain, bit.ly/2BK6af3 ) and the tax office ( bit.ly/2A0hwv3 ) appear charming and inviting, offered ideal conditions for a wonderful (early) childhood. Her family background may have contributed as well; there were even said to be real grandparents who were interested in their grandchildren, with whom Isa Genzken is believed to have had a close relationship. In 1960, the Genzken family moved to Berlin, placing 12-year-old Isa Genzken right in the heart of the events of the time, and from the construction of the Berlin Wall in August 1961 onward, a very central location for these events. But Isa Genzken was never limited to a German perspective; she traveled to New York for the first time in her early teens to visit her aunts living in Midtown Manhattan (from the late 1960s to the present day, Genzken has been to New York almost every year, sometimes for stays lasting several months). Genzken began drawing in 1966; at this time she also met the art historian, publicist and exhibition curator Benjamin HD Buchloh, who was a few years older and lived in Berlin at the time, later to teach art history at Harvard University in Cambridge, MA, and who competently and critically accompanied Genzken's work throughout her life. After graduating from high school, Genzken initially studied painting at the Hamburg University of Fine Arts from 1968 to 1971, then art history and philosophy at the University of Cologne from 1972, photography and graphic design in Berlin in 1973, and art at the Düsseldorf Art Academy until 1977. Surrounded by teachers and fellow students who had shaped or were yet to shape the German art world (Marcel Broodthaers, Benjamin Buchloh, Gerhard Richter , Gregor Stemmrich, Joseph Beuys , Katharina Fritsch, Blinky Palermo , Thomas Struth, to name just a few), she achieved a premium degree that qualified her to attend a master class; in this case, the master class of Gerhard Richter. From her beginnings in the cosmopolitan province, Isa Genzken's interest in art and her art education had thus continuously led her closer and closer to the heart of the German art scene. What was certainly not meant at the time Berlin (which, although it already had quite a lot of sex appeal in 1973, was also cut off from the rest of the world and, at least in a sense, even further away from the honors of being the capital), but rather Düsseldorf, determinedly on its way to becoming fashionable and achieving higher artistic acclaim. Perhaps because Isa Genzken wanted to delve deeper into the heart of the art world, she wisely married the man who, in the not-too-distant future, would almost single-handedly keep the heart of the German art scene beating for most Germans: her professor Gerhard Richter (at the time of the wedding in 1982, not yet quite on the art Olympus, but well on his way). Marriage to Gerhard Richter and divorce This relationship failed in 1993, which is why the marriage ended in divorce in 1994 (around 10 years seems to be a good average period for the “disenchantment” to occur when a woman marries the first man who really impressed her). Isa Genzken had difficulties with the divorce and afterwards, but remained busy in the art world and soon moved back to her old hometown of Berlin. Even back then, there was plenty for artists to do: Berlin had shaken itself up a bit after the fall of the Berlin Wall, but from the beginning of the 1990s onwards, it was increasingly on its way to becoming a city of independent artists. Therefore, there is no need to discuss divorce and related topics in more detail today, not only because there is probably nothing new to add: A search for “Isa Genzken” + “divorce” yields plenty of articles where you can find detailed information about the nature and duration of this divorce and its consequences. So we'll spare you the “touching insights” into the life of “the otherwise extremely publicity-shy artist,” and you haven't found the right platform for a more in-depth exploration of the topic of coping with separation. Instead, take a look at Isa Genzken shortly after her marriage and her painting of “Master Gerhard” (circa 1983) on moma.org and consider how seriously the work and public persona of the (at that time 35-year-old) artist are meant to be taken… and follow with appropriate cynicism the short but fascinating observation about search engine parallel universes and media-driven divorce scandals: Isa Genzken and the online media An internet search for “Isa Genzken” + “divorce” yields 558 results across 10 pages in the most popular search engine. With an average of 10 websites per page, this translates to approximately 5,600 articles about the artist's life-changing experience. However, the number of results appears to be 558, as it gradually decreases as you browse. On page 7, there are suddenly only 557 results, on page 8, 556, and on page 9, 89. Page 10 then disappears, as it is no longer populated. This could be explained, for example, by the fact that the search engine's algorithm continues sorting even after the initial results are displayed, which certainly makes sense in terms of speed. However, if the first page promises 5,600 results, of which only 90 remain on the last page, then almost every search result provides a false impression of the general interest in the searched term, because almost no one clicks through to the last page. Of the 89 actual search results, 24 articles are indeed about Genzken's divorce or its unfortunate consequences. Three articles deal with the awarding of the Goslar Kaiserring to Genzken 23 years after the divorce; six with Genzken retrospectives at least a decade and a half after the divorce; ten with Gerhard Richter (and only him); 34 with art in some way or something completely different, but the name Isa Genzken appears; 13 with something completely different, without the name Isa Genzken appearing: German-English translations, Eva Hesse, Martin Drescher, Tina Turner (who is getting married on Lake Zurich), Caritas winter packages, poisoned baby food, textbooks on language and literature, Veronica Ferres (who has also been divorced), event listings for the state of Brandenburg, a magazine called Siegessäule (Victory Column), the division of humanity into believers and non-believers, and Camill Leberer. Four days later, the number of results has suddenly jumped to 900, shrinking to 114 on page 12; not a single new article on the searched topic appears among the 25 mysteriously added results. For the query "Gerhard Richter" + "divorce," the search engine promises a staggering 74,800 publications on the first page—more than enough to read in a lifetime—but of the 178 results remaining on page 18, not a single article actually deals with "Gerhard Richter" and "divorce," only the familiar articles about the "suffering of Isa G." If the search query is not narrowed down by characters (which have apparently become irrelevant, although according to the FAQ they are still “valid”), but by “Settings”, “Search pages that contain all these words”, things don't improve: 858 results on page 1, 856 results from page 5 onwards, 119 results on the last page 12; the same motley, often far-fetched stuff. In all these search results, one article addresses the fact that Genzken's art is difficult to understand – but what is obviously not at all understandable is the way in which the most well-known search engine reflects reality (meaning the actual performance of this search engine, apart from any conspiracy theory). It's even more baffling why over 90% of people in the (former) land of poets and thinkers always use only one search engine, which only provides thorough information after a considerable investment of time and effort. Not even 10% of Germans use alternative search engines like Startpage – where a search for "Isa Genzken" + "divorce" yields 51 results across 6 pages, all of which can be accessed anonymously (and thus largely without risk to the user). Until recently, articles about Isa Genzken's private life dominated search results, even when searching for "Isa Genzken" alone to learn about the artist. But media coverage is changing: since Isa Genzken was awarded the Goslar Kaiserring in 2017, or rather, since the news of this prestigious award was published, it has slowly become common knowledge, even among the most obscure, uninspired editors, that the artist Isa Genzken has long exerted a tremendous influence on the world of contemporary art. Perhaps, in light of this embarrassing example, the message will spread further among journalists that there are productive people out there whom journalists must strive to cover, because these people's attention is focused on their work and not on publications about themselves or their work (and among readers, that they only get information when journalists are paid with the revenue from publications and not just media moguls or shareholders)? Berlin's Neue Nationalgalerie celebrates the artist's 75th birthday with a special exhibition Isa Genzken, the artist, turned away from the orthodox principles of modernism early on. To mark her 75th birthday, the Neue Nationalgalerie in Berlin an exhibition that shows how she shapes social space in a different way – playful, open, pleasure-oriented, and queer. In this festive setting, the Neue Nationalgalerie is exhibiting 75 sculptures from all phases of the German artist's career, from the 1970s to the present day, in Mies van der Rohe's glass case "Blue-Gray-Yellow Hyperbolo 'MBB'" (1981), "Atelier" (1990), "Venice" (1993), "Nefertiti – The Original" (2012), and "Actor" (2013). Presenting art in this space is sometimes a challenge, as the light inside depends on the sky over Berlin. What might work in smaller exhibition spaces appears in the vast hall like flotsam washed up on the cliffs of postwar modernism. Nevertheless, the Isa Genzken 75/75 exhibition a calm and gentle atmosphere. A review of this exhibition can be found in the culture section of Welt.de: ISA GENZKEN What the educated middle class doesn't allow into their home . The next article in this mini-series on Kunstplaza ( Isa Genzken: An artist at the top ) also deals with the quiet but unstoppable rise of the world-renowned artist who, for good reason, shies away from the press. Keywords: Best art in the world, Leading German artists, Gerhard Richter, Information quality of internet search engines, Understanding of art You might also be interested in: - Art Periods and Movements – Introduction to the Art History of Styles and Their Characteristics - Frida Kahlo in an artist portrait: Art as a mirror of life - Abstract Art - An Overview of the Non-Objective Art Movement - Sol LeWitt: An unstoppable career through art with a logical structure - Famous Oil Paintings Part 2 - Places 26 to 50 Seek Similar posts: - Art Periods and Movements – Introduction to the Art History of Styles and Their Characteristics - Frida Kahlo in an artist portrait: Art as a mirror of life - Abstract Art - An Overview of the Non-Objective Art Movement - Sol LeWitt: An unstoppable career through art with a logical structure - Famous Oil Paintings Part 2 - Places 26 to 50 Popular categories - Sculpture - Design - Digital art - Photography - Freelancing - Garden design - Interior design - Creative gifts - Creativity - Art Periods And Movements - Art history - Art trade - Artists - Art Marketing - Art Market Knowledge - Painting - Music - News - Street Art / Urban Art - Tips for art dealers - Tips for artists - Trends - Living from art Featured Art Design and Decor Highlights - Foldable lounge chair "Perugia" made of teak wood and genuine leather (black) 319,00 € VAT included. Delivery time: 4-8 working days - J-Line 3-piece set of "Low Modern" candlesticks, metal (dark brown) 39,90 € VAT included. Delivery time: 3-5 working days - Luxurious 3D wall art "World" made of MDF + resin behind glass, handcrafted 395,00 € VAT included. Delivery time: 4-8 working days - Colorful polyresin dog sculpture "Love Dot Doggy", pop art style with polka dots 465,00 € VAT included. Delivery time: 6-10 working days - Rattan pendant lamp "Chapeau", inspired by classic hat shapes (natural) 154,95 € VAT included. Delivery time: 1-3 working days - "Mara" table lamp with satin black lampshade 182,00 € VAT included. Delivery time: 2-3 working days - J-Line reversible cushion “Scintillant” with opulent sequins (black/silver) 27,95 € VAT included. Delivery time: 1-2 working days


--- [Isa Genzken - 2019 Laureate - Nasher Sculpture Center] ---
Engaging a diverse range of media such as wood, plaster, concrete, textiles, and detritus and working in a variety of modes, including sculpture, photography, filmmaking, painting, drawing, and collage, Genzken transforms vernacular materials into wholly unique forms. Her inventive, ad hoc approach to making, as well as her fearless embrace of chaos and change, has inspired a generation of artists, even as she continues to adapt, expand, and redefine her protean oeuvre. “We’d be hard pressed to name an artist with a more textured and dynamic sculptural practice than Isa Genzken,” says Nasher Director Jeremy Strick. “Her work not only straddles an array of forms that complicate and enrich our understanding of sculpture, she also consistently challenges the way an artist’s career and oeuvre might look, breaking apart the notion of specialization within an individual studio practice. Her work can feel utterly urgent and visceral—fraught with emotion—while at other times, objects are rendered with such precision as to seem devoid of human touch. This range of material and conceptual rigor has positioned Genzken as a major influence on younger generations of artists working today amid the clamor of the digital age, offering permission and encouragement to subvert norms and invent new possibilities.” Born in 1948 in Bad Oldesloe, Germany, Genzken is part of a generation of postwar German artists who inherited a fraught national history. While some artists turned to abstraction to avoid the subject of Germany’s past atrocities, others, such as Gerhard Richter, Anselm Kiefer, Sigmar Polke, and Genzken, confronted the traumas and aftermath of World War II by creating works that emphasized material culture and incorporated elements of Pop art and American Minimalism. Genzken studied fine arts, art history, and philosophy in Hamburg, Berlin, and Cologne before completing her studies at the Academy of Fine Arts in Düsseldorf in 1977. During that time, Genzken developed a broad network of contacts and references in an environment enriched by the Academy, the international program at the Kunsthalle, and at the Konrad Fischer Gallery, which was the primary advocate of Minimalism, process-based art, Land art, and Conceptual art in Germany. There, Genzken became affiliated with artists on the leading edge of Minimalist and Post-Minimalist sculpture, and in 1976 she would have her first solo show at the Konrad Fisher Gallery. While Genzken’s earliest works—her series of Ellipsoids and Hyperbolos (1976–83), in particular—formally resemble Minimalist sculpture, their associative aspects break with its hermeticism. “Of course, it was exactly this ‘content’ that I wanted to bring back into the Ellipsoids,” Genzken says, “So that people would say, ‘It looks like a spear,’ or a toothpick, or a boat. This associative aspect was there from the very beginning and was also intentional, but from the viewpoint of Minimal art, it was absolutely out of the question and simply not modern.”1 Central to Genzken’s artistic development were her many visits to New York City. Starting in 1960, Genzken made frequent trips there, where she admired the architecture and the city itself. It became the subject of several bodies of work throughout Genzken’s career, including her bound notebooks that comprise the work I Love New York, Crazy City (1995–96). Understood as the artist’s first significant assemblage, I Love New York was intended as a city guidebook, featuring photographs, hotel bills, posters, tickets, napkins, receipts, and notes on hotel stationery. Genzken translated the contents of this book—found materials, detritus—into three dimensional sculpture for the first time in her exhibition Fuck the Bauhaus (New Buildings for New York) at New York’s AC Project Room in 2000. The show featured six sculptures set on rough plywood pedestals, resembling disheveled architectural models, cobbled together from humble materials such as cardboard, foam core, caution tape, plastic mesh, and glue, and represented Genzken’s seminal foray into sculptural assemblage. Fuck the Bauhaus signaled a new direction in Genzken’s practice, as the artist transitioned from construction and fabrication to handmade assemblage. Art critic Peter Schjeldahl later recognized the exhibition as “the starter’s gun for a movement”—a reference to the shift in contemporary art production toward an “unskilled” aesthetic best illustrated by the New Museum’s 2007 group exhibition Unmonumental: The Object in the 21st Century.2 Roberta Smith described this so-called movement in her review of the show, The thesis here is that assemblage-type sculpture, rampant at the moment, may also be today’s most viable art form. Why? It tends to be low-tech, modest in scale, made with found objects and materials and structured in ways that are fragmented if not actually disintegrating. Its ugly-duckling looks, rough edges, disparate parts and weird juxtapositions help stave off easy art-market absorption while also reflecting our fearful, fractured, materially excessive times back at us.3 Smith would later declare assemblage “the central, most robust aesthetic of our time,” referring to Genzken as the “presumptive éminence grise” of the Unmonumental exhibition. 4 “Isa Genzken makes work that retains its spontaneity right to the last. She uses an extraordinarily diverse range of materials and forms, so there is a continuous unpredictability as to what the next body of work might and can be,” says artist and Nasher Prize juror, Phyllida Barlow. “The work is always evolving and therefore her influence is exceptional on artists of all ages.” Throughout her formally diverse body of work, Genzken’s interest in architecture and her ability to transform provisional materials into meaningful ruminations on society remain constant. It is in the combination of objects that her works find their meaning, as the artist explains, “There is a permanent misunderstanding regarding the materials I use. I am not interested in readymades. The meaning is in the combination of things. […] I want to animate the viewers, hold up a mirror to them…”5 Among her most powerful bodies of work is the sculptural ensemble Ground Zero (2008), which the artist made following a close reading of the open call for design proposals for the former site of the World Trade Center. Though never submitted, the sculptural assemblages reflect Genzken’s adherence to the rules set forth in the open call for proposals and together represent an earnest, if humorous, plan for the site. As with her sculptures in Fuck the Bauhaus, those Genzken assembled for Ground Zero include structures representing aspects of the built environment: a parking garage, church, hospital, disco, clothing shop, and memorial tower constructed from materials as diverse as silk flowers, shopping carts, plastic fan covers, and a hospital gown. Though hypothetical, Genzken’s proposal was an homage to New York and represented the kinds of buildings she felt reflected the essence of life, culture, and the city. In 2012, Genzken turned her attention to the body, through a series of sculptures that play on the conventions of modernist statuary and continue the artist’s explorations in form, color, and texture. Titled Schauspieler (Actors), Genzken’s figurative assemblages comprise mass-produced mannequins “wearing” myriad coverings such as jackets, sweaters, hats, and masks. They feel improvised, both in posture and attire, and certain of their surfaces bear the mark of the artist—painted faces, arms and legs covered in crayon, for example. The figures are commonly installed in groups and suggest a crowd of eccentric urban types. Walking among them, the sculptures conjure a human presence and relationships between figures develop, as do social and psychological dynamics. Many of the garments and accessories donned by the mannequins are drawn from Genzken’s wardrobe—pieces of herself dispersed as decoys or alter egos. The work Schauspieler II (2014) , for example, comprises a black male mannequin and several elements suggestive of the artist: a black and brown knit sweater drapes around the mannequin’s shoulders, while its head is wrapped in a mask of bright orange paper with a color image of the artist affixed to it. The paper mask is precariously secured to the sweater with a safety pin, indicating the article of clothing is Genzken’s. Mirrored foil covers the figure’s backside, chest, and groin. Parts of the body that would reveal the mannequin’s gender are otherwise obscured, while the viewer’s reflection would in turn “dress” the mannequin. Through this figurative assemblage Genzken has created a work that is a proxy for herself and a reflection of its viewer. Absent a viewer, the sculpture reflects its surroundings, visually combining architecture and the body—an overarching theme throughout Genzken’s kaleidoscopic oeuvre. Her restless transformation of modes can be attributed to a self-confessed effort to avoid “the already known.”6 In reflecting on her career, Genzken says, “For a long time, I went about my work very conceptually. […] I had an idea and I realized it forcefully. Then I stopped doing that suddenly and a new phase started: Just go ahead. And yet the rigor of all those years is still in me.”7 About Isa Genzken Isa Genzken was born in 1948 in Bad Oldesloe, Germany, and lives and works in Berlin. She studied fine arts, art history, and philosophy in Hamburg, Berlin, and Cologne, before completing her studies at Kunstakademie Düsseldorf in 1977. Genzken’s work has been the subject of many major museum exhibitions, including traveling surveys organized by the Rheinisches Landesmuseum Bonn, Germany (1988–1989); the Renaissance Society at the University of Chicago (1992–1993); Museum Abteiberg, Mönchengladbach, Germany (2002–2003); and Whitechapel Gallery, London (2009). She has also been featured in solo exhibitions at venues including the Kunstverein Braunschweig, Germany (2000); Museum Ludwig, Cologne (2002; organized by the Gesellschaft für Moderne Kunst on the occasion of the artist receiving the Wolfgang Hahn Prize); Camden Arts Centre, London (2006); Galerie im Taxispalais, Innsbruck, Austria (2006); Secession, Vienna (2006); and Museion, Bolzano, Italy (2010). Her work has been prominently featured in international biennials and group exhibitions including documenta 7, 9, and 11 (1982, 1992, and 2002), Skulptur Projekte Münster (1987, 1997, and 2007), and the Venice Biennale (1982, 1993, 2003, 2007, and 2015). In 2013, the Museum of Modern Art, New York, in collaboration with the Museum of Contemporary Art Chicago and the Dallas Museum of Art, presented Genzken’s first American museum survey, Retrospective, reaching back to the mid-1970s. The exhibition highlighted the full range of her practice including sculpture, as well as paintings, photographs, collages, drawings, artist’s books, and films, making it the most comprehensive presentation of her work to date. The recipient of the 2017 Goslarer Kaiserring (Emperor’s Ring) award from the city of Goslar, Germany, the artist is represented in museum and public collections worldwide, including the Dallas Museum of Art; Gemeentemuseum, The Hague; Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, Washington, DC; Museum Boijmans Van Beuningen, Rotterdam; Museum of Contemporary Art Chicago; Museum of Contemporary Art, Los Angeles; Museum of Modern Art, New York; Museum Ludwig, Cologne; Städtische Galerie im Lenbachhaus, Munich; Stedelijk Museum Amsterdam; and Van Abbemuseum, Eindhoven. [1] Diedrich Diederichsen, “Diedrich Diederichsen in Conversation with Isa Genzken (2006),” in Isa Genzken, ed. Lisa Lee 111-124 (Cambridge, MA; London: The MIT Press, 2015), 115. [2] The exhibition of nearly 80 works by 30 artists inaugurated the New Museum’s new building in Lower Manhattan and was on view December 1, 2007 –March 30, 2008. Genzken was the oldest participant in the show by at least 14 years—a testament to her work’s continued relevance and her influence on younger generations. See: https://archive.newmuseum.org/exhibitions/918 accessed August 30, 2018. See also: Schjeldahl,“Views from the Edge: An Isa Genzken Retrospective,” The New Yorker, December 2, 2013: https://www.newyorker.com/magazine/2013/12/02/views-from-the-edge accessed August 13, 2018. [5] Nicolaus Schafhausen, “A Conversation with Isa Genzken and Nicolaus Schafhausen,” in Isa Genzken: Oil : German Pavilion, Venice Biennale 2007, ed. Nicolaus Schafhausen and Isa Genzken 153-157 (Köln, Germany: DuMont, 2007), 156. [6] “The intention is to get a different reaction to the ‘already known.’ I can’t explain it any other way.” Wolfgang Tillmans, “Who Do You Love? Isa Genzken in Conversation with Wolfgan Tillmans,” Artforum (November 2005): 226. [7] Tillmans, “Who Do You Love?” 229.
