=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Georgy Danilov]
Georgy Konstantinovich Danilov was born on 10 January 1897 in Chyhyryn, a city located in the Chigirinsky Uyezd of the Kiev Governorate of the Russian ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Georgy_Danilov

[Georgy Danilov | Military Wiki | Fandom]
Georgy Konstantinovich Danilov was born on January 10, 1897 in Chyhyryn, a city located in the modern Cherkasy Oblast of central Ukraine (then still a part ...
URL: https://military-history.fandom.com/wiki/Georgy_Danilov

[Decolonizing a field and its practices | Journal of Arabic Sociolinguistics]
by D Smakman · 2025 · Cited by 2 — In the country that is now Ukraine, a variationist study of the language of Ukrainian workers appeared (Danilov 1929). South American examples of an indigenous ...
URL: https://www.euppublishing.com/doi/10.3366/arabic.2025.0038

[Part 1 People in: Global Studies Directory]
August 10(22), 1873, Sokolka of Grodno province; d. April 7, 1928, Moscow) – Russian scientist, physician, philosopher, economist, politician and science ...
URL: https://brill.com/display/book/9789004353855/BP000002.xml?language=en

[Three Contemporary Russian Poets and Biblical Tradition: Sergey ...]
by IG Vishnevetsky · 2022 · Cited by 1 — Sergey Zavyalov, as he spells his name in English, was born in 1958 in the former Imperial suburb of St. Petersburg (and summer residency of the Russian ...
URL: https://www.mdpi.com/2077-1444/13/11/1103


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Georgy Danilov] ---
Georgy Konstantinovich Danilov (Russian: Георгий Костантинович Данилов; 10 January 1897 – 29 July 1937) was a Soviet linguist, Africanist and polyglot. He was executed during the Great Purge and rehabilitated during the Khrushchev Thaw.


--- [Georgy Danilov | Military Wiki | Fandom] ---
Georgy Konstantinovich Danilov (Russian: Георгий Костантинович Данилов; 10 January 1897- 29 July 1937) was a Soviet linguist, africanist and polyglot.[1] Biography[] Georgy Konstantinovich Danilov was born on January 10, 1897 in Chyhyryn, a city located in the modern Cherkasy Oblast of central Ukraine (then still a part of the Russian Empire). He was of Russian ethnicity.[2] Danilov enrolled at Moscow University(ИФФ МУ,Faculty of engineering and physics) in 1916 but he was immediately drafted into the Imperial Army and sent to the front during World War I for a period of two years . Although he was formally graduated, his education remained incomplete.[3] In 1922 he returned to Moscow where he was assigned instantly to the department of languages at the Communist University of the Toilers of the East (or Коммунистический университет трудящихся Востока КУТВ). He worked at КомА (Коммунистическая академия, Communist Academy)then he worked as a teacher in high school and in February 1931, Danilov became the assistant director of the linguistic Institute linked to the Наркомпрос (Народный комиссариат просвещения, the People's Commissariat for Enlightenment). He lived in the Soviet capital in Pirogovskaya Street where he was arrested on May 14, 1937.Danilov was an active member of the communist party and for his progressive ideas became, unluckily, a victim of the regime . Found guilty of crimes against his country, being a member of a counterrevolutionary terrorist organization, he was executed on July 29, 1937 (like him several africanists perished due to Joseph Stalin's purges). Danilov's ashes were scattered in the Donskoy Cemetery .[4] He was rehabilitated on November 10, 1956. Marxist linguistics and Jazikofront[] Danilov used linguistics to solve day to day practical political problems and his works were intimately related to social class. His approach to Marxism was dogmatic, always asking what the real Marxism was in linguistics and who could be called a true Marxist linguist.The social purpose of his work emerged from a linguistic study, done in Ukraine, which is entitled: "Язык общественного класса (по данным говора мест. Белик Полтавского округа), The language of social class (according to the dialect of Beliki, in the region of Poltava) [5]”.4.The greatest achievement of this linguistic survey has been the modernity of his methods, using what he called mass observation that in a way reminding of modern sociolinguistics. The area where Danilov and his team worked was the village of Beliki in the region of Poltava, in the summer of 1927. In his work, dated 1928, the author wanted to focus his interest on the language of people, conducting a “linguistic survey” and studying data according to different linguistic axes. To do so, he interviewed several people. The study consisted of identifying citizen class types and of demonstrating their particular speech and how this contributes to the class struggle.[6] The main method to search for material and information consisted of a systematic investigation of many people of different ages, gender and social status. What emerged from this linguistic analysis was the strong role that language can have in the class struggle between proletariat and bourgeoisie. Also Danilov shared the common belief, which was widespread in the second half of the 1920s, namely: the socio-economic conditions of a social group or class are reflected by their psychology and their language used. The different uses of language in these classes introduce a new hierarchy in which poor peasants occupy the bottom of the ladder, as they use the archaic lexicon reduced to the terminology of agriculture. In this classification, skilled workers and local cadres occupy a high place - they are bilingual, they use the Russian language of the October Revolution but they also speak Ukrainian. Danilov's diversity of language is interpreted as the result of differences between the psychologies of classes. Danilov suggested to adopt a new language that can finally unite the classes and his proposal was Russian, since it relates to the Revolution (taken into consideration that it was a proposal and not a prerequisite).He later understood the limitations of this work affirming that he should have looked beyond the results and should not have considered these results as answers but as the key to get to the answers. During the 1930s in the Soviet Union two main linguistic schools exist; Those who followed the idea of an ancient proto-language developed long time ago, namely, Protoindoeuropean language and those who followed the theory postulated by Nikolay Marr, the Japhetic Theory. The situation was more complicated though, the studies conducted by Marr and the new linguistic movement, Marrism, did not form the only social opposition to the Indoeuropean linguistics, the so-called Bourgeois linguistics. On September 15, 1930, Danilov formally founded "Jazikofront", a group of linguists, belonging to the communist academy, who rejected the Japhetic Theory. It seems the members of Jazykfront recognised the essential contradiction between Marrist one-sidedly genetic analysis and functional analysis (Marr's analysis was focused on the past period rather than recent events).For the first time in the USSR, Marrism was attacked by Marxist linguists and not by those who sided with the Indoeuropeanistic movement. The "Jazikofront", was an association of linguists, that survived until 1932. Apart from Danilov, it included other important young linguists, such as K. A. Alaverdov, Y.V. Loya, T. P. Lomtev and P.S.Kuznetsov. The struggle for those young linguists, like Danilov, was a battle fought on two different fronts: against the traditional approach to language and against other pretenders to the throne of new linguistics and other linguists claiming to be Marxists. Their criticism was not ideological, but technical. Ideologically, the positions of Marr coincided with those of the group, but it was necessary to revise the method of study proposed by him. The young linguists of Jazikofront, together with Danilov, shared the conviction with marrists that Indo-European linguistics was an obsolete approach to the study of the language, but their conclusions about what should replace it were different. They felt that linguistics had to deal with present-day reality and it should concentrate on the relation between language, class and the proletariat consciousness to create a socialist society. The Jazikofront criticised the Japhetic theory, because its approach to the study of the language was in a certain way old and therefore useless to solve the real problems of Soviet linguistics. Danilov was attacked from several sides by enemies and by those who did not share his ideas in linguistics. His work and that of his colleagues was severely attacked on multiple fronts, on one hand by indoeuropeanists, and on the other by marrists. Danilov, debated and answered to criticism made against him in numerous papers and articles. His bitter enemy was Yevgeny Polivanov whom he accused of adopting an anti-proletarian position because he defended the position of indoeuropean studies. Polivanov was defined by Danilov, as a Trotskyist and a defiant. However, the arguments provided by Danilov to disprove the thesis of Polivanov were unclear and confusing and sometimes even contradictory.[3] Danilov's influence on the new linguistic trends began to worry also the exponents of marrism. Fits into this trend, for example, the term "danilovščina" (даниловщина), coined by Jakubinskii, which defined Danilov's ideas as a dangerous tendency for the development of new linguistics. African studies in Soviet Union[] Georgy Danilov was an exponent of the movement of attention for Africa, and especially for South Africa, which resulted in the creation of НИАНКП(the Research Association for the Study of National and Colonial Problems).[7] Soviet African studies emerged from the late 1920s to the late 1930s. During that period none of Soviet Africanist scholars travelled to Africa.In the early 1930s a Department of Africa was created at one of Comintern’s universities, the Communist University of Eastern Toilers. There was also an African Department, or the African Laboratory (“Kabinet”) in the Academic Research Association for National and Colonial Problems. Its main task was collecting materials on Africa.The activities of both these centres were vibrant and diverse. Not only did they study Africa’s socio–economic problems and history but languages too. Not only Moscow academics were involved in these studies, but Leningrad linguists too. Émigrés from African countries and Africans who came to study at Comintern’s universities (Lenin School and KUTV) also participated.[8] The initiator of the study of African languages in Moscow was Danilov. His efforts gave birth to the first Soviet Congress for African languages in Moscow on January 1934, during which saw the light his two papers on the concerned topic, namely: «Perspectives, tasks and methods of studies on African languages» and «Phonetical system of Swahili».[9] References[] - ↑ "Списки жертв". Lists.memo.ru. http://lists.memo.ru/d10/f300.htm. Retrieved 2013-06-12. - ↑ "Жертвы политического террора в СССР". Lists.memo.ru. http://lists.memo.ru/index5.htm. Retrieved 2013-06-12. - ↑ 3.0 3.1 Politics and the Theory of Language in the USSR 1917-1938: The Birth of Sociological Linguistics- chapter 6,Language as a Battlefield: the Rhetoric of Class Struggle in Linguistic Debates of the First Five-Year Plan Period. The Case of E.D. Polivanov vs. G.K. Danilov, Kapitolina Fedorova - ↑ "Данилов Георгий Константинович". Russcience.euro.ru. http://russcience.euro.ru/repress/don/1937/danilov.htm. Retrieved 2013-06-12. - ↑ "txt". .unil.ch. http://www2.unil.ch/slav/ling/textes/DANILOV29/txt.html. Retrieved 2013-06-12. - ↑ Mladen Uhlik,Simmering in the Soviet pot: language heterogeneity in early Soviet socio-linguistics,September 2008 - ↑ http://fpp.hse.ru/data/126/385/1241/Kremlin%20(электр%20вариант).doc - ↑ [1][dead link] - ↑ http://bolshov.socionet.ru/files/AfStInRUS98-00.pdf External links[] The original article can be found at Georgy Danilov and the edit history here.


--- [Decolonizing a field and its practices | Journal of Arabic Sociolinguistics] ---
No content


--- [Part 1 People in: Global Studies Directory] ---
No content


--- [Three Contemporary Russian Poets and Biblical Tradition: Sergey ...] ---
Three Contemporary Russian Poets and Biblical Tradition: Sergey Zavyalov, Natalia Chernykh, Jaan Kaplinski Abstract :1. The Subject Conspicuously Absent from Academic Discussion 2. Sergey Zavyalov and the Holy Scripture 3. The World Seen through the Biblical Lens: Natalia Chernykh - When we go to Sokolniki I will forget - the unbearable pressure of memories, and all of a sudden, the image - of wretched reality - will move and take off like a crane wedge, - […] - the events will lose their heavy weight forever, - as it has been promised in the Revelation, - and there should be time no longer. - When we go to Sokolniki - (and travel through space with no time with a lightness of an arrow), - we will see the swollen April sky over the Baltic Sea - which existed before the separation of earthly and heavenly waters, - a sky over Noah’s dwelling place before the waters retreated. - Only the leaves of linden-trees in Sokolniki - continue their plaintive funeral chant. - I thought it should be solemn and strong. - I’m a Russian Camena and misery’s bread, - inspiration controls my fingers, - I am as cold as one’s instincts and as hot as revelation, - I used to be human, now I am in a state-before-resurrection, - I am just a Camena, a gift and a reward, - I used to live in the ruins of hell11. - Now listen and write it down, for it hasn’t transpired yet, - and not everybody is God’s poet: - my appearance [here] is for some reason, - I am Camena, a state-before-resurrection. - I hang as Damocles’ steel over you, - o poet, and pierce you like a brace soldier’s [shoulder], - for you are of God’s will and eternal, - you are poetry’s liver and heart12. - This day Russian Camena - Has climbed the snowy hills - And spoke to her distant sisters - With a wonderful voice. 4. Life-Long Fighting with and Longing for Absolute: Jaan Kaplinski - There are faces reflected in the watery mirror— - I don’t know who is me— - the white butterfly has a dream - that it is a poet a philosopher - The book, a story of myself, is about to end— - a story written by somebody else’s hand. - Will I wake up in my own or somebody else’s dream - beyond other rivers, in an alien land?21 - I can only pray to God - who resurrects everybody extinct - not me - …my life, - which also, as it often seems to me, - bears a winged fingerprint of God, - with Whom I was fighting, for Whom I was longing - almost from my childhood. - Old armchair lays on the beach - and is half-buried in sand. - It is not only me who is alone like this armchair, like everybody - within the circular confines of the horizon. - Only God is not here or there and not alone. - He simply is and persists to be God - here and there, behind 0 and ∞, - far away from His name and from everybody, who believes - or does not believe in Him. - [n]o human speech is heard, the wind - subsides, allowing us to hear - something else, something reminding us - of a light sound of flames or birds flying - and allowing us to stop for a moment, since this ladder - is no longer a ladder but a tree with a top - almost reaching the clouds, the sky… 5. Dialog Worth Listening to Very Carefully Funding Institutional Review Board Statement Informed Consent Statement Data Availability Statement Conflicts of Interest Appendix A. Sergey Zavyalov (b. 1958), I Saw Jesus: And He Was Christ (2022) - Transfiguration of Jesus - And after six days Jesus taketh with him Peter, and James, and John, - and leadeth them up into an high mountain apart by themselves: - and he was transfigured before them. - And his raiment became shining, exceeding white as snow; - so as no fuller on earth can white them. - Mark 9: 2–3 - It appears before my eyes this sunset - surrounded by the gradually darkening air - and in the direction of mountains - everything lifts up slowly in a pink halo - of the setting sun and becomes - clearer and clearer - It is said: - the gate is open in heaven - there will be no time - everything old passed away - And yes, the hero is ready to die - for his kin - for his land - for his language - As if the mountains with their not fully melted snow - from the other world as if they were not - flying but lifting up slowly skywards - where neither us nor our evil deeds - and lofty yearnings exist - in the fourth day of Creation - And yes, the priest is ready to die - for the Word of God - for His testament - for the fulfillment of God’s Law - Plowman - shepherd - craftsman - are also ready to die for something - I remember this well I was not yet twenty - it appears before my eyes after not so brief - a life which started back then afresh - I suddenly felt somebody was behind me - I turned my head his garments were shining - as if a cloud descending upon us - Even slave - day laborer - harlot - are ready to die for something - What are you ready - to die for? - Are you ready - to die? - He spoke: “rising from the dead… - suffering many things… being humbled…”25 - I hardly back then understood those words - it was rather good that I didn’t - yet I got the thing: I saw Jesus: - and he was Christ - On the Mountain You were Transfigured, O Christ God, - and Your disciples beheld Your glory as far as they could see it; - so that when they would behold You crucified, - they would understand that Your suffering was voluntary, - and would proclaim to the world, - that You are truly the Radiance of the Father! - Kontakion to the Transfiguration - II. - Saint Veronica - And a certain woman, which had an issue of blood twelve years, - and had suffered many things of many physicians, and had spent all that she had, - and was nothing bettered, but rather grew worse, - when she had heard of Jesus, came in the press behind, and touched his garment. - For she said: “If I may touch but his clothes, I shall be whole.” - And straightway the fountain of her blood was dried up; - and she felt in her body that she was healed of that plague. - Mark 5: 25–29 - I had almost no force to live completely exhausted by bleeding - When I had money for doctors and medications - they cured yet not completely - And then I had no money - Even now - on the threshold of death - you can’t say anything about - or understand - l o v e - My sick skin turned green I became very thin - was expecting to die every day - and asking for a delay - oh no not this afternoon please - Your memories - and innocent games of your childhood - could be touching - Yet were they l o v e? - Everybody avoided me - saying “God’s punishment” - and I started to think ‘twas my fault - my own poking around26 - You may even feel - exalted - living again and again - through the sweet memories - of your girlhood - Were they l o v e or not? - So when did I become possessed? - Still a girl While others walked with their eyes cast down - I looked eye to eye - smiling happily! - And yes, you may be revisited - by delusive hopes of your youth - What else could they be if not l o v e? - Asked myself - Why should a girl wait? - Am I worse than those lads? - Let them wait! - You may also keep deeply inside - the disillusionments - of your adulthood - L o v e never errs - And it started my life appeared to be a feast - I allowed all ways and not just for money - it was fun so much fun! I remember it now - Lord what an old fool I am - Now about l o v e: - does it create or destroy? - does it give life or take it away? - Even then - when I saw him among the crowd and some feeling inside me woke up - let me I thought press against him in passing - as it happened before with others - Only l o v e knows you better - it testifies in your favor like no one else - and now it dies with you - And then in my belly something turned over - the pain concentrated as if during a period - and I experienced such dryness (complete) - I was afraid I was about to pass out - And he turned his head and he spoke - “I feel the release of my power”27 - then I fell and he added “Daughter be brave”28 - and moved further - Since that moment I started attending the temple carrying my veil with me - when I spread it out it seemed I could see his face - and it occurred to me recently back then I saw Jesus - and He was Christ! - We venerate Your most pure image, O Good One, - and ask forgiveness of our transgressions, O Christ God. - Of Your own will You were pleased to ascend the Cross in the flesh - to deliver Your creatures from bondage to the enemy. - Therefore, with thanksgiving we cry aloud to You: - You have filled all with joy, O our Savior, by coming to save the world. - Troparion, Tone 2 - III. - The Rich Young Man - And when he was gone forth into the way, - there came one running, and kneeled to him, and asked him, Good Master, - what shall I do that I may inherit eternal life? - Then Jesus beholding him loved him, and said unto him, - One thing thou lackest: go thy way, - sell whatsoever thou hast, and give to the poor. - And he was sad at that saying, and went away grieved. - Mark 10: 17, 21–22 - Am I truly a rich young man? - Am I truly eating the very last crumbs from my family’s table? - My grandfather owned a mansion - and a villa up in the mountains also a textile factory - which he jokingly called ergasterion29 - Are you ready to die - because everything will be covered by - or evaporate - with the water? - Then we had to sell the factory. - And my father got rid of a villa. - I was eight. I cried and cried. - Now two thirds of a mansion I rent to immigrants. - It barely covers my bills. - Are you ready to die - because your air will be poisoned - and dissolved - in the highest? - I can’t even play my instrument - or listen to music without my headphones - They complain with no respect: little kids, I disturb them - What they listen to are not Turkish maqams or music by Kantemiroglu30 - but indecent sounds - Are you ready to die - because the sun is cooling down - or, quite the opposite, - heating up speedily? - Should I give up everything I possess? I possess almost nothing - My library my favorite poems - books in exotic languages passed to me by my dear unforgettable father - CDs with classical music DVDs with silent films - Who will care for those items? - Are you ready to die - because the plague will exterminate - all the people - and all living creatures? - What he said I can’t remember exactly - but the meaning was “woe unto you that are rich - for ye will be poor woe unto you that are respectable - for ye will be ruined woe unto you that are joyous - for ye will lament and weep”31 - No, you are not ready to die - hit by the elements - shot in a battle - knifed in a village brawl - Oh how true were his words - I deserve better health I am under forty - yet I suffer from high blood pressure cardiac arrhythmia and sleepless nights - I deserve so much to be like the others “not my will, but Thine - to be done”32 - And he didn’t accept me: didn’t care for toy camel33 - for my privileged youth with its Sunday liturgies - which I always attended nicely dressed - I am utterly lost yet I almost believed (still believe) - back then I saw Jesus: and He was Christ - From the years of my youth, - many passions combat me; - but You, Who are my Savior, - assist me and save me. - You, haters of Zion, - shall be put to shame by the Lord Almighty, - for as grass in the fire - you shall all be withered. - By the Holy Spirit, - every soul is made living, - is exalted, and made shining through purification, - by the Threefold oneness, in a hidden manner. - Anavathmoi (Hymns of Ascent), Tone 4 - IV. - The Good Samaritan - And Jesus answering said, - A certain man went down from Jerusalem to Jericho, - and fell among thieves, which stripped him of his raiment, - and wounded him, and departed, leaving him half dead. - But a certain Samaritan, as he journeyed, came where he was: - and when he saw him, he had compassion on him, - and went to him, and bound up his wounds, - pouring in oil and wine. - Luke 10: 30, 33–34 - I was driving you know back home in a truck and the blinding Sun was setting - it was time like to stop have my evening prayer (shom namozi34 we call it) - so I parked went to the bushes - washed myself from a flask took a mat (zhoynamoz, namozlyk35) for my prayer - thought like: what was the right direction? then spread a mat - The day will come - and the faithful will stand against faithful - Then I heard like someone was moaning - Asfagfurriloh (Let Allah forgive me) I thought: machinations of Shaitan - I kept my position continued and reached - “I seek Allah’s help from Satan, who is being stoned” - and then the moaning increased - And poor - will cut each other’s heads off with sabers - and cut each other’s bellies open with knives - and crush the heads of each other’s children - against the sharp edges of stone buildings - The prayer was interrupted I thought: - “Let me die of Allah’s rage - Let him burn me out with fire”36 - I had to finally go and see - “In the name of God, the Most Gracious, the Most Merciful” - And all of them will pray - five times a day - and read their prayers - in the same language - I went into a ditch and saw a human being you know - all covered with blood couldn’t speak just moaned - I thought I still had a chance to take him to a hospital - Since Allah did not let him die before - he should live! - “No one can ever die - without Allah’s permission”37 - The day will come - and infidels will stand against infidels - So I carried him out and you know - have covered the seat not to pay too much for damage to the truck’s owner - drove really fast - while being afraid what if the cops stop me and say - “Is it what you have done to him you stupid piece of wood?”38 - The rich men will have - big underwater ships - and also watercraft - they will sink each other - in the open sea - they will have birds of steel - which will turn - their cities into ruins - from the open air above - they will have pillars of fire - which will burn their soldiers to ashes - on the ground - and under the ground - Yet it is said “Allah is not an offender of slaves” - And who am I in this alien land if not just a slave? - Who were those beasts? They have done it to one of their own! - “Let Allah please them with painful punishments! - Allah is strong in his rage!”39 - and the priests will bless those killers - with the same prayers - in the same common language - I came back home read my xufton namozi40 then finished with shom namozi - Now I think like you know: What about the prophets? - What about fellow Jews trying to kill their ʿĪsā ibn Maryam41? - He was saved—and, like, how? - I indeed saw ʿĪsā ibn Maryam: and he was al-Masīḥ42 - The angel cried - to the Lady Full of Grace: - Rejoice, O Pure Virgin! - Again I say: Rejoice! - Your Son is risen - from His three days in the tomb! - With Himself - He has raised all the dead! - Rejoice, all you people! - Shine! Shine! O New Jerusalem! - The Glory of the Lord - has shone on you! - Exalt now and be glad, O Zion! - Be radiant, O Pure Theotokos, - in the Resurrection of your Son! - The Megalynarion of Pascha - V. - Healing the Paralytic - And, behold, they brought to him a man sick of the palsy, lying on a bed: - and Jesus seeing their faith said unto the sick of the palsy; - Son, be of good cheer; thy sins be forgiven thee. - Arise, take up thy bed, and go unto thine house. - Matthew 9: 2, 6 - Suddenly I wanted to bear a son - stopped smoking - and why should I care for those chats after my shifts - if I was expecting a c h i l d? - Was so happy - I walked and he was inside my belly - nothing was visible - yet I walked! - I thought (what a fool!) - I would teach him music - English language - would purchase a piano! - They will come and say: - woman God didn’t create - Adam and his rib - y o u should be what you want - Then my mind was blurred - medicine people some quacks - medicine people some doctors again - I have spent all my money - They will also come and say - woman is not a wife - and woman is not a mother - woman is what s h e h e r s e l f wants to be - My baby couldn’t - walk and speak - and hold his head - he couldn’t even be breastfed - His father would come - from time to time - bring and say something - I understood nothing - They will also come and say - Children are not from God - He doesn’t provide them with f a t h e r a n d m o t h e r - It is y o u who provide them with who you want - And when did it change? - When did I wake up and ceased expecting a miracle - every day ceased fighting for every step - every sound every gulp? - They will also come and say - Your flesh is not from God either - In whose image a woman was created? - Y o u will do to your flesh what you fancy - It is almost thirty years now - and I know - everything from now on will be better and better - every year every month every day - since His hand has once - touched my boy - Not for a moment I doubt - I saw Jesus: and He was Christ! - As of old Thou didst raise up the paralytic, - O Lord God, by Thy God-like care and might, raise up my soul, - which is palsied by diverse sins and transgressions - and by unseemly deeds and acts, - that, saved I may also cry out: - O Compassionate Redeemer, O Christ God, - glory to Thy dominion and might! - Kontakion, Tone 3 - VI. - Christ Carrying the Cross - And as they led him away, - they laid hold upon one Simon, a Cyrenian, coming out of the country, - and on him they laid the cross, - that he might bear it after Jesus. - Luke 23: 26 - I was back from the village and tractor repair shop - yet sober (we had to start sowing next morning) - tractor’s engine was malfunctioning after messing a lot with it I got it fixed - then they came - “Paro čokšńe! (Good evening!)”43 I said - thought they were from our district - and they talked back “Well! Want the same? - An accomplice?” - And I saw the guy who was with them - all covered with blood he could not even speak - As if it wasn’t enough they forced him to drag - some frighteningly huge wooden thing - You are telling yourself - that you aren’t ready to die - yet you can imagine your death - which is i n e v i t a b l e - I was not looking for trouble - My silly woman was waiting for me at home - and also old folks - and two boys - one named Santya44, like her, a slob - the other Romashka45 no doubt like me - he won’t let himself be offended - he would beat the hell out of the offender - What should I do? - I gave my shoulder the wooden thing was so heavy - can one person drag it? - he sighed as if starting to breath - Are you ready for the death of - not just e v e r y b o d y beloved - not just e v e r y t h i n g beloved - but simply e v e r y t h i n g? - And this guy he didn’t remind me of some other person - looked like a human and yet not necessarily human - as if from the sky - and all covered with shining - And those dogs they tortured him almost to death - He started lapsing into you know our tongue - “Pazom, Pazom, mejś Moń kadymek?46 - Why hast thou forsaken me?”47 - Well I thought they were about to kill him - and the fat one turned to me and said all of a sudden - “Azö ťeste padas! (Get the fuck out of here!)”48 - I took his direction - Ran could not understand a thing - only heard - the sound of a sledgehammer behind me - then silence - Are you ready - for not a single witness or testimony - of w h a t h a d e x i s t e d - b e f o r e? - I could not recollect what happened for many years - When I got really old it occurred to me - back then I saw Jesus: - and He was Christ! - O Lord, save Thy people, and bless Thine inheritance! - Grant victory to the Orthodox Christians over their adversaries, - and by virtue of Thy cross, preserve Thy habitation. - Troparion to the True and Life-Giving Cross Appendix B. Natalia Chernykh (b. 1969), Three Poems (2014) - I. - Joseph is Dreaming - Neither a piercing sound. Nor a brightness added by some clever creator to their faces. - Yes, it is better to increase the sound and hit the balloons, so that they take off. - His dreams49 before dawn were laying next to each other, warming each other, and bleating. Dreams—who were they? - Don’t get in love with them, don’t trust your herd, don’t pay attention to the oracles! - By saying, he explained: male or female raven - (young princess in March with a joyous eye - hovering over her favorite puddle; those puddles turn into oceans in our dreams, - and our destinies are like puddles under the sun). - You live your dreams fast like you live your life, - like you burn some ancient forgotten script onto a blank DVD or CD. - You have to expect at least one ear of wheat. Follow this rootless infinitive - and expect it while seating in your frozen ditch at dawn. - Neither a voice. Nor rivers of fire, condemnations, and day-spring. No. - Expect an ear of wheat until it appears50. - Open pain, they said, was more visible than pain, which was asleep. Yet the true problem was dreams. - Dreams like water in a nearby river: they raised up with melting snow, - and brought new movements, sounds, meanings. And hues. And combinations of strange figures. - Then the shadow appeared split into thin stripes, and, with all those stripes combined, - presented itself, and turned all visible, tangible, and taken inside, - including cold and warmth, into its opposite. - …the cold metal-blue sky over your head lacked any answer. - Horrible torture filled your entire being; - while devouring desirable beauty, you rolled down your bed: - your fall-over was so obvious, so frightening (yet there was none), full of approach and attraction, - your hands were in the hands of a female, both pairs melting, then, while dust was mixing with dust, - some musical instrument shrieked in your neighbor’s place (somebody added a rhythm to its shrieking), - and March evening revealed itself like a one-eyed soldier over the neighborhood. - You enjoyed it and arrived in spasms of horror, in shrieks of released inability… - like mutilated branches, while baring their animal teeth, come together again, - like ice crunches under your feet, like lovers fall of the roof… - No, not like that. And what about the moon? The moon was shining clearly and silently, the traders were passing by. - Several painful years passed by like cows: a skinny one, then a well-fed one51. - Only dreams were alive. Although it was not recommended to believe them. - Did you try? Did everything go well? Who? - A reader? Or the one whose name was sweeter than those dreams? - The dreams are like bread. Any dream is like bread. It can’t be voided. - The grapes wept over the chalice of Benjamin. - Dream was fortified, blessed, and royal. Reality was closer to the grave. - As for space – it could be heavier or lighter. The space, which spirit explored for food - (we had enough interpretations; it was true that they were untrue)— - the desired food was like paradise, which had already become food. - …in a thirst for feeding paradise - fire wakes up and carries horrible dreams. - Yet all dreams are horrible. - Wait, my precious, wasn’t it a hug of death, which looked like a married woman?52 - Wasn’t this approach caused by a smell of your dream around your tender neck? - Why make things complicated? Raven, bread, grapes, and a woman - are followed by a prison and your father. - As if they are not. Yet, when you look, they are. - And ‘yes’ and ‘no’ (like one creature?) have one heart and two bodies, - yet they pass. But the voice is certainly present. The sound is your firstborn. It is your voice. - II. - Night in Ramah - Two voices, one silence: - voices pierce, silence oppresses, - flashes of voices and a shadow of silence wander around. - Rachel cries out to the Holy Virgin, who stands at the Holy Cross53. - My mistress gracious Mary, - when I gave birth to my firstborn and to four more boys, - the heart of my beloved turned away, and I remained silent… - …it felt as if I was dying - like branches at God’s feet, like feet, which he kissed, in the dust… - …and I couldn’t get rid of my torture. - As if no one can see the Virgin in the shadow of the Cross. - …all those stars of Ramah are yours, Rachel. - Rachel cries out to the Holy Virgin, who stands at the Holy Cross, - her voice festers inside me, one can’t cut it from memory. - My mistress gracious Mary, - you know that a son, moreover not your own, inflicts the greatest pain: - his voice is like a razor blade, his fever is like his favorite game, - yet I have asked the One, who art, to give me a son, - and here I am with you, from the moment you gave birth in a manger with sheep around, - my lament has scattered the stones of the city of Ramah. - As if no one can see the Virgin in the shadow of the Cross. - O my ancient mother, - transparent and weightless, my mother, who seems to be absent. - Rachel cries out to the Holy Virgin, who stands at the Holy Cross: - stars come out of a throat of a dawn. - My mistress gracious Mary, - aren’t we all hit by St. Anthony’s fire?54 - You try to stand up—your legs are pierced, - you try to sit—your shoulders are pierced. - As if no one can see the Virgin in the shadow of the Cross, - and her silence rolls into a scroll: - “Look, the only thing left after us is a board in a refectory - which is enough. - Remember the thing which happened to us on earth— - the Nativity of your son and of Mine”. - III. - Diocletian’s Gold55 - …some steps in the streets and around our corner too: - sun-tanned neighbors exit all doors - (as if the figures cut out of amber made by an experienced master) - to chat in their southern dialect. - Like Diocletian. - Celestial body rests in the body of honey and dryness. - We hear Caesar’s steps: the sword of gods moves towards the hero, - who is invisible behind the smoke from an altar. - Like Caesar at dawn and a very long back of his head. - Jupiter, please visit our floors and give us our bread and movies. - Yet this Jupiter is a warrior; his strict mouth shines like the flames on an altar. - Great Alexander, be humbled. Your spacious lion-like beauty - doesn’t fit the Roman cosmos. And my Caesar is cut out of an Old World sycamore tree - and protects the sounds of Etruscan mysteries and the blood of my brethren, - also the granites covering the public square which make my feet tired, - and much-desired rest on a paid-for bed, - and some groceries from the nearby quarter - (with a discount for sunflower oil). - Jupiter is a relative of mine. And of my street. - And of all rude wagons moving there. And of everybody in those wagons. - And of everybody in this world who, in the absence of fate, - stop and freeze for a moment. - Moment, time, eternity. And Diocletian. - Like a sword kept in its scabbard, not yet a smell of blood, - but a cry of Sybil, or some sick girl - in the inner space (compressed by many breaths) - of a suburban temple. - And the shadows of the Moirai are spiked by three rays. - Caesar enters the stage. He is almost invisible through the magnificent crowd around him. - One can only see the long tanned back of his head. Appendix C. Jaan Kaplinski (1941–2021), Ten Poems - From WHITE BUTTERFLIES OF THE NIGHT (2014) - I can only pray to God - who resurrects everybody extinct56 - not me - I will stay aside - together with yesteryear’s snow - and blossoming apple-trees of this spring - and the morning wind will deliver - my poems prayers and mantras - to all parts of the world - highways paths and mailboxes - Ъ will rise from the dead, Ѣ and Ѳ will come back too. - Georgy Ivanovs57 - The past departs and the future moves faster and faster - through fingers days and concerns—like shadows on the grass - which become longer and darker—and the time is close - when I have to tell my final words - to one of those shadows—this is not difficult - yet I am not sure if I will be understood—yes, I was born here - yet I am originally not from this place I was neither made under the Soviets - nor in Estonia—I just got into a wrong spot, a subject - of a Sovereign with sad eyes who was killed almost a century ago - far away from here—when I close my eyes - I hear something like a weeping crying for help - shelling slogans songs prayers and spells - through the noise of a whirlpool of history which carries us away - together with fragments of our and somebody else’s memories - to the realm of shadows or alternative reality - where I would be able to print my books using letters Ѣ and Ѳ - and read—under my own government—Blok and Khodasevich - together with my father and listen to him telling me that one day - his family was visited by Mr. Vladimir Ulyanov58 - a person distinguished by good manners—he brought a pound of candies - for a boy who thirty years later would die in a prison camp - like the majority of friends and comrades of Mr. Ulyanov - From WINGED FINGERPRINT (2022) - If you have nothing to say, you may simply say “good by,” - “until I see you again,” “until tomorrow” or simply “farewell,” - say a few words, which sometime will gain significance, - then switch the light off, send your male cat to the kitchen, and go to bed - with a detective story, written by Chizh or Verbinina, and for just an hour - find yourself in a time, where your grandfathers and grandmothers - were young, happy, and successful, some in St. Petersburg, - some in Dorpat59, and all horrors of the twentieth century - were far away from their imagination. - The time went slowly, and the future didn’t exist: - a boy, who was destined to become my father, - drank milk bought from a Finnish milkwoman60 and was taken for walks - to the Summer Garden61, and a head of prison in Pskov62 - where my Estonian grandfather served his half-year sentence - for his anti-government activities—congratulated him on a birth of his daughter, - who was destined to become my mother and live as a widow - for forty years with her memories of war63 and bohemian youth in Paris, - which I visited for the first time when she was no longer alive. - Moonlight drips from the roofs of the buildings on asphalt, - speed bumps, roofs of the sleepy cars. - Motorcycle roar dissolves into silence. - Two white ships disappear into Ocean64. - Old armchair lays on the beach - and is half-buried in sand. - It is not only me who is alone like this armchair, like everybody - within the circular confines of the horizon. - Only God is not here or there and not alone. - He simply is and persists to be God - here and there, behind 0 and ∞, - far away from His name and from everybody, who believes - or does not believe in Him. Here and now - He simply plays hide and seek - with waves and little nimble crabs on wet sand - and leaves His fingerprints on sand and water. - He stands in his worn old pants - and colorless shirt at the gate of the department store— - Jesus Christ, with a whip in the bosom, and Santa Claus - stands inside the store, next to a Christmas tree from dawn to dusk, - from dusk to dawn he nods his head. - Next to him is a deer made of electric bulbs. - A Christmas carol comes from a public restroom. - Jesus is waiting: his birthday is a month and a half away. - He is waiting and thinking: Should I be born? Should I be born again - and whip those sellers and their customers out of here65 - or just silently disappear and leave - this marketplace and this world to them (to us)? - I don’t know if I want to die for something - like the Motherland, freedom, Europe, Asia, - America, Australia, Africa, or Antarctica, - the triumph of communism, peace in the whole world, - self-determination of nations66, - true faith, true czar67. - Now I understand: I want to simply die - like my predecessors and ancestors - in the time of Venus of Willendorf68, - Adam and Eve, Moses and Aaron, - like all those small creatures in the ancient sea - whose shells sunk to the very bottom - and became limestone, occasionally marble— - a material for tombstones and monuments - for some of us: - they are gradually getting covered - with moss and lichen and become - a momentous resting place for hover flies and bumblebees - and keep for a while a glow of the setting sun. - I ascend a black and white ladder69. - Somebody, who looks like a dark panther70, moves ahead of me, - although, upon reaching the thirty second step71, - this person is no longer this person but probably Haydn or Beethoven. - No human speech is heard, the wind - subsides, allowing us to hear - something else, something reminding us - of a light sound of flames or birds flying - and allowing us to stop for a moment, since this ladder - is no longer a ladder but a tree with a top - almost reaching the clouds, the sky72 - and the top’s color will turn from green to the darkest blue, - like a sky, revealing one by one - its early stars: Arcturus, Vega, do, re, mi, fa, sol— - and our longings and dreams will mingle in our hearts - with a faith in inaudible music of the spheres. - Looking at a little spotted butterfly, - which holds for the entire day to a windowpane - as if some finely designed badge glued to it, - I want to believe that it has a name, - a name, which reminds us of something long forgotten - like a message from the forest of symbols, forêt des symboles, - where we are often lost, while trying to translate - the flight of the small insects and the specks of dust, - the voices of creeks and aspen leaves, kingfishers and orioles, - the silence of moss covering stones under the pine-trees on a hill - and high spindrift clouds, which promise us - an excellent sunny day tomorrow—into our human language. - They probably wait for me there, on the other side; - I don’t know for sure, yet I dream that the birds, - who died crushing against our windowpanes, - being caught by the nets of the bird-catchers and paws of male cats, - are alive over there, - forests are preserved which we have already destroyed, - also my broken and lost toys and my books are preserved, - old manuscripts, extinct languages - (Pictish, Siculan, Cretan, Etruscan), - the art of telling one’s future according to bird’s flight, - animal entrails, thunder and thunderbolts, - telling the future that has already become present - and is simply ourselves, our lives, our time, - our houses, gardens and flights of the swifts - over the old Kremlin73, over bees and bumblebees - in the thickets of white lamium in a small park next to the river. - Indelible prints of an invisible finger - on a fresco on the ceiling of the Sistine Chapel, - on a last pale leaf falling from a linden-tree, - on the last page of a little old notebook - resting in a dusty drawer of a writing desk, - God’s fingerprint on a wave, which reached the shore, - a print of the swift’s wing on a white little cloud— - this wingprint spends a night in the Southeast - over an island, which I reached only once in my life, - yet was longing for it all my life, - which also, as it often seems to me, - bears a winged fingerprint of God, - with Whom I was fighting74, for Whom I was longing - almost from my childhood. - Translated from the Russian by Igor Vishnevetsky | 1 | Mostly thanks to an influential essay by the eighteenth-century Russian poet and scholar Mikhailo Lomonosov Introduction to the Benefits of Church Books for the Russian Language (Предисловие о пользе книг церковных в российском языке) (Lomonosov 1950–1983, vol. 7, pp. 585–92). | | 2 | Another contemporary Russian poet Valery Shubinsky (b. 1965), mentioned later in this essay, also spent part of his childhood in the former Tsarskoye Selo, where his father, an artillery officer, was stationed. | | 3 | During the so-called Great Purge of 1936–1938. | | 4 | Mordva is an ethnic group living mostly in the Volga region and speaking two closely related languages of the Finno-Ugric family, Erzya and Moksha: a situation to a degree paralleled by the existence of the Northern and Southern Estonian language; see more on that subject in relation to Jaan Kaplinski. | | 5 | For a deeper analysis of Zavyalov’s poetry of the early and middle periods, composed prior to his most interesting work of the present “synthetic” period, see (Orlitskii 2021, pp. 918–36). | | 6 | https://zaryadyehall.com/afisha/novim/sergey-akhunov-rozhdestvenskiy-post-orkestr-musica-viva-dirizhyer-valentin-uryupin/ (accessed on 28 October 2022). | | 7 | He left Russia in 2004. | | 8 | The dark irony is that Zavyalov and his family, themselves Russian émigrés, rent an apartment made of one quarter of what used to be a mansion of the wealthiest nineteenth-century resident of Winterthur, who donated paintings, mostly by German and Swiss Romantics, to the local Museum of Fine Arts and earned his enormous wealth through shameful trade in slaves; two other quarters of this rather beautiful house are also rented. | | 9 | After the dissolution of the Soviet Union millions of guest workers from its former republics moved to Russia. | | 10 | I remember composer Vladimir Martynov (b. 1946) referring in our conversations to the music of King Crimson as a “work of genius” and a major influence on his own creative work since the 1970’s. | | 11 | A clear reference to the first decade of post-Soviet life. | | 12 | Vital organs for any human organism: a cleaner of toxins and a pump for blood. | | 13 | Although in the 1990’s some of those who were born and went through elementary school in Imperial Russia, including my own grandmother, were still alive. | | 14 | Pen name of Igor Lotaryov (1887–1941), a hugely successful practitioner of an ego-futuristic brand of pop-poetry, who in 1918 in Moscow was elected by his numerous admirers as “a king of all poets.” In his poem titled State-Before-Resurrection (Предвоскресенье) Igor-Severyanin (Igor-the-Northerner, he insisted it was one long word), with his customarily ecstatic tone, speaks of an inevitable return to life of a “strange country” to the “East of the Ural Mountains,” i.e., Russia, which will occur after a period of civil strife and according to “God’s will.” In contrast, Chernykh’s own tone in Camena is rather restrained. | | 15 | A deliberately confrontational name for a series, for it implied that all those who didn’t publish with “Russian Gulliver” belonged to a crazy wonderland of literary Lilliputians, Laputans, and yahoos. | | 16 | And an admirer of Aleksandr Mironov (1948–2010), a St. Petersburg underground poet, who achieved his “fringe cult genius” status by the 2000’s. Chernykh is always very precise with the details. | | 17 | As Sergey Zavyalov pointed out to me, the Võro language was a language Kaplinski heard and spoke in his childhood, yet it is hard to assess to what degree it could be considered his mother tongue. | | 18 | We met on 22 April 2015 in Moscow, where Jaan accepted the Russian Prize for Poetry, a now defunct major award for the Russian authors living outside Russia. This prize had been awarded to him for his debut poetry collection in Russian White Butterflies of the Night (Tallinn, 2014). | | 19 | Prior to independence, which Estonia gained for the first time through the 1918–1920 war of independence, which was part of a larger civil conflict in the territory of the former Russian Empire between the Bolsheviks and their opponents, the working languages at the University of Tartu were German and Russian. | | 20 | The story was published the same year in the November issue of the St. Petersburg magazine Zvezda. | | 21 | Since this poem is unpublished, this is how this stanza reads in Russian: “Кончается книга, рассказ обо мне,/рассказ, что написан чужими руками./Проснусь ли в чужом или собственном сне,/в чужой стороне, за другими реками?”. | | 22 | Entry in R. M. Rilke’s diary as quoted in the speech of the German president F. W. Steinmeier On the Occasion of the Restitution of St. Peter’s and Paul’s Cathedral in Moscow, on 17 October 2017 https://www.bundespraesident.de/SharedDocs/Reden/EN/Frank-Walter-Steinmeier/Reden/2017/10/171025-Moscow.html (accessed on 28 October 2022). | | 23 | During our discussion of an earlier draft of this essay Natalia Chernykh informed me that she was asked to write an internal review of the White Butterflies of the Night for the Russian Prize Committee. Her very positive review might have played a role in Committee’s final decision. | | 24 | In 2018 Sergey Zavyalov was a member of the Andrei Bely Prize Committee and cast his vote for Kaplinski. | | 25 | Reference to Mark 10:12: “Rising from the dead suffer many things and be set at nought”. | | 26 | In some versions of Russian slang could also mean ‘the abortions’. | | 27 | Cf. Mark 5: 30. | | 28 | Cf. Mark 5: 34. | | 29 | Or ἐργαστήριον, an Ancient Greek, Roman, or Byzantine workshop, a small retailer store, or a combination of both. | | 30 | Dimitrie Kantemiroglu, or Dimitrie Cantemir, or Dimitrij Konstantinovich Kantemir (1673–1723) was an Ottoman, Moldavian, and Russian multilingual writer, composer, and statesmen. A voivode of Moldavia appointed by Turks, he eventually sided with fellow Eastern Orthodox Russians, and after 1711 had a distinguished career within the Russian government (he died as a senator). His earlier works composed in Constantinople included musicological treatise Edvar-i Musiki and dozens of musical compositions (which enjoyed recent revival in Turkey and Western Europe). His son was a great Russian poet and diplomat Antiokh Kantemir. The heritage of the Cantemir (Kantemir) family is equally celebrated in Moldova, Romania, and Russia (including Moscow), where many places are named after them. | | 31 | Paraphrase of Luke 6: 24–25: “But woe unto you that are rich! for ye have received your consolation. Woe unto you that are full! for ye shall hunger. Woe unto you that laugh now! for ye shall mourn and weep”. | | 32 | Paraphrase of Luke 22: 42. | | 33 | Reference to Mark 10: 25: “It is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle, than for a rich man to enter into the kingdom of God”. | | 34 | ‘Evening prayer’ in Uzbek. | | 35 | Uzbek names for a ‘mat for prayer’. | | 36 | Inspired by Koran sura 3, ayat 177; sura 4, ayat 56. | | 37 | Cf. Koran, sura 3, ayat 145. | | 38 | Churka in Russian, a slur applied to the natives of former Soviet republics of Central Asia who don’t speak Russian well. | | 39 | Cf. Koran, sura 3, ayat 21. | | 40 | ‘Night prayer’ in Uzbek. | | 41 | Arabic for ‘Jesus, son of Mary.’ | | 42 | Arabic for ‘Messiah’. | | 43 | He greets them in Mordvinian (Erzya), one of the Finno-Ugric languages of the Volga region. | | 44 | A diminutive Mordvinian form of Alexander. | | 45 | A diminutive Russian form of Roman. | | 46 | Mark 15: 34 and Мatthew 27: 46 as translated into Mordvinian by Makar Yesevyev; quoted from the 1910 Mordvinian edition of the New Testament (Господа нашего Iисуса Христа Святое Евангелiе отъ Матѳея, Марка, Луки и Iоанна на мордовскомъ языкѣ. Казань, 1910. С. 82). | | 47 | Mark 15: 34 and Matthew 27: 46. | | 48 | One of the killers finally speaks to a tractor driver in Mordvinian (Erzya). | | 49 | The dreams of Pharaoh (Genesis 41: 1–7), later interpreted, and therefore correctly “dreamed,” by Joseph (Genesis 41: 24–33). | | 50 | Cf. Genesis 41: 5–7. | | 51 | Cf. Genesis 41: 1–4. | | 52 | A reference to Potiphar’s wife: “And it came to pass after these things, that his master’s wife cast her eyes upon Joseph; and she said, Lie with me” (Genesis 39: 7). | | 53 | Cf.: “Then was fulfilled that which was spoken by Jeremy the prophet, saying, in Ramah was there a voice heard, lamentation, and weeping, and great mourning, Rachel weeping for her children, and would not be comforted, because they are not” (Matthew 2: 17–18). | | 54 | Gangrene. | | 55 | This poem seems to be a commentary on the words of Christ: “Render therefore unto Caesar the things which are Caesar’s; and unto God the things that are God’s” (Matthew 22: 21) and the Russian saying: “Not everything that glitters is gold”. | | 56 | Cf. the initial and final words of the Nicene Creed: “I believe in one God the Father almighty, maker of heaven and earth, and of all things visible and invisible… And I look for the resurrection of the dead, and the life of the world to come. Amen”. | | 57 | (Ivanov 1994, 1: 540), from a poem published in 1955, in the émigré Russian periodical The New Review (New York). Letters Ъ, Ѣ, and Ѳ were struck from the Russian alphabet by the Bolshevik decree of 1918. Yet Ъ was partially restored to the alphabet by the 1960’s as a separation sign between letters indicating consonants and letters Е, Ё, Ю, Я. | | 58 | More commonly known under his penname “Vladimir Lenin”. | | 59 | German name of the Estonian city of Tartu. | | 60 | Some trades in pre-revolutionary St. Petersburg were in the hands of the local Finnish population. | | 61 | The most beautiful public garden in St. Petersburg, full of sculptures. It dates back to the early eighteenth century. | | 62 | A city in Northwestern Russia, distinguished for its medieval architecture. | | 63 | World War II. | | 64 | This poem was composed on the island of Madeira, in the very middle of Atlantic Ocean. | | 65 | Reference to John 2: 13–16. | | 66 | “Triumph of communism, peace in the whole world, self-determination of nations” were typical Soviet slogans of the Leonid Brezhnev era (1970’s and early 1980’s). | | 67 | “To die for faith, czar, and Motherland” was a typical patriotic slogan of the nineteenth and early twentieth-century Czarist Russia. | | 68 | An Upper Palaeolithic female limestone figurine found in 1908 near Willendorf village in Austria. | | 69 | Reference to a keyboard, also to Jacob’s ladder (Genesis: 28: 10–17) and spiritual ladder of Plato and Platonic philosophers. | | 70 | At the beginning of his spiritual journey in Divine Comedy Dante meets three beasts: a lion, a leopard, and a she-wolf. | | 71 | Cf. for example the number of canti (thirty-three) in Dante’s Purgatorio. | | 72 | Dante’s purgatory is a conic structure (a mountain) with the trees of earthly paradise (paradiso terrestre) on top, while sky and open space are the realm of paradise. | | 73 | A citadel in the center of any medieval Russian city. Since Moscow Kremlin is a relatively new, late fifteenth century work of the Florentine architects, Kaplinski is most likely talking about Pskov Kremlin parts of which date back to the tenth century. | | 74 | A reference to Jacob’s dream in which he encountered and fought with God, Who changed Jacob’s name to Israel (Genesis 32: 24–30). | References - Bakhtin, Mikhail (Бахтин, М. М.). 1929. Проблемы творчества Достоевского. Ленинград: Прибой, (Problems of Dostoevsky’s Creative Work. Leningrad: Priboi). [Google Scholar] - Bakhtin, Mikhail (Бахтин, М. М.). 1963. Проблемы поэтики Достоевского. Москва: Советский писатель, (Problems of Dostoevsky’s Poetics. Moscow: Sovetskii pisatel). [Google Scholar] - Bakhtin, Mikhail. 1984. Problems of Dostoevsky’s Poetics. Translated and Edited by Caryl Emerson. Minneapolis: University of Minnesota Press. [Google Scholar] - Chernykh, Natalia (Черных, Наталия). 1996. Приют: Стихи 1992–1996. Москва: Арго-Риск, (Shelter: Poems of 1992–1996. Moscow: Argo-Risk). [Google Scholar] - Chernykh, Natalia (Черных, Наталия). 1997. Виды на жительство: Вторая книга стихов. Москва: Арго-Риск, (Residence Permits: Second Collection of Poems. Moscow: Argo-Risk). [Google Scholar] - Chernykh, Natalia. 2002. Тихий праздник: Книга стихов. Москва: Арго-Риск. Тверь: Kolonna Publications, (Silent Holiday: Book of Poems. Moscow: Argo-Risk; Tver: Kolonna Publications). [Google Scholar] - Chernykh, Natalia. 2007. Камена. Москва: Русский Гулливер, (Camena. Moscow: Russian Gulliver). [Google Scholar] - Chernykh, Natalia. 2009. Похвала бессоннице: Стихи 2006–2008 гг. Москва: Русский Гулливер, (In Praise of Insomnia: Poems of 2006–2008. Moscow: Russian Gulliver). [Google Scholar] - Chernykh, Natalia. 2018. Закрытый показ: Книга стихотворений 2012–2017. Москва: Новое литературное обозрение, (Screening Before the Release: Book of Poems, 2012–2017. Moscow: Novoe literaturnoe obozrenie). [Google Scholar] - Chernykh, Natalia. 2022. Email letter to the author. August 3. [Google Scholar] - Danilov, Dmitry (Данилов, Дмитрий). 2010. Горизонтальное положение: Роман. Москва: Эксмо, (Horizontal Position: A Novel. Moscow: Eksmo). [Google Scholar] - Gorbunova, Alla (Горбунова, Алла). 2020. Конец света, моя любовь: Рассказы. Москва: Новое литературное обозрение, (End of the World, My Love: Short Stories. Moscow: Novoe literaturnoe obozrenie). [Google Scholar] - Ivanov, Georgy (Иванов, Георгий). 1994. Собрание сочинений: В 4 т. Москва: Согласие, (Collected Works in 4 Volumes. Moscow: Soglasie). [Google Scholar] - Kaplinskii, Yan (Каплинскiй, Янъ). 2014. Бѣлыя быбочки ночи: Стихи. Таллиннъ: Kite, (White Butterflies of the Night: Poems. Tallinn: Kite). [Google Scholar] - Kaplinskii, Yan (Каплинский, Ян). 2017. Улыбка Вегенера: Книга стихов. Ozolnieki: Literature Without Borders, (Wegener’s Smile: Book of Poems. Ozolnieki: Literature Without Borders). [Google Scholar] - Kaplinskii, Yan. 2018. Наши тени так длинны: Стихотворения и переводы. Москва: Новое литературное обозрение, (Our Shadows Are So Long: Poems and Verse Translations. Moscow: Novoe literaturnoe obozrenie). [Google Scholar] - Kaplinskii, Yan. 2021. За другими реками: Стихи. Пайде: Kite, (Beyond Other Rivers: Poems. Paide: Kite). [Google Scholar] - Kaplinskii, Yan. 2022. Отпечаток крылатого пальца: Стихотворения. Пайде: Kite, (Winged Fingerprint: Poems. Paide: Kite). [Google Scholar] - Khodasevich, Vladislav (Ходасевич, Владислав). 1996–1997. Собрание сочинений: В 4 т. Москва: Согласие, (Collected Works in 4 Volumes. Moscow: Soglasie). [Google Scholar] - Kondrat’ev, Vasilii (Кондратьев, Василий). 2020. Показания поэтов: Повести, рассказы, эссе, заметки. Москва: Новое литературное обозрение, (Testimonies of the Poets: Stories, Short Stories, Essays, Reviews. Moscow: Novoe literaturnoe obozrenie). [Google Scholar] - Lomonosov, M. V. (Ломоносов, М. В.). 1950–1983. Полное собрание сочинений: В 11 т. Москва-Ленинград: Издательство АН СССР/Наука, (Complete Works in 11 Volumes. Moscow-Leningrad: USSR Academy of Sciences/Nauka). [Google Scholar] - Orlitskii, Yu. B. (Орлицкий, Ю. Б.). 2021. Стихосложение новейшей русской поэзии, 2-е издание ed. Москва: Издательский Дом ЯСК, (Versification of the Newest Russian Poetry, 2nd ed. Moscow: YaSK Publishing House). [Google Scholar] - Rybakova, Maria (Рыбакова, Мария). 2011. Гнедич: Роман. Москва: Время, (Gnedich: A Novel. Moscow: Vremya). [Google Scholar] - Shubinsky, Valery. 2021. “Kaplinskii” [sic!]. Facebook. August 9. Available online: https://www.facebook.com/shubatv/posts/pfbid02WxuUmx1tiTaB6Xrp37oyeeXXpD4cPye3kQE6dL8NjPjSsM5trsTk2ErByGXDns8Sl (accessed on 28 October 2022). - Vishnevetskii, Igor (Вишневецкий, Игорь). 2012. Ленинград: Повесть. Москва: Время, (Leningrad: A Story. Moscow: Vremya). [Google Scholar] - Zavyalov, Sergey. 2017. Advent: Leningrad, 1941. Translated by Peter McCarey. Geneva: Molecular Press. [Google Scholar] - Zavyalov, Sergey. 2022. Email letter to the author. June 24. [Google Scholar] - Zav’ialov, Sergei (Завьялов, Сергей). 1994. Оды и эподы. Санкт-Петербург: Борей-арт, (Odes and Epodes. St. Petersburg: Boreas-Art). [Google Scholar] - Zav’ialov, Sergei. 2013. «Ретромодернизм в ленинградской поэзии 1970-х годов». In Вторая культура: Неофициальная поэзия Ленинграда в 1970—1980-е годы: Материалы международной конференции (Женева, 1–3 марта 2012 г). Санкт-Петербург: Росток, pp. 30–52, (“Retro-modernism in Leningrad Poetry of the 1970’s and 1980’s.” In Second Culture: Unofficial Poetry of Leningrad in the 1970’s and 1980’s. Proceedings of the International Conference (Geneva, March 1–3, 2012). St. Petersburg: Rostok, pp. 30–52). [Google Scholar] - Zav’ialov, Sergei. 2018. Стихотворения и поэмы 1993–2017. Москва: Новое литературное обозрение, (Lyrical and Narrative Poems 1993–2017. Moscow: Novoe literaturnoe obozrenie). [Google Scholar] - Zav’ialov, Sergei. 2022. Оды: 1984—1990. Санкт-Петербург-Москва: Rugram/Пальмира, (Odes: 1984—1990. St. Petersburg-Moscow: Rugram/Palmyra). [Google Scholar] Publisher’s Note: MDPI stays neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional affiliations. | © 2022 by the author. Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland. This article is an open access article distributed under the terms and conditions of the Creative Commons Attribution (CC BY) license (https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/). Share and Cite Vishnevetsky, I.G. Three Contemporary Russian Poets and Biblical Tradition: Sergey Zavyalov, Natalia Chernykh, Jaan Kaplinski. Religions 2022, 13, 1103. https://doi.org/10.3390/rel13111103 Vishnevetsky IG. Three Contemporary Russian Poets and Biblical Tradition: Sergey Zavyalov, Natalia Chernykh, Jaan Kaplinski. Religions. 2022; 13(11):1103. https://doi.org/10.3390/rel13111103 Chicago/Turabian StyleVishnevetsky, Igor Georgievich. 2022. "Three Contemporary Russian Poets and Biblical Tradition: Sergey Zavyalov, Natalia Chernykh, Jaan Kaplinski" Religions 13, no. 11: 1103. https://doi.org/10.3390/rel13111103 APA StyleVishnevetsky, I. G. (2022). Three Contemporary Russian Poets and Biblical Tradition: Sergey Zavyalov, Natalia Chernykh, Jaan Kaplinski. Religions, 13(11), 1103. https://doi.org/10.3390/rel13111103
