=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Maria Toor becomes first female Nash Cup champion - Sport ...]
Sep 21, 2013 · Pakistan’s squash player Maria Toorpakai Wazir put her name in the history books by winning the first ever women’s event in the Nash Cup in Canada by beating Milou van der Heijden of the ...
URL: https://www.dawn.com/news/1044455

[Maria Toor becomes first female Nash Cup champion]
4 days ago · Pakistan s squash player Maria Toorpakai Wazir put her name in the history books by winning the first ever women s event in the Nash Cup in Canada by beating Milou van der Heijden of the Netherlands 13-11, 11-3, 11-9. The victory gave Maria, who hails from South Waziristan, the third title of...
URL: https://defence.pk/threads/maria-toor-becomes-first-female-nash-cup-champion.279120/

[Winning laurels: A story of courage and perseverance]
Sep 22, 2013 · Tribal female squash player wins first-ever women Nash Cup in Canada.
URL: https://tribune.com.pk/story/607668/winning-laurels-a-story-of-courage-and-perseverance

[Maria Toor becomes first female Nash Cup champion]
Sep 21, 2013 · Pakistan’s squash player Maria Toorpakai Wazir put her name in the history books by winning the first ever women’s event in the Nash Cup in Canada by beating Milou van der Heijden of the Netherlands 13-11, 11-3, 11-9.
URL: https://www.siasat.pk/threads/maria-toor-becomes-first-female-nash-cup-champion.209246/

[Squash Info | Women's NASH Cup: Event History (12 events) | Squash]
Women's NASH Cup: Event History (12 events) Actions: Men's History | Show Concise History
URL: https://www.squashinfo.com/history/729/womens/nash-cup/all


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Maria Toor becomes first female Nash Cup champion - Sport ...] ---
Pakistan’s squash player Maria Toorpakai Wazir put her name in the history books by winning the first ever women’s event in the Nash Cup in Canada by beating Milou van der Heijden of the Netherlands 13-11, 11-3, 11-9. The victory gave Maria, who hails from South Waziristan, the third title of her WSA career after she won the Southwest Squash Open and the Liberty Bell Open last year in the US and was another milestone in her journey of immense courage and perseverance. “When I win a tournament, I feel that I am moving towards my goals. So winning today means a lot to me,” Maria said after winning the Nash Cup. Maria who had faced stiff opposition in her native Bannu for playing sport, often posed as a boy to compete in matches in her conservative hometown. She moved to Peshawar in 1999 to pursue her love for squash. Upon her move, Maria was immediately inducted into the Hashim Khan Complex, named after the first great player to emerge from a Pakistani dynasty of squash players which dominated the international game for decades. It was in Peshawar where Maria’s father really began to realise the true potential his daughter had. Representing Warsak High School in Peshawar, Maria became the youngest ever winner of the National Women’s Squash Championship toppling top seed Muqaddas Ashraf of Punjab in straight sets in the final at Karachi Club squash court in 2004. She was 13 at the time and while the cash prize of Rs. 8,500 and a crystal trophy felt good, it was really the satisfaction of being better than everyone that was to accelerate Maria’s drive. She quickly swatted away her competition, winning an Under-15 tournament and then at 15 winning the Under-19 Hashim Khan National junior championship in 2005. She scaled up the national rankings, Dunlop racquet in hand and Mohammad Ali-like confidence, often calling her self the world’s best squash player in some of her post-match press conferences. It was this self belief and great form that finally brought her to the world stage, joining the WISPA in 2006. She was immediately at ease on the international circuit as well, reaching the semi-final stage of the 2nd WISPA International Women’s Squash Championship at the POF Jahangir Khan Complex in Islamabad. In early August 2007 she was given the Salaam Pakistan Award by the President of Pakistan, alongside tennis player Aisam-ul-Haq Qureshi and footballer Muhammad Essa. The year 2009 saw her win her first international tournament when she beat the same opponent she had defeated as a 13-year-old. Muqaddas Ashraf once again succumbed to Maria’s power and agility losing the Chief of Army Staff International squash tournament. But it was in 2011 that her fortunes really changed. After learning of a job opening at Canadian squash legend Jonathan Power's National Squash Academy in Toronto, Maria wrote an emotional letter to Power about the difficulty of training freely in Peshawar and about her aspirations of following in the footsteps of Pakistani greats. Moved by the plea, Power immediately took the young talent under his wings and vowed to make her a world champion. The academy in Toronto gave Maria “10 out of 10” as far as talent was concerned but a lack of proper training meant she had a long way to go before she could compete with the top stars in the world. Her grit and determination, however, meant that it wasn’t going to be long until that happened. Two titles in 2012, qualification in the British Open main draw (a first for Pakistani female players) and now the Nash Cup. For Power, who was in attendance at the London Squash & Fitness Club in Ontario, Maria seems to be headed in the right direction.


--- [Maria Toor becomes first female Nash Cup champion] ---
Jango SENIOR MODERATOR - Joined - Sep 12, 2010 - Messages - 21,530 - Reaction score - 99 - Country - Location Pakistans squash player Maria Toorpakai Wazir put her name in the history books by winning the first ever womens event in the Nash Cup in Canada by beating Milou van der Heijden of the Netherlands 13-11, 11-3, 11-9. The victory gave Maria, who hails from South Waziristan, the third title of her WSA career after she won the Southwest Squash Open and the Liberty Bell Open last year in the US and was another milestone in her journey of immense courage and perseverance. When I win a tournament, I feel that I am moving towards my goals. So winning today means a lot to me, Maria said after winning the Nash Cup. Maria who had faced stiff opposition in her native Bannu for playing sport, often posed as a boy to compete in matches in her conservative hometown. She moved to Peshawar in 1999 to pursue her love for squash. Upon her move, Maria was immediately inducted into the Hashim Khan Complex, named after the first great player to emerge from a Pakistani dynasty of squash players which dominated the international game for decades. It was in Peshawar where Marias father really began to realise the true potential his daughter had. Representing Warsak High School in Peshawar, Maria became the youngest ever winner of the National Womens Squash Championship toppling top seed Muqaddas Ashraf of Punjab in straight sets in the final at Karachi Club squash court in 2004. She was 13 at the time and while the cash prize of Rs. 8,500 and a crystal trophy felt good, it was really the satisfaction of being better than everyone that was to accelerate Marias drive. She quickly swatted away her competition, winning an Under-15 tournament and then at 15 winning the Under-19 Hashim Khan National junior championship in 2005. She scaled up the national rankings, Dunlop racquet in hand and Mohammad Ali-like confidence, often calling her self the worlds best squash player in some of her post-match press conferences. It was this self belief and great form that finally brought her to the world stage, joining the WISPA in 2006. She was immediately at ease on the international circuit as well, reaching the semi-final stage of the 2nd WISPA International Womens Squash Championship at the POF Jahangir Khan Complex in Islamabad. In early August 2007 she was given the Salaam Pakistan Award by the President of Pakistan, alongside tennis player Aisam-ul-Haq Qureshi and footballer Muhammad Essa. The year 2009 saw her win her first international tournament when she beat the same opponent she had defeated as a 13-year-old. Muqaddas Ashraf once again succumbed to Marias power and agility losing the Chief of Army Staff International squash tournament. But it was in 2011 that her fortunes really changed. After learning of a job opening at Canadian squash legend Jonathan Power's National Squash Academy in Toronto, Maria wrote an emotional letter to Power about the difficulty of training freely in Peshawar and about her aspirations of following in the footsteps of Pakistani greats. Moved by the plea, Power immediately took the young talent under his wings and vowed to make her a world champion. The academy in Toronto gave Maria 10 out of 10 as far as talent was concerned but a lack of proper training meant she had a long way to go before she could compete with the top stars in the world. Her grit and determination, however, meant that it wasnt going to be long until that happened. Two titles in 2012, qualification in the British Open main draw (a first for Pakistani female players) and now the Nash Cup. For Power, who was in attendance at the London Squash & Fitness Club in Ontario, Maria seems to be headed in the right direction. Maria Toor becomes first female Nash Cup champion - DAWN.COM The victory gave Maria, who hails from South Waziristan, the third title of her WSA career after she won the Southwest Squash Open and the Liberty Bell Open last year in the US and was another milestone in her journey of immense courage and perseverance. When I win a tournament, I feel that I am moving towards my goals. So winning today means a lot to me, Maria said after winning the Nash Cup. Maria who had faced stiff opposition in her native Bannu for playing sport, often posed as a boy to compete in matches in her conservative hometown. She moved to Peshawar in 1999 to pursue her love for squash. Upon her move, Maria was immediately inducted into the Hashim Khan Complex, named after the first great player to emerge from a Pakistani dynasty of squash players which dominated the international game for decades. It was in Peshawar where Marias father really began to realise the true potential his daughter had. Representing Warsak High School in Peshawar, Maria became the youngest ever winner of the National Womens Squash Championship toppling top seed Muqaddas Ashraf of Punjab in straight sets in the final at Karachi Club squash court in 2004. She was 13 at the time and while the cash prize of Rs. 8,500 and a crystal trophy felt good, it was really the satisfaction of being better than everyone that was to accelerate Marias drive. She quickly swatted away her competition, winning an Under-15 tournament and then at 15 winning the Under-19 Hashim Khan National junior championship in 2005. She scaled up the national rankings, Dunlop racquet in hand and Mohammad Ali-like confidence, often calling her self the worlds best squash player in some of her post-match press conferences. It was this self belief and great form that finally brought her to the world stage, joining the WISPA in 2006. She was immediately at ease on the international circuit as well, reaching the semi-final stage of the 2nd WISPA International Womens Squash Championship at the POF Jahangir Khan Complex in Islamabad. In early August 2007 she was given the Salaam Pakistan Award by the President of Pakistan, alongside tennis player Aisam-ul-Haq Qureshi and footballer Muhammad Essa. The year 2009 saw her win her first international tournament when she beat the same opponent she had defeated as a 13-year-old. Muqaddas Ashraf once again succumbed to Marias power and agility losing the Chief of Army Staff International squash tournament. But it was in 2011 that her fortunes really changed. After learning of a job opening at Canadian squash legend Jonathan Power's National Squash Academy in Toronto, Maria wrote an emotional letter to Power about the difficulty of training freely in Peshawar and about her aspirations of following in the footsteps of Pakistani greats. Moved by the plea, Power immediately took the young talent under his wings and vowed to make her a world champion. The academy in Toronto gave Maria 10 out of 10 as far as talent was concerned but a lack of proper training meant she had a long way to go before she could compete with the top stars in the world. Her grit and determination, however, meant that it wasnt going to be long until that happened. Two titles in 2012, qualification in the British Open main draw (a first for Pakistani female players) and now the Nash Cup. For Power, who was in attendance at the London Squash & Fitness Club in Ontario, Maria seems to be headed in the right direction. Maria Toor becomes first female Nash Cup champion - DAWN.COM


--- [Winning laurels: A story of courage and perseverance] ---
Winning laurels: A story of courage and perseverance Tribal female squash player wins first-ever women Nash Cup in Canada. For many the mere mention of Wana conjures up images of ferocious Taliban fighters and a medieval, patriarchal society. If you also think so, people like Maria Toorpakai Wazir makes you think again. Toorpakai, who hails from Wana, the headquarters of the South Waziristan tribal agency, the birthplace of the dreaded Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan, is a top female squash player of Pakistan. She has been consistently winning laurels. On Saturday, 22-year-old Toorpakai claimed the inaugural Nash Cup Ladies Tournament in Ontario, Canada, beating Milou van der Heijden of the Netherlands. It was the third international title after she won the Southwest Squash Open and the Liberty Bell Open last year in the United States. Currently, she is ranked 55th in the world. Toorpakai’s story is one of courage, perseverance and hard work. She fought against odds to pursue her passion: squash. “I used to dress up like boys and play with my brothers because girls [in the conservative society] were just supposed to be indoors doing domestic chores. I was always into sports, I always wanted to play outside so the only way was to disguise as a boy because people won’t let their girls go outside,” Toorpakai told The Express Tribune in a 2010 interview. Toorpakai shifted to Peshawar in 1999 where she joined the Hashim Khan Complex – but not as a female player. “At the gym I pretended to be a boy because there were no women players there back then, it was only after a couple of months that everyone at the gym found out that I was a girl,” Toorpakai had told The Express Tribune. She left Pakistan, disappointed and disillusioned, after the Pakistan Squash Federation turned down her request for more facilities for women players. “It is ironic. I broke away from my tribal background just to get caught with the gender bias in the federation. They like their male players more,” she had said in 2010 interview. She was also depressed by the rising extremist violence in the country and its impact on sport. “Since terrorism has damaged sport in Pakistan and we are not hosting any international event anymore, players don’t have a choice,” she had said. Only months after the interview she moved to Canada to join Canadian squash legend Jonathan Power’s National Squash Academy in Toronto. Pakistan’s national head coach says Toorpakai is beacon for all. “Because of the hardships she has suffered, Toorpakai has become an inspiration not only for players in Pakistan, but for female players all over the world,” said Jamshed Gul. “Players [should] take a leaf out of her book – winning these tournaments as a Pakistani is a source of pride.” He says Toorpakai should start playing in bigger events to improve her ranking quickly. “She is representing Pakistan quite well internationally. Such victories help in putting forth a positive projection of the country. I can only say that I’m proud of this win, and I hope she will continue to climb up the ranking charts,” said Gul. Power play Saturday’s win was not easy for Toorpakai who was faced with top-seeded Milou van der Heijden. However, in the end she managed to vanquish her in straight sets: 13-11, 11-3 and 11-9. In the first set, Toorpakai played at a high pace, but the opponent resisted well and put up a tough fight. The second set was relatively easy, as van der Heijden made too many errors. In the third set the Dutch player made a comeback, leveling the scores after being 9-5 down. However, Toorpakai held her own, and won the next two points to clinch the title. “When I win a tournament, I feel that I’m moving towards my goal,” said Toorpakai, according to the official website of the Nash Cup. “Today’s win means a lot to me, as I was nervous. I played well and that helped control my nerves.” The losing finalist also had words of appreciation for Toorpakai. “She is a very physical player,” stated van der Heijden. “After going 2-0 down, I was not going to just lie down without a fight, but she did play better than me today.” Published in The Express Tribune, September 22nd, 2013. COMMENTS Replying to X Comments are moderated and generally will be posted if they are on-topic and not abusive. For more information, please see our Comments FAQ


--- [Maria Toor becomes first female Nash Cup champion] ---
Machar Chief Minister (5k+ posts) Pakistan’s squash player Maria Toorpakai Wazir put her name in the history books by winning the first ever women’s event in the Nash Cup in Canada by beating Milou van der Heijden of the Netherlands 13-11, 11-3, 11-9. The victory gave Maria, who hails from South Waziristan, the third title of her WSA career after she won the Southwest Squash Open and the Liberty Bell Open last year in the US and was another milestone in her journey of immense courage and perseverance. “When I win a tournament, I feel that I am moving towards my goals. So winning today means a lot to me,” Maria said after winning the Nash Cup. Maria who had faced stiff opposition in her native Bannu for playing sport, often posed as a boy to compete in matches in her conservative hometown. She moved to Peshawar in 1999 to pursue her love for squash. Upon her move, Maria was immediately inducted into the Hashim Khan Complex, named after the first great player to emerge from a Pakistani dynasty of squash players which dominated the international game for decades. It was in Peshawar where Maria’s father really began to realise the true potential his daughter had. Representing Warsak High School in Peshawar, Maria became the youngest ever winner of the National Women’s Squash Championship toppling top seed Muqaddas Ashraf of Punjab in straight sets in the final at Karachi Club squash court in 2004. She was 13 at the time and while the cash prize of Rs. 8,500 and a crystal trophy felt good, it was really the satisfaction of being better than everyone that was to accelerate Maria’s drive. She quickly swatted away her competition, winning an Under-15 tournament and then at 15 winning the Under-19 Hashim Khan National junior championship in 2005. She scaled up the national rankings, Dunlop racquet in hand and Mohammad Ali-like confidence, often calling her self the world’s best squash player in some of her post-match press conferences. It was this self belief and great form that finally brought her to the world stage, joining the WISPA in 2006. She was immediately at ease on the international circuit as well, reaching the semi-final stage of the 2nd WISPA International Women’s Squash Championship at the POF Jahangir Khan Complex in Islamabad. In early August 2007 she was given the Salaam Pakistan Award by the President of Pakistan, alongside tennis player Aisam-ul-Haq Qureshi and footballer Muhammad Essa. The year 2009 saw her win her first international tournament when she beat the same opponent she had defeated as a 13-year-old. Muqaddas Ashraf once again succumbed to Maria’s power and agility losing the Chief of Army Staff International squash tournament. But it was in 2011 that her fortunes really changed. After learning of a job opening at Canadian squash legend Jonathan Power's National Squash Academy in Toronto, Maria wrote an emotional letter to Power about the difficulty of training freely in Peshawar and about her aspirations of following in the footsteps of Pakistani greats. Moved by the plea, Power immediately took the young talent under his wings and vowed to make her a world champion. The academy in Toronto gave Maria “10 out of 10” as far as talent was concerned but a lack of proper training meant she had a long way to go before she could compete with the top stars in the world. Her grit and determination, however, meant that it wasn’t going to be long until that happened. Two titles in 2012, qualification in the British Open main draw (a first for Pakistani female players) and now the Nash Cup. For Power, who was in attendance at the London Squash & Fitness Club in Ontario, Maria seems to be headed in the right direction. http://dawn.com/news/1044455/maria-toor-becomes-first-female-nash-cup-champion Last edited by a moderator:


--- [Squash Info | Women's NASH Cup: Event History (12 events) | Squash] ---
Sep 2024 London, Ontario, Canada Only events in the last 6 months are publicly available. To view the results of this event, you must log in to or sign up for a premium account.
