=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Manchester City - Real Madrid, 26/04/2016 - UEFA Champions League ...]
This is the match sheet of the UEFA Champions League game between Manchester City and Real Madrid on 26/04/2016.
URL: https://www.transfermarkt.com/manchester-city_real-madrid/index/spielbericht/2682239

[Manchester City Vs Real Madrid Yellow Card Tarjeta Amarilla Pepe ...]
Yellow Card Tarjeta Amarilla Pepe Blessing Kevin De Bruyne Man City Vs Real Madrid 26-04-2016 Champion League HD
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=X4Mb0GyRL1s

[Manchester City 0-0 Real Madrid: Joe Hart denies Pepe with late save]
Share or comment on this article: Manchester City 0-0 Real Madrid: Joe Hart denies Pepe with super late save as Champions League semi-final first leg ends goalless
URL: https://www.dailymail.co.uk/sport/football/article-3560110/Manchester-City-0-0-Real-Madrid-Joe-Hart-denies-Pepe-super-late-save-Champions-League-semi-final-leg-ends-goalless.html

[Player Ratings: Manchester City Vs. Real Madrid, 2016 UEFA Champions League]
Apr 27, 2016 · Towards, the last seconds of the game, the RB wisely sacrificed himself to get a yellow card after a foul on De Bruyne which could’ve ended up with a very dangerous opportunity for Manchester...
URL: https://www.managingmadrid.com/2016/4/27/11512964/ucl-manchester-city-vs-real-madrid-player-ratings

[Champions League Yellow and Red Cards - UCL Suspension List - MARCA]
Get all the latest updates on the Champions League Yellow and Red Cards on Marca. Full Champions League yellow and red card list, suspended players and more.
URL: https://www.marca.com/en/football/champions-league/cards.html


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Manchester City - Real Madrid, 26/04/2016 - UEFA Champions League ...] ---
Timeline Line-Ups Starting Line-up: 4-2-3-1 | 13 | Willy Caballero | GK | | 20 | Eliaquim Mangala | CB | | 11 | Aleksandar Kolarov | LB | | 5 | Pablo Zabaleta | RB | | 18 | Fabian Delph | CM | | 7 | Raheem Sterling | RW | | 72 | Kelechi Iheanacho | CF | | Manager: | Manuel Pellegrini | Starting Line-up: 4-3-3 Attacking | 13 | Kiko Casilla | GK | | 23 | Danilo | CB | | 2 | Raphaël Varane | CB | | 16 | Mateo Kovacic | CM | | 22 | Isco | AM | | 10 | James Rodríguez | AM | | 20 | Jesé | LW | | Manager: | Zinédine Zidane |


--- [Manchester City Vs Real Madrid Yellow Card Tarjeta Amarilla Pepe ...] ---
About Press Copyright Contact us Creators Advertise Developers Impressum Cancel Memberships Terms Privacy Policy & Safety How YouTube works Test new features © 2026 Google LLC


--- [Manchester City 0-0 Real Madrid: Joe Hart denies Pepe with late save] ---
Manchester City 0-0 Real Madrid: Joe Hart denies Pepe with super late save as Champions League semi-final first leg ends goalless - Cristiano Ronaldo was forced to watch from the stands after failing a late fitness test ahead of the match - David Silva was replaced by Kelechi Iheanacho in the 40th minute after appearing to tweak a hamstring - Jese hit the bar for Real Madrid, while Joe Hart was in fine form to deny both Pepe and Casemiro late on - Gareth Bale had a penalty appeal turned down as Manuel Pellegrini's side held on at the Etihad Stadium - Second leg of the Champions League semi-final takes place at the Santiago Bernabeu on Wednesday, May 4 - READ: Martin Keown's player ratings as Karim Benzema struggles up front before being taken off No Cristiano Ronaldo, no Karim Benzema after half-time, but no end to the deadlock for Manchester City. The only thing tighter than this game was Zinedine Zidane’s trousers, which he split for the second time this season. At least someone got excited then. Manchester City and Real Madrid otherwise played out one of those European ties that purists claim is like a chess match. And indeed it was. A largely unremarkable chess match; one that ends in an unsatisfying stalemate. The best chances came near the end, four from Real Madrid and one from City in injury time that constituted their only shot on target all game. The first rule of these fixtures, however, is not to do an Arsenal and get knocked out before the second leg, so by that measure City are still in with a puncher’s chance. Manchester City goalkeeper Joe Hart does brilliantly to stop a close-range effort from Real Madrid defender Pepe late in the game England No 1 Hart drops to the turf to keep out Pepe's strike, which would have given Real Madrid a potentially crucial away goal Real Madrid superstar Cristiano Ronaldo was forced to watch the first leg from the stands after failing a late fitness test Manchester City midfielder Kevin De Bruyne sprints away from Real Madrid defender Pepe during Tuesday evening's first leg Real Madrid forward Gareth Bale controls the ball as Manchester City midfielder Fernando races towards him at the Etihad Stadium Score at the Bernabeu and Real Madrid will need two. Sir Alex Ferguson and Arsene Wenger hated goalless draws away from home in Europe. They thought it left their teams deceptively vulnerable. Zidane will be confident of scoring, of course, particularly if Ronaldo is fit again, but fearful too of City on the break. Their one chance here showed how a game can change in a matter of seconds. Had Kevin De Bruyne’s free-kick gone in, it would have spelt disaster for Madrid. The clock was counting down through injury time when De Bruyne sped away on the left. He got the better of Dani Carvajal, who made the foul and took the booking, and De Bruyne stood over the free-kick, bodies jostling for position in the box. He ignored them all and went for goal instead, his shot dipping and requiring the first serious intervention from Madrid goalkeeper Keylor Navas, who tipped it over. City would certainly take that, with a little more accuracy and less than 10 minutes to go, next week. A single away goal, at the right time, is the equivalent of a knockout punch in European football. Manchester City captain Vincent Kompany fouls Casemiro as he rises to get his head to a cross from the right during the first half Sergio Aguero (centre), who used to play for Real Madrid's rivals Atletico Madrid, lifts his left leg high into the air to try and win the ball Real Madrid forward Bale watches on as his left-footed strike curls just wide of Hart's Manchester City goal during the second half Silva, who was replaced by striker Kelechi Iheanacho in the 40th minute, went straight down the tunnel after picking up an injury Lucas Vazquez (left) challenges City winger Jesus Navas for the ball during the first Champions League semi-final of the season Real Madrid goalkeeper Keylor Navas tips over a free-kick from De Bruyne during stoppage time at the end of the second period Madrid threatened to land a few of those in the second half. Having impressed only with their organisation for much of the match, they could have scored four times after the break, hitting the bar and producing two outstanding saves from Joe Hart. What a trooper he has been in Europe this season. Madrid captain Sergio Ramos should have done better with a free header after 54 minutes, Vincent Kompany having lost his man, and with 20 minutes remaining a cross from Lucas Vazquez — the replacement for the injured Ronaldo, homegrown no less — picked out substitute Jese. His header went on a high arc, defeating Hart, but hitting the bar, the only time all evening that England’s goalkeeper was at a loss. That Jese was even on, however, shows the opportunity Manchester City spurned. Ronaldo did not make it to the starting blocks, Benzema pulled out halfway, with Jese his half-time replacement. Yet still Madrid’s goal remained largely untroubled. City may have enjoyed periods of good possession, but the best chances fell to Madrid. Real Madrid manager Zinedine Zidane has an early touch of the ball during Tuesday night's Champions League semi-final first leg Navas puts pressure on Real Madrid defender Marcelo (right) as the Real Madrid man tries to turn defence into attack Manchester City defender Gael Clichy (centre) bursts towards Real Madrid's box as Manuel Pellegrini's side go on the attack Real Madrid defender Sergio Ramos rises highest to head the ball away while under pressure from Manchester City striker Aguero Former Tottenham winger Bale leaps over a sliding challenge from Navas as Real Madrid push for an away goal in Manchester A corner from the right after 79 minutes picked out Brazilian defensive screen Casemiro — one of the night’s outstanding players, which says a lot about the balance of play — but his header was superbly stopped by Hart, with his feet, in the manner of David de Gea. A free-kick for Madrid on the edge of the area a minute later also looked dangerous but Gareth Bale blasted it tamely into the wall. From the corner, Hart made the save of the night. Headed on by Bale, the ball fell to Pepe in so much space he was initially presumed offside. A flag went up, then down, and in that split-second Hart threw himself at the danger as if smothering a grenade. Pepe hit his shot hard, but it cannoned off Hart. It was a magnificent stop. Hart didn’t have much to do, but what he did proved vital. City will not be without injury woes in the second leg, either. The loss of David Silva is not the hammer blow it would once have been but what appeared to be a hamstring tweak after 40 minutes could keep him out for the remainder of the season. If that is bad news for Silva, however, it may even be worse for Raheem Sterling, whose £50million transfer from Liverpool is in danger of veering into ‘what-a-waste-of-money’ territory. Surely he would have been the perfect, like-for-like replacement for Silva, an inventive presence coming inside from the left flank and linking up with Sergio Aguero. Frenchmen Bacary Sagna (left) and Karim Benzema battle for the ball during a feisty opening period at the Etihad Stadium Real Madrid's Vazquez (centre) reacts after having the ball volleyed into his midriff by Manchester City defender Kompany (left) Real Madrid midfielder Luka Modric (left) runs with the ball as Fernandinho pursues him during the Champions League semi-final first leg Bale unsuccessfully appeals for a penalty to Turkish referee Cuneyt Cakir after going down inside Manchester City's area City supporters have a complicated relationship with the Champions League, but they helped create a special atmosphere before kick-off Apparently not. Instead it was Kelechi Iheanacho’s number that was held up — and the warm reception from the home support confirmed this was not considered a maverick call by Manuel Pellegrini. There were no moans, no exclamations of surprise. They wanted the teenager, too, and while Iheanacho had a quiet game, Sterling’s late arrival did nothing to convince that he should have been favoured. Put through with only Pepe standing guard, his first touch was so heavy it was frustratingly easy for the Madrid man to sweep up. It wasn’t a dull game but it was for long periods an uneventful one with City unable to break down a Madrid side who were surprisingly content to sit in tight defensive banks, waiting out the draw and allowing the cavalry to arrive in the replay. The game missed its star turn, no doubt of that. Ronaldo’s return to Manchester was the snap in the elastic and when his name was missing from the team sheet, City fans were no doubt torn between delight at his absence, and disappointment at the loss of the spectacle. He is a huge influence on nights like this. He has played 36 of Madrid’s last 37 games in Europe, and the one time he sat out previously, his team went down 2-0 to Borussia Dortmund. Ronaldo appears to sing along with the Champions League anthem after taking his place in the stands to watch Real Madrid in action Real Madrid midfielder Casemiro (right) pokes the ball away from Aguero (left) as City midfielder Fernando watches on De Bruyne, who scored City's winning goal against PSG in their quarter-final second leg, is sent flying by a tackle from Casemiro Real Madrid goalkeeper Keylor Navas, who almost joined Manchester United last summer, tries to stop the ball from going out of play There was no danger of that here, but it took Madrid a while to find their mojo without him — and they will be a different proposition if he is in the team next week. Madrid win 71 per cent of their European games with him, 43 per cent when he is missing. Ask Wolfsburg what he can do with his dander up. City will be optimistic, too, although one cannot help but think that, while it wasn’t a poor result, it was a missed chance. This was Madrid at their least potent, yet they flew home with barely a scratch. City have to find a way of putting Real under at least as much pressure as the seat of Zidane’s trousers, or they will not last in the heat of the Bernabeu. Madrid’s aggregate score there in the Champions League this season? 18-0. Most watched Sport videos - Moment NBA star accidentally kicks female fan in the face - Stuart MacGill blows up at podcast host in heated exchange - Dispatch audio from Dominiq Ponder's fatal car accident - Jules Neale takes a very public shot at ex Lachie - NFL-bound football star battles through severe stutter - Highlanders' ninth-inning comeback hours after Raccuia's death - Michael Jordan makes hilarious admission after NASCAR win - Iranian women's squad remain silent during country's national anthem - Bombs heard as US basketballer in Israel tries to find shelter - NFL Draft prospect gets emotional after performance in Combine - Aaron Wan-Bissaka: 'I was written off - but I never gave up' - Noisy horn malfunction keeps NBA game delayed 18 minutes


--- [Player Ratings: Manchester City Vs. Real Madrid, 2016 UEFA Champions League] ---
Keylor Navas - 7 Player Ratings: Manchester City Vs. Real Madrid, 2016 UEFA Champions League Sunny day in Manchester, grey day on the pitch. The Real Madrid keeper did not have much work to do at all tonight, except a tip over after a free kick shot from De Bruyne and a cross interception. Navas was basically a spectator with gloves tonight.. Dani Carvajal - 7.5 Carvajal was the best defender on the pitch tonight. The fullback did extremely well marking De Bruyne and dealing with Silva when he was on the field. The Real Madrid graduate made various crucial interceptions and showed real determination and skill when dealing with City’s forwards. Offensively Carvajal was extremely active completed 3 take ons and from his 5 crosses, only one chance was created. Defensively, the Leganes native was a lot more influential, having made 4 interceptions, 3 clearances and 3 blocks. Towards, the last seconds of the game, the RB wisely sacrificed himself to get a yellow card after a foul on De Bruyne which could’ve ended up with a very dangerous opportunity for Manchester City. Pepe - 7 The Portuguese was the best part of the CB duo tonight for Real Madrid. Although he had a couple reckless tackles including one on De Bruyne and another one on Aguero, Pepe was vital for Madrid tonight. The Portuguese had 2 interceptions, 7 clearances, and surprisingly only 2 fouls. Offensively, Pepe only had one highlight and that was his shot at point blank range in front of Hart’s goal which the Manchester City keeper stopped with his stomach in what proved to be the last opportunity Real Madrid had tonight. Sergio Ramos - 6.5 A first half performance to forget for Sergio Ramos. Once again, the Real Madrid captain was tremulous on the ball and rushed a lot of passes that could’ve gotten his team in real trouble. After a very bad first half performance, in which he looked extremely poor, the Real Madrid captain polished his defending boots and was a lot better in the second half. The former Sevilla man kept De Bruyne and Aguero in check and only earned himself one foul tonight. Offensively, he was a steady threat in the air for Real Madrid in set pieces including a heading effort from a corner which was directed straight at Hart’s gloves. Marcelo - 6.5 Mundane performance from the fullback tonight. Marcelo was very predictable offensively on that left wing. Constant drifting on to the left wing and crossing became very repetitive. Some unnecessary show-boating while having possession in his own half almost led to some City opportunities. Overall, not a highlightable performance from the Brazilian fullback. Casemiro - 7.5 Great physical presence from the Brazilian in midfield, drawing fouls by shielding the ball from players like Aguero and Kompany. Although, he’s physically strong enough to take pressure, he’s very witty to look for contact and earn his team a foul to slow down the tempo of the game. Casemiro is the hardworking chopper of that midfield and his efforts will keep him in this starting eleven until the end of the season. Toni Kroos - 7 Steady performance as always. The German played a couple of good passes but none of them were really too influential. He rushed a couple passes when trying to connect with the front three and wasn’t really a remarkable point in that midfield tonight. Although, his passing accuracy stayed at 96%, apart from a single shot the German had which drifted far to the right of Hart’s goal, nothing extraordinary from Kroos tonight but then again nothing extraordinary from the whole team. Luka Modric - 8 The best player for Real Madrid tonight. Modric was the only bright light for Madrid in a dull grey field. The Croatian midfielder was once again the most efficient player in midfield. Modric played very dangerous balls into his attackers and even had a shot on goal which reminded some of the last time Luka Modric visited Manchester and that night in Old Trafford where Modric scored a screamer for Madrid, unfortunately it wasn’t to be and his shot drifted wide of Hart’s goal. His play was also very heavily affected by City’s high pressing which left his attackers very blocked off. Gareth Bale - 8 The Welshman was impressive tonight. Bale was relying on his individual skill to put Madrid ahead on the scoreboard. The former Tottenham man was a down right nightmare for Kompany and Otamendi. Bale had 5 shots, created 1 chance and completed a staggering 9 take ons. Karim Benzema - 5 The player is clearly walking on eggshells and is in no way, shape, or form ready to start for Real Madrid at the moment. The Frenchman looked very dejected on the field. In min 41”, he had an opening to shoot the ball but decided to pass it to Bale in the box who was already being marked by 3 defenders. The only clear shot he had tonight came after a pass from Pepe in the box and Karim’s shot flew 20 feet over Hart’s goal. Looking at the player that came in for him in Jese, says a lot about Real’s squad depth and the need for them and look for another forward this summer Lucas Vasquez - 8 Dynamic and sacrificial. Lucas offered his heart and soul once again. He quickly realized he had to split his efforts equally both in defense and attack, which is reflected clearly with his 2 clearances, 3 blocks and 3 fouls. He constantly helped Marcelo on the left wing with his defensive duties and also offered help to both Kroos and Modric in midfield. Offensively he was also very influential completing 3 take ons and was quite a handful for Bacary Sagna. SUBSTITUTIONS: Jese for Benzema (Halftime), Isco for Kroos (Min. 90) Jese: 7.5 The Castilla product offered Madrid more speed and dynamic play on the wings. Jese completed 3 take ons and had a great chance on target tonight with a header that struck the post. Throughout the second half Jese was an open option for his midfielders at all times. Isco: N/A The former Malaga man was not on the field long enough to have any sort of impact. Final Thoughts: This was a very dull game in which neither team wanted to take too many risks. City are keeping their cards for a surprise with away goals at the Bernabeu and Real Madrid did not want too make the same mistakes they made in Wolfsburg where they went straight for the kill and got annihilated on the counter. This result leaves for a very exciting second game which we all hope will be a better showing, for the sake of football.


--- [Champions League Yellow and Red Cards - UCL Suspension List - MARCA] ---
Champions League Mourinho on Prestianni: "If he is effectively guilty, I will not look at him in the same way and with me it is over" Redacción: NUNO LUZ Redacción: RYAN MITCHELL Mourinho on Prestianni: "If he is effectively guilty, I will not look at him in the same way and with me it is over" Champions League UEFA Champions League Round of 16 Draw 25/26: Real Madrid to face Manchester City, PSG vs Chelsea Redacción: SAM UEFA Champions League Round of 16 Draw 25/26: Real Madrid to face Manchester City, PSG vs Chelsea Champions League What time is the 2026 Champions League last-16 draw: possible pairings and where to watch in the USA Redacción: RYAN MITCHELL What time is the 2026 Champions League last-16 draw: possible pairings and where to watch in the USA Champions League In Portugal they claim that Prestianni admitted to calling Vinicius a monkey; Benfica denies it Redacción: DANIEL GARCÍA V. Redacción: Ryan Mitchell In Portugal they claim that Prestianni admitted to calling Vinicius a monkey; Benfica denies it Champions League Thibaut Courtois fires warning to Manchester City and backs Vinicius Jr. without hesitation Redacción: Jose Rodriguez Thibaut Courtois fires warning to Manchester City and backs Vinicius Jr. without hesitation Champions League Vinicius Jr. dances to Mourinho again and Real Madrid gets its best version at the best moment Redacción: Jose Rodriguez Vinicius Jr. dances to Mourinho again and Real Madrid gets its best version at the best moment Champions League Benfica fans clash with riot police before Real Madrid showdown Redacción: RAÍZ Benfica fans clash with riot police before Real Madrid showdown Champions League Champions League Playoffs bracket and schedule 2025-26: Today's matches, results, and standings Redacción: CALIOPE SMITH Champions League Playoffs bracket and schedule 2025-26: Today's matches, results, and standings Real Madrid 2-1 Benfica: Goals and highlights - Champions League 25/26 Redacción: SAM Real Madrid 2-1 Benfica: Goals and highlights - Champions League 25/26 Champions League Is Bodo/Glimt the biggest miracle in Champions League history? Redacción: ALBERTO RUBIO Redacción: RYAN MITCHELL Is Bodo/Glimt the biggest miracle in Champions League history? Champions League Prestianni travels to Madrid Redacción: JAVIER MANCEBO Redacción: RYAN MITCHELL Prestianni travels to Madrid Champions League Jose Mourinho stays tight-lipped on Vinicius racism row ahead of Benfica vs Real Madrid Redacción: SAM Jose Mourinho stays tight-lipped on Vinicius racism row ahead of Benfica vs Real Madrid Champions League Prestianni's agent: "Everything published in UEFA's investigations is false" Redacción: RYAN MITCHELL Prestianni's agent: "Everything published in UEFA's investigations is false"
