=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Antigone - Athens Epidaurus Festival]
Translated by Yorgos Blanas Directed by Cezaris Graužinis Set and costume design Kenny McLellan Musical composition Dimitris Theocharis Choreography Edgen Lame Lighting design Alekos Yiannaros Cast Elli Tringou (Antigone), Vasilis Bisbikis (Creon), ...
URL: https://aefestival.gr/festival_events/antigoni/?lang=en

[PLAYED Definition & Meaning - Merriam-Webster]
: to engage in sport or recreation : frolic b (1) : to toy or fiddle around with something played with her food (2) : to deal or behave frivolously or mockingly : jest (3)
URL: https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/played

[PLAYED | English meaning - Cambridge Dictionary]
PLAYED definition: 1. past simple and past participle of play 2. When you play, especially as a child, you spend time…. Learn more.
URL: https://dictionary.cambridge.org/dictionary/english/played

[Played - definition of played by The Free Dictionary]
To use the resources or strategies at one's disposal: played her cards right and got promoted.
URL: https://www.thefreedictionary.com/played

[Antigone]
Jul 22, 2025 — This year, Ulrich Rasche—whom we first met in 2022 with his striking staging of Agamemnon by Aeschylus in a co-production with Munich's ...
URL: https://aefestival.gr/festival_events/antigone-3/?lang=en


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Antigone - Athens Epidaurus Festival] ---
No content


--- [PLAYED Definition & Meaning - Merriam-Webster] ---
played; playing; plays 1 a : to engage in sport or recreation : frolic b(1) : to toy or fiddle around with something played with her food (2) : to deal or behave frivolously or mockingly : jest (3) : to deal in a light, speculative, or sportive manner (4) : to make use of double meaning or of the similarity of sound of two words for stylistic or humorous effect (5) : to move aimlessly about : trifle c : to have sexual relations especially : to have promiscuous or illicit sexual relations —usually used in the phrase play around 2 a : to engage or take part in a game b : to perform in a position in a specified manner the outfielders were playing deep c : to perform an action during one's turn in a game d : gamble e(1) : to behave or conduct oneself in a specified way play safe (2) : to feign a specified state or quality play dead (3) : to take part in or assent to some activity : cooperate play along with his scheme (4) : to act so as to prove advantageous to another —usually used in the phrase play into the hands of 3 a(1) : to perform music play on a violin (2) : to sound in performance the organ is playing (3) : to emit sounds the radio is playing (4) : to reproduce recorded sounds a record is playing c : to be suitable for dramatic performance d : to act with special consideration so as to gain favor, approval, or sympathy might play to popular prejudices to serve his political ends—V. L. Parrington —often used in the phrase play up to e : to produce a specified impression in performance a movie that plays like a sitcom 4 5 : to gain approval : go over her idea did not play well 1 a(1) : to engage in or occupy oneself with play baseball (2) : to engage in (an activity) as a game (3) : to deal with, handle, or manage (4) b : to pretend to engage in the activities of play war children playing house c(1) : to amount to by one's efforts played an important role in their success (2) : to perform or execute for amusement or to deceive or mock play a trick (3) : wreak play havoc (4) : to use or introduce as a political or rhetorical strategy play the national security card 2 a(1) : to contend against in or as if in a game (2) : to use as a contestant in a game the coach did not play him (3) : to perform the duties associated with (a certain position) played quarterback (4) : to guard or move into position to defend against (an opponent) in a specified manner b(1) : to wager in a game : stake (2) : to make wagers on play the races (3) : to speculate on or in play the stock market (4) : to operate on the basis of play a hunch c : to put into action in a game especially : to remove (a playing card) from one's hand and place usually faceup on a table in one's turn either as part of a scoring combination or as one's contribution to a trick d : to catch or pick up (a batted ball) : field played the ball bare-handed e : to direct the course of (something, such as a ball) : hit played a wedge shot to the green also : to cause (a ball or puck) to rebound played the ball off the backboard 3 a(1) : to put on a performance of (a play) (2) : to act in the character or part of (3) : to act or perform in played leading theaters b : to perform or act the part of play the fool 4 a : to perform (music) on an instrument play a waltz b : to perform music on play the violin c : to perform music of (a certain composer) d(1) : to cause (a device, such as a radio) to emit sounds (2) : to cause the recorded sound or image of (something, such as a record, optical disk, or a digital file) to be reproduced 1 a : the stage representation of an action or story b : a dramatic composition : drama 2 3 a : the conduct, course, or action of a game b : one's turn in a game it's your play c : a particular act or maneuver in a game: such as (1) : the action during an attempt to advance the ball in football (2) : the action in which a player is put out in baseball d : the moving of a piece in a board game (such as chess) e : the action in which cards are played after bidding in a card game f 4 a(1) : the state of being active, operative, or relevant other motives surely come into play—M. R. Cohen several issues are at play (2) : a function of an electronic device that causes a recording to play (3) : scope or opportunity for action (4) : brisk, fitful, or light movement the gem presented a dazzling play of colors (5) : free or unimpeded motion (as of a part of a machine) also : the length or measure of such motion 5 : emphasis or publicity especially in the news media wished the country received a better play in the American press—Hugh MacLennan 6 : a move or series of moves calculated to arouse friendly feelings —usually used with make made a big play for the girl—Will Herman 7 a obsolete : sexual intercourse b : amorous flirtation : dalliance see also: Love words? Need even more definitions? Merriam-Webster unabridged


--- [PLAYED | English meaning - Cambridge Dictionary] ---
played In English, many past and present participles of verbs can be used as adjectives. Some of these examples may show the adjective use. Instead, important individuals played essential roles, and their talent and authority was reported to be crucial to the building's success. There was a stronger rationale for reform and both international and domestic factors played important roles. But the theatre can and has played many other, deeper, and more important roles in the quest for authentic democracy. It seems that these enzymes played integral roles in the protection of plants from oxidative stress. There may be whole groups of people who are not represented by the written sources but who played significant roles in the processes under consideration. Thus, both architecturally and socially, the aggrandizement played out in a way that recognized local needs alongside monarchical ones. Typically, the whole performance is evaluated: the presentation, as well as the music being played or sung. Residents also played practical jokes and teased one another. After all, what might be easily played on one instrument could be difficult on another. They have purchased shares of privatized state enterprises and played a role in corporate governance. The railways played a role in deciding which regions would specialize in woollen weaving. In both instances it was the humanists and orthographers who played the critical roles in debates that were to have major consequences for the reformers. Institutional evolution demonstrates how processes of change have played out differently in the three countries. Statutory regulation played a relatively minor role in the prudential control of banks. They had played together in the orchestra for 1.8 to three years and were in relatively close social contact with one another. These examples are from corpora and from sources on the web. Any opinions in the examples do not represent the opinion of the Cambridge Dictionary editors or of Cambridge University Press or its licensors.


--- [Played - definition of played by The Free Dictionary] ---
played Also found in: Thesaurus, Medical, Financial, Acronyms, Idioms, Encyclopedia, Wikipedia. Related to played: played out, plated play (plā)v. played, play·ing, plays v.intr. 1. To occupy oneself in an activity for amusement or recreation: children playing with toys. 2. a. To take part in a sport or game: He's just a beginner and doesn't play well. b. To participate in betting; gamble. 3. a. To behave in a teasing or joking manner; act in jest or sport: She's not angry with you; she's just playing. b. To deal or behave carelessly or indifferently, especially for one's own amusement; toy: She isn't interested in you; she's just playing with you. 4. To act or conduct oneself in a specified way: play fair; an investor who plays cautiously. 5. To act, especially in a dramatic production. 6. Music a. To perform on an instrument: play on an accordion. b. To emit sound or be sounded in performance: The band is playing. 7. To be performed, as in a theater or on television: A good movie is playing tonight. 8. To be received or accepted: a speech that played poorly with the voters. 9. To move or seem to move quickly, lightly, or irregularly: The breeze played on the water. 10. To function or discharge uninterruptedly: The fountains played in the courtyard. 11. To move or operate freely within a bounded space, as machine parts do. v.tr. 1. a. To engage in (a game or sport): play hockey; play chess. b. To compete against in a game or sport: We play the Tigers today. c. To compete in a game or sport at (a location): The New York Yankees played Fenway Park last night. d. To occupy or work at (a position) in a game: Lou Gehrig played first base. e. To put (a player) at a position in a sport or in a game: Let's play her at first base. f. To use or move (a card or piece) in a game: play the ace of clubs g. To hit (a ball, shot, or stroke), as in tennis: played a strong backhand. h. To attempt to keep or gain possession or control of: No foul was called because he was playing the ball. 2. a. To perform or act (a role or part) in a dramatic performance. b. To assume the role of; act as: played the peacemaker at the meeting. c. To pretend to be; mimic the activities of: played cowboy; played the star. 3. a. To perform (a theatrical work or part of a work): The actors played the scene with great skill. b. To present a theatrical performance or other entertainment in (a given place): The company played Boston last week. 4. a. To bet; wager: played ten dollars on the horse. b. To make bets on: play the races. 5. a. To perform or put into effect, especially as a jest or deception: play a joke on a friend. b. To handle; manage: played the matter quietly. c. To use or manipulate, especially for one's own interests: played his opponents against each other. 6. Music a. To perform on (an instrument): play the guitar. b. To perform (a piece) on instruments or an instrument. 7. To cause (a movie, audiotape, or other recording) to be presented in audible or visible form. 8. To discharge or direct in a certain direction: played the water on the burning roof. 9. To cause to move rapidly, lightly, or irregularly: play lights over the dance floor. 10. To exhaust (a hooked fish) by allowing it to pull on the line. n. Phrasal Verbs: 1. a. A literary work written for performance on the stage; a drama. b. The performance of such a work. 2. Activity engaged in for enjoyment or recreation. 3. Fun or jesting: It was all done in play. 4. a. The act or manner of engaging in a game or sport: After a time-out, play resumed. The golf tournament featured expert play. b. The act or manner of using a card, piece, or ball in a game or sport: my partner's play of the last trump; his clumsy play of the rebound. c. A move or an action in a game: It's your play. The runner was thrown out in a close play. 5. Participation in betting; gambling. 6. Manner of dealing with others; conduct: fair play. 7. An attempt to obtain something; a bid: a play for sympathy. 8. a. Action, motion, or use: the play of the imagination. b. Freedom or occasion for action; scope: give full play to an artist's talents. 9. Movement or space for movement, as of mechanical parts. 10. Quick, often irregular movement or action, especially of light or color: the play of color on iridescent feathers. 11. A control mechanism on an audio or video player that starts or resumes the audible or visual presentation of a recording. 12. A geological deposit, as of oil or natural gas, considered as a prospect for commercial extraction. play along Informal To cooperate or pretend to cooperate: decided to play along with the robbers for a while. play around To philander. play at 1. To participate in; engage in. 2. To do or take part in halfheartedly. play back To replay (a recently recorded tape, for example). play down To minimize the importance of; make little of: played down the defect to protect the troops' morale. play off 1. Sports a. To establish the winner of (a tie) by playing in an additional game or series of games. b. To participate in a playoff. 2. To set (one individual or party) in opposition to another so as to advance one's own interests: a parent who played off one child against another. play on (or upon) To take advantage of (another's attitudes or feelings) for one's own interests: demagogues who play on popular fears. play out To use up; exhaust: Our strength was played out early in the contest. play up Idioms: To emphasize or publicize: She played up her experience during the job interview. in play 1. Sports In a position to be legally or feasibly played: The ball is now in play. 2. In a position, or rumored to be in a position of possible corporate takeover: The company's stock rose in price when it was said to be in play. out of play Sports Not in a position to be legally or feasibly played. play ball Slang To cooperate: The opposing attorneys refused to play ball with us. play both ends against the middle To set opposing parties or interests against one another so as to advance one's own goals. play fast and loose To behave in a recklessly irresponsible or deceitful manner: played fast and loose with the facts. play for time To use delaying tactics; temporize. play games Slang To be evasive or deceptive: Quit playing games and tell me what you want. play hard to get To pretend to be uninterested in a romantic relationship. play in Peoria Slang To be acceptable to average constituents or consumers. play into (someone's) hands To act or behave so as to give an advantage to an opponent. play it by ear To act according to the circumstances; improvise: I don't have a set schedule, so we'll have to play it by ear. play (one's) cards Informal To use the resources or strategies at one's disposal: played her cards right and got promoted. play possum To pretend to be sleeping or dead. play the field To date more than one person at the same time. play the game Informal To behave according to the accepted customs or standards. play up to To curry favor with. play with a full deck Slang To be of sound mind: didn't seem to be playing with a full deck. play with fire To take part in a dangerous or risky undertaking. play with (oneself) Vulgar Slang To masturbate. play′a·bil′i·ty n. play′a·ble adj. American Heritage® Dictionary of the English Language, Fifth Edition. Copyright © 2016 by Houghton Mifflin Harcourt Publishing Company. Published by Houghton Mifflin Harcourt Publishing Company. All rights reserved. ThesaurusAntonymsRelated WordsSynonymsLegend: Switch to new thesaurus | Adj. | 1. | played - (of games) engaged in; "the loosely played game" game - a contest with rules to determine a winner; "you need four people to play this game" | Based on WordNet 3.0, Farlex clipart collection. © 2003-2012 Princeton University, Farlex Inc.


--- [Antigone] ---
No content
