=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[TITLE Definition & Meaning - Merriam-Webster]
The meaning of TITLE is the distinguishing name of a written, printed, or filmed production. How to use title in a sentence.
URL: https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/title

[Home - Desert Title Motor Vehicle Services]
Desert Title is experienced and ready to help you keep your vehicles organized and up-to-date. From small company or personal fleets to large vehicle dealerships, let us handle your title work so you can focus on your business.
URL: https://deserttitle.com/

[Titles | NY DMV]
Titles and Vehicle Ownership A certificate of title for a vehicle (MV-999) (also known as 'title' or 'pink slip') is a legal document that establishes a person or business as the legal owner of a vehicle. The title certificate is used to transfer ownership from one person to another.
URL: https://dmv.ny.gov/titles

[Replace a lost title or registration - WA State Licensing (DOL)]
Vehicles with "WA rebuilt" on the title Replace a lost or damaged vehicle registration To replace a lost or damaged vehicle registration, you must complete and submit the Affidavit of Loss section of the Affidavit of Loss/Release of Interest form. If replacing a lost title, all registered owners must sign this form in the presence of a notary ...
URL: https://dol.wa.gov/vehicles-and-boats/vehicles/vehicle-registration/vehicle-title/replace-lost-title-or-registration

[Vehicle Certificate of Title - Mass.gov]
Feb 16, 2026 · Find out what you need to obtain a duplicate, change information, or check the status of a vehicle's Certificate of Title.
URL: https://www.mass.gov/vehicle-certificate-of-title


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [TITLE Definition & Meaning - Merriam-Webster] ---
1 a : the distinguishing name of a written, printed, or filmed production b : a similar distinguishing name of a musical composition or a work of art 2 : a usually published work as distinguished from a particular copy published 25 new titles 3 : a descriptive name : appellation 4 a : an appellation of dignity, honor, distinction, or preeminence attached to a person or family by virtue of rank, office, precedent, privilege, attainment, or lands b : a person holding a title especially of nobility 6 a : a legally just cause of exclusive possession b : the instrument (such as a deed) that is evidence of a right c : all the elements constituting legal ownership 7 a : a descriptive or general heading (as of a chapter in a book) b : the heading which names an act or statute c : the heading of a legal action or proceeding 8 : a division of an instrument, book, or bill especially : one larger than a section or article 9 a : something that justifies or substantiates a claim b : an alleged or recognized right 10 a : written material introduced into a movie or television program to give credits, explain an action, or represent dialogue —usually used in plural b obsolete : inscription titled; titling ˈtīt-liŋ, ˈtī-tᵊl-iŋ : of or relating to a title: such as a : having the same name as the title of a production did the title role in Hamlet b : having the same title as or providing the title for the collection or production of which it forms a part the title song c : of, relating to, or involving a championship a title match d : of, relating to, or used with the titles that introduce a movie or television program title music Love words? Need even more definitions? Merriam-Webster unabridged


--- [Home - Desert Title Motor Vehicle Services] ---
Your fast, friendly choice for all Arizona Motor Vehicle Services Visit one of our convenient locations for all your Motor Vehicle Registration needs. Stop in to update or get a new Driver’s License or ID as well as renew or title all your vehicles. Driver's License and IDs May 7, 2025 is the deadline to update your to the Travel or Real ID. Stop in today to update yours. Title and Registration Getting your vehicle registered and titled, or even renewing your registration can be a hassle. Let one of our fast friendly team members help make it a breeze. Dealer and Commercial Services Desert Title is experienced and ready to help you keep your vehicles organized and up-to-date. From small company or personal fleets to large vehicle dealerships, let us handle your title work so you can focus on your business. Walk in for all your motor vehicle registration and drivers license needs. If you would like an appointment for a speedy experience, please give us a call! Mesa 2815 S Alma School Rd, #107 Mesa, AZ 85210 M-F 8A-4P 480-777-9820 Gilbert Fountain Hills 17124 E Shea Blvd Fountain Hills, AZ 85268 Tues and Thur 8A-4P 480-619-4228 Tucson 2195 W Magee Rd #128 Tucson, AZ 85742 MWF 9A-5P, TT 8A-4P 520-293-2933 Show Low 1170 E Deuce of Clubs Show Low, AZ 85901 M-F 8A-5P, Sat 8A-3P 928-532-4411 East Mesa 2831 S Ellsworth Rd Mesa, AZ 85212 M-F 8A-5P, Sat 8A-4P 480-619-4230 Blog The Travel ID is a federally compliant identification required for domestic air travel and access to certain federal facilities. It is part of the Real ID Act, enacted in response to the 9/11 attacks to improve security measures in the U.S. The Travel ID is marked... What to Know About Off Road Registration Confused about how to register your off road vehicle? Let’s break down the pros and cons of your registraiton choices in Arizona. Coming Soon We will soon be moving our Fountain Hills location and adding new services to assist the community of Fountain Hills and the surrounding areas.New larger locationDesert Title is moving to a new larger location right on Shea. Located just off the...


--- [Titles | NY DMV] ---
Titles and Vehicle Ownership Top Title Transaction Vehicle Ownership Buying, Selling, and Registering Changes to a Title Adding, Removing, and Changing Information on a Title If you have recently bought out the lease on your vehicle, you need to submit proof of your ownership and get a copy of the title that lists you as the owner. A "lien" means that someone other than you has a security interest in your vehicle. Find out the steps to take to have someone added or removed as a lienholder on your title. Salvage Vehicles Damaged and Rebuilt DMV regulations require the DMV to mark or 'brand' a title certificate if a vehicle is 8 model years old or newer and the owner indicated that the vehicle was destroyed or received damage of 75% or more of the retail value of the vehicle at the time the damage occurred. If a salvage vehicle is rebuilt for use on roadways, the DMV must examine it before issuing a new title certificate or registration. Special Situations Vehicles Without Titles Rarely, vehicles may be purchased or obtained without a title. Find out how to get a title or how to establish proof of ownership.


--- [Replace a lost title or registration - WA State Licensing (DOL)] ---
Learn how to replace a vehicle title or registration if you lose it or it is damaged. Before you get started You can replace your vehicle title or registration if you lose it or it gets damaged. Replacement fees vary. Replace a lost or damaged vehicle title If you're still making payments on your vehicle, the lienholder must apply for the title. We mail titles within 6-8 weeks. If you need it sooner, apply for a Quick Title (see below for details). 1. Complete an Affidavit of Loss/Release of Interest form - Print the Affidavit of Loss/Release of Interest form on white paper. - Have all the registered owners sign the form in the presence of a notary public. - If you cannot update your address online, provide a notarized Vehicle Title Application with the address listed as the mailing address. 2. Mail or bring the completed form and fee to an office Choose the option that meets your needs. Get your title in 4-6 weeks Visit a vehicle licensing office to have your title mailed to you within 4-6 weeks. - Replacement titles for vehicles cost $39.50 - Replacement titles for trailers cost $39.50 - Replacement titles for boats cost $30.75 Get your title right away Visit a Quick Title office get your title before you leave, or have it mailed immediately. - Replacement titles for vehicles cost $89.50 - Replacement titles for trailers cost $89.50 - Replacement titles for boats cost $80.75 Please note, Quick Titles are not available for: - Vehicles or boats that have been reported stolen - Vehicles or boats that have been destroyed by insurance or by wreckers - Vehicles with "WA rebuilt" on the title Replace a lost or damaged vehicle registration To replace a lost or damaged vehicle registration, you must complete and submit the Affidavit of Loss section of the Affidavit of Loss/Release of Interest form. - If replacing a lost title, all registered owners must sign this form in the presence of a notary public. - If replacing a lost registration, one registered owner must sign this form in the presence of a notary public. - If signing at a vehicle licensing office, a vehicle licensing agent can take the place of a notary. - Fees vary; contact a vehicle licensing office to get the correct amount for your situation. - Include check/money order for the correct fee payable to: Department of Licensing. - Mail or bring the form to any vehicle licensing office.


--- [Vehicle Certificate of Title - Mass.gov] ---
A Certificate of Title for a motor vehicle is a legal document issued by a state to certify the vehicle's ownership. The Massachusetts title law requires that all motor vehicles and trailers be titled within 10 days of purchase. Passenger vehicles with a model year of 1980 and older, purchased before November 26, 1990 are exempt from titling. Trailers with a gross vehicle weight rating (GVWR) of 3,000 pounds or less are also exempt and will not be issued a title.
