=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Facts & Figures | Information Hub - University of Cambridge]
Facts & Figures dashboard Facts and Figures presents an overview of operations of the University of Cambridge (Little U*) *excluding Cambridge University Press, Cambridge Assessment, and the Trusts with the exception of Group Income dashboard. Our Facts & Figures publications include Student numbers (The numbers included full-time students only), Graduate Outcome, Staff numbers, Financial ...
URL: https://www.information-hub.admin.cam.ac.uk/university-profile/facts-figures

[University of Cambridge - Wikipedia]
The university operates eight cultural and scientific museums, including the Fitzwilliam Museum and Cambridge University Botanic Garden. Cambridge's 116 libraries hold a total of approximately 16 million books, around 9 million of which are in Cambridge University Library, a legal deposit library and one of the world's largest academic libraries.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/University_of_Cambridge

[Cambridge at a glance | University of Cambridge]
Established The University of Cambridge was founded in 1209. Cambridge is the fourth-oldest university in the world. Motto Hinc lucem et pocula sacra (From this place, we gain enlightenment and precious knowledge). Students Undergraduates: 12,910 Postgraduates: 12,010 Total students: 24,912 (2024-2025 figures) Staff 13,113 members of staff employed in academic, academic-related, contract ...
URL: https://www.cam.ac.uk/about-the-university/cambridge-at-a-glance

[Who's working in HE? | HESA]
Non-academic staff contracts include managers, professionals in non-academic jobs, student welfare workers, secretaries, caretakers and cleaners. From 2019/20, it became optional for providers in England and Northern Ireland to return non-academic staff data (with the exception of any non-academic contracts held by vice-chancellors/heads of ...
URL: https://www.hesa.ac.uk/data-and-analysis/staff/working-in-he

[Google Translate]
Google's service, offered free of charge, instantly translates words, phrases, and web pages between English and over 100 other languages.
URL: https://translate.google.com/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Facts & Figures | Information Hub - University of Cambridge] ---
| Facts and Figures presents an overview of operations of the University of Cambridge (Little U*) *excluding Cambridge University Press, Cambridge Assessment, and the Trusts with the exception of Group Income dashboard. Our Facts & Figures publications include Student numbers (The numbers included full-time students only), Graduate Outcome, Staff numbers, Financial information, Space data, REF results, TRAC expenditure, and Group Income* (*Includes elimination on consolidation of CUP&A transfers, CUEF distribution from capital growth and other consolidation adjustments) Explore the data using the interactive Tableau dashboard by clicking on this image. If you would like a printable version of our Facts & Figures, please find pdf versions below. |


--- [University of Cambridge - Wikipedia] ---
The University of Cambridge is a public collegiate research university in Cambridge, England. Founded in 1209, the University of Cambridge is the world's third-oldest university in continuous operation. The university's founding followed the arrival of scholars who left the University of Oxford for Cambridge after a dispute with local townspeople. The two ancient English universities, although sometimes described as rivals, share many common features and are often jointly referred to as Oxbridge.
In 1231, 22 years after its founding, the university was recognised with a royal charter, granted by King Henry III. The University of Cambridge includes 31 semi-autonomous constituent colleges and more than 150 academic departments, faculties, and other institutions organised into six schools. The largest department is Cambridge University Press and Assessment, which contains the oldest university press in the world, with £1 billion of annual revenue and with 100 million learners. All of the colleges are self-governing institutions within the university, managing their own personnel and policies, and all students are required to have a college affiliation within the university. Undergraduate teaching at Cambridge is centred on weekly small-group supervisions in the colleges with lectures, seminars, laboratory work, and occasionally further supervision provided by the central university faculties and departments.
The university operates eight cultural and scientific museums, including the Fitzwilliam Museum and Cambridge University Botanic Garden. Cambridge's 116 libraries hold a total of approximately 16 million books, around 9 million of which are in Cambridge University Library, a legal deposit library and one of the world's largest academic libraries.
Among the university's notable alumni are Francis Bacon, Lord Byron, Oliver Cromwell, Charles Darwin, Rajiv Gandhi, John Harvard, Stephen Hawking, John Maynard Keynes, John Milton, Vladimir Nabokov, Jawaharlal Nehru, Isaac Newton, Salman Rushdie, Bertrand Russell, Alan Turing, Ludwig Wittgenstein, William Wordsworth, and 194 Olympic medal-winning athletes. Its alumni, academics, and affiliates have won 126 Nobel Prizes.


--- [Cambridge at a glance | University of Cambridge] ---
Established The University of Cambridge was founded in 1209. Cambridge is the fourth-oldest university in the world. Motto Hinc lucem et pocula sacra (From this place, we gain enlightenment and precious knowledge). Students Undergraduates: 12,910 Postgraduates: 12,010 Total students: 24,912 (2024-2025 figures) Staff 13,113 members of staff employed in academic, academic-related, contract research, technical and administrative roles. Alumni As of December 2024, Cambridge had more than 333,629 living alumni, with significant numbers in the UK, the USA, Germany, Canada, Australia, the People's Republic of China, France, Hong Kong SAR, Singapore, India, Switzerland and Italy. Colleges The University is made up of 31 constituent Colleges. Admissions 21,445 people applied for around 4,550 undergraduate places in 2023. Over 70% of our UK applicants came from state schools. Leadership Chancellor: The Rt Hon Lord Smith of Finsbury Vice-Chancellor: Professor Deborah Prentice Honours Among our alumni and affiliates we have 126 Nobel Prize Laureates, 47 Heads of State, 217 Olympic medallists. Graduate employment 91% of working graduates from Cambridge are in high-skilled employment (Graduate Outcomes Survey 2021/22). A global University Cambridge is a globally diverse institution. Our students come from 142 different countries. Our researchers collaborate with colleagues worldwide. The University has established partnerships in Asia, Africa, the Americas and Europe. Find out more about our global partnerships Innovation The University of Cambridge sits at the heart of one of the world’s largest technology clusters. The Cambridge cluster is home to over 5,000 knowledge-intensive companies. It is the birthplace of 24 businesses valued at more than $1 billion (£800 million). Cambridge promotes the interface between academia and business, and has a global reputation for innovation. More facts and figures Explore our overview of operations of the University of Cambridge


--- [Who's working in HE? | HESA] ---
No content


--- [Google Translate] ---
- EnglishUnited States - Deutsch - English - Español - Français - Italiano - All languages - Afrikaans - azərbaycan - bosanski - català - Čeština - Cymraeg - Dansk - Deutsch - eesti - EnglishUnited Kingdom - EspañolEspaña - EspañolLatinoamérica - euskara - Filipino - FrançaisCanada - FrançaisFrance - Gaeilge - galego - Hrvatski - Indonesia - isiZulu - íslenska - Italiano - Kiswahili - latviešu - lietuvių - magyar - Melayu - Nederlands - norsk - o‘zbek - polski - PortuguêsBrasil - PortuguêsPortugal - română - shqip - Slovenčina - slovenščina - srpski (latinica) - Suomi - Svenska - Tiếng Việt - Türkçe - Ελληνικά - беларуская - български - кыргызча - қазақ тілі - македонски - монгол - Русский - српски - Українська - ქართული - հայերեն - עברית - اردو - العربية - فارسی - አማርኛ - नेपाली - मराठी - हिन्दी - অসমীয়া - বাংলা - ਪੰਜਾਬੀ - ગુજરાતી - ଓଡ଼ିଆ - தமிழ் - తెలుగు - ಕನ್ನಡ - മലയാളം - සිංහල - ไทย - ລາວ - မြန်မာ - ខ្មែរ - 한국어 - 日本語 - 简体中文 - 繁體中文 - 繁體中文香港 - EnglishUnited States - Deutsch - English - Español - Français - Italiano - All languages - Afrikaans - azərbaycan - bosanski - català - Čeština - Cymraeg - Dansk - Deutsch - eesti - EnglishUnited Kingdom - EspañolEspaña - EspañolLatinoamérica - euskara - Filipino - FrançaisCanada - FrançaisFrance - Gaeilge - galego - Hrvatski - Indonesia - isiZulu - íslenska - Italiano - Kiswahili - latviešu - lietuvių - magyar - Melayu - Nederlands - norsk - o‘zbek - polski - PortuguêsBrasil - PortuguêsPortugal - română - shqip - Slovenčina - slovenščina - srpski (latinica) - Suomi - Svenska - Tiếng Việt - Türkçe - Ελληνικά - беларуская - български - кыргызча - қазақ тілі - македонски - монгол - Русский - српски - Українська - ქართული - հայերեն - עברית - اردو - العربية - فارسی - አማርኛ - नेपाली - मराठी - हिन्दी - অসমীয়া - বাংলা - ਪੰਜਾਬੀ - ગુજરાતી - ଓଡ଼ିଆ - தமிழ் - తెలుగు - ಕನ್ನಡ - മലയാളം - සිංහල - ไทย - ລາວ - မြန်မာ - ខ្មែរ - 한국어 - 日本語 - 简体中文 - 繁體中文 - 繁體中文香港 Before you continue to Google We use cookies and data to - Deliver and maintain Google services - Track outages and protect against spam, fraud, and abuse - Measure audience engagement and site statistics to understand how our services are used and enhance the quality of those services If you choose to “Accept all,” we will also use cookies and data to - Develop and improve new services - Deliver and measure the effectiveness of ads - Show personalized content, depending on your settings - Show personalized ads, depending on your settings If you choose to “Reject all,” we will not use cookies for these additional purposes. Non-personalized content is influenced by things like the content you’re currently viewing, activity in your active Search session, and your location. Non-personalized ads are influenced by the content you’re currently viewing and your general location. Personalized content and ads can also include more relevant results, recommendations, and tailored ads based on past activity from this browser, like previous Google searches. We also use cookies and data to tailor the experience to be age-appropriate, if relevant. Select “More options” to see additional information, including details about managing your privacy settings. You can also visit g.co/privacytools at any time.
