=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Abu Baker Asvat - Wikipedia]
Abu Baker Asvat (/ɑsfat/) (23 February 1943 - 27 January 1989), also known as Abu Asvat [1] or Abu[2] nicknamed Hurley was a South African medical doctor who practised in Soweto in the 1970s and 1980s.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Abu_Baker_Asvat

[Dr. Abu Baker Asvat - South African History Online]
May 25, 2012 · Together they created the Transvaal Cricket Board (TCB) in 1977, a Sacos-associated rebel cricket league. The TCB claimed that normal cricket was multi-racial, rather than non-racial, as it still embodied apartheid race divisions.
URL: https://www.sahistory.org.za/people/dr-abu-baker-asvat

[Abu Baker Asvat - Wikiwand]
Abu Baker Asvat (/ɑsfat/) (23 February 1943 - 27 January 1989), also known as Abu Asvat [1] or Abu[2] nicknamed Hurley was a South African medical doctor who practised in Soweto in the 1970s and 1980s.
URL: https://www.wikiwand.com/en/articles/Abu_Baker_Asvat

[Dr. Abu Baker Asvat timeline 1943 - 2012 - South African History Online]
1943 23 February, Abu Baker Asvat is born in Vrededorp, Gauteng. 1961 Asvat graduates from Johannesburg Indian High School and moves to Pakistan to continue his education. 1963 After completing a two year science course in Lahore, Asvat begins his medical training in East Pakistan (Bangladesh). He and his brother Ebrahim eventually move to Karachi to continue their medical studies. 1964 1943 ...
URL: https://www.sahistory.org.za/article/dr-abu-baker-asvat-timeline-1943-2012

[Dr Abu Baker 'Hurley' Asvat - DocsLib]
A year after his death, the first Dr. Abu-Baker Asvat Memorial Cricket tournament was held in his memory in Lenasia. The tournament continues to run as an annual event to this day, organized by the Abu Asvat Institute for Nation Building.
URL: https://docslib.org/doc/639769/dr-abu-baker-hurley-asvat


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Abu Baker Asvat - Wikipedia] ---
Abu Baker Asvat (/ɑsfat/) (23 February 1943 – 27 January 1989), also known as Abu Asvat 
 or Abu nicknamed Hurley was a South African medical doctor who practised in Soweto in the 1970s and 1980s. A founding member of Azapo, Asvat was the head of its health secretariat, and involved in initiatives aimed at improving the health of rural black South Africans during Apartheid.
In 1989, Asvat was shot dead in his clinic, and he died in the arms of his nurse, Albertina Sisulu. His death has been linked to that of Stompie Seipei four weeks earlier, with allegations that Winnie Mandela (whose personal physician Asvat was) paid for his murder as part of a cover-up of Seipei's killing, being presented to South Africa's Truth and Reconciliation Commission.


--- [Dr. Abu Baker Asvat - South African History Online] ---
No content


--- [Abu Baker Asvat - Wikiwand] ---
No content


--- [Dr. Abu Baker Asvat timeline 1943 - 2012 - South African History Online] ---
No content


--- [Dr Abu Baker 'Hurley' Asvat - DocsLib] ---
Dr Abu Baker ‘Hurley’ Asvat Total Page：16 File Type：pdf, Size：1020Kb Load more Recommended publications - Zapiro : Tooning the Odds 12 Zapiro : Tooning The Odds Jonathan Shapiro, or Zapiro, is the editorial cartoonist for The Sowetan, the Mail & Guardian and the Sunday Times, and his work is a richly inventive daily commentary on the rocky evolution of South African democracy. Zapiro’s platforms in the the country’s two largest mass-market English-language newspapers, along with one of the most influential weeklies, give him influential access to a large share of the national reading public. He occupies this potent cultural stage with a dual voice: one that combines a persistent satirical assault on the seats of national and global power with an unambiguous commitment to the fundamentally optimistic “nation-building” narrative within South African political culture. Jeremy Cronin asserts that Zapiro "is developing a national lexicon, a visual, verbal and moral vocabulary that enables us to talk to each other, about each other."2 It might also be said that the lexicon he develops allows him to write a persistent dialogue between two intersecting tones within his own journalistic voice; that his cartoons collectively dramatise the tension between national cohesion and tangible progress on the one hand, and on the other hand the recurring danger of damage to the mutable and vulnerable social contract that underpins South African democracy. This chapter will outline Zapiro’s political and creative development, before identifying his major formal devices and discussing his treatment of some persistent themes in cartoons produced over the last two years. Lines of attack: Zapiro’s early work Zapiro’s current political outlook germinated during the State of Emergency years in the mid- eighties: he returned from military service with a fervent opposition to the apartheid state, became an organiser for the End Conscription Campaign, and turned his pen to struggle pamphlets. - Blurred Lines BLURRED LINES: HOW SOUTH AFRICA’S INVESTIGATIVE JOURNALISM HAS CHANGED WITH A NEW DEMOCRACY AND EVOLVING COMMUNICATION TOOLS Zoe Schaver The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill School of Media and Journalism Advised by: __________________________ Chris Roush __________________________ Paul O’Connor __________________________ Jock Lauterer BLURRED LINES 1 ABSTRACT South Africa’s developing democracy, along with globalization and advances in technology, have created a confusing and chaotic environment for the country’s journalists. This research paper provides an overview of the history of the South African press, particularly the “alternative” press, since the early 1900s until 1994, when democracy came to South Africa. Through an in-depth analysis of the African National Congress’s relationship with the press, the commercialization of the press and new developments in technology and news accessibility over the past two decades, the paper goes on to argue that while journalists have been distracted by heated debates within the media and the government about press freedom, and while South African media companies have aggressively cut costs and focused on urban areas, the South African press has lost touch with ordinary South Africans — especially historically disadvantaged South Africans, who are still struggling and who most need representation in news coverage. BLURRED LINES 2 TABLE OF CONTENTS Chapter I: Introduction A. Background and Purpose B. Research Questions and Methodology C. Definitions Chapter II: Review of Literature A. History of the Alternative Press in South Africa B. Censorship of the Alternative Press under Apartheid Chapter III: Media-State Relations Post-1994 Chapter IV: Profits, the Press, and the Public Chapter V: Discussion and Conclusion BLURRED LINES 3 CHAPTER I: Introduction A. - Searchlight South Africa: a Marxist Journal of Southern African Studies Vol Searchlight South Africa: a marxist journal of Southern African studies Vol. 2, No. 7 http://www.aluka.org/action/showMetadata?doi=10.5555/AL.SFF.DOCUMENT.PSAPRCA0009 Use of the Aluka digital library is subject to Aluka’s Terms and Conditions, available at http://www.aluka.org/page/about/termsConditions.jsp. By using Aluka, you agree that you have read and will abide by the Terms and Conditions. Among other things, the Terms and Conditions provide that the content in the Aluka digital library is only for personal, non-commercial use by authorized users of Aluka in connection with research, scholarship, and education. The content in the Aluka digital library is subject to copyright, with the exception of certain governmental works and very old materials that may be in the public domain under applicable law. Permission must be sought from Aluka and/or the applicable copyright holder in connection with any duplication or distribution of these materials where required by applicable law. Aluka is a not-for-profit initiative dedicated to creating and preserving a digital archive of materials about and from the developing world. For more information about Aluka, please see http://www.aluka.org Searchlight South Africa: a marxist journal of Southern African studies Vol. 2, No. 7 Alternative title Searchlight South Africa Author/Creator Hirson, Baruch; Trewhela, Paul; Ticktin, Hillel; MacLellan, Brian Date 1991-07 Resource type Journals (Periodicals) Language English Subject Coverage (spatial) Ethiopia, Iraq, Namibia, South Africa Coverage (temporal) - The Daily PRINCETONIAN 8 Editorials/Opinions Shapiro's statement Reporting in South Africa: Writing A new openness with a sense desperation and hope President Shapiro's detailed response to the nine demands of a By KANTHAN PILLAY '91 presented at Wednesday's sit-in is move in the right direc- in a often been unre- When South African Consul John Davies told a thetized stupor, I heard myself responding tion for a president who has perceived as university audience recently that his government voice that sounded much too normal to be my own. sponsive and abrasive. allowed a free press, citing the fact that nearly all "Hi Abu. I told you we'd be meeting sometime Shapiro's three-page statement which appears today in The newspapers are critical of the Botha regime, it was soon. You guys have to getme out ofhere. I'm sup- Daily Princetonian seems to represent an attempt to connect difficultfor me to restrain myself. Many people posed to be swimming this weekend..." and communicate with a larger sector of the community associate freedom of the press with the ability to It was six weeks later that I saw him again. As I before his meeting with protest leaders tomorrow. express an opinion, and Consul Davies like his lay propped up in bed with traction pins and pul- But it is imperative that Shapiro's statement in no way government is quick to take advantage—ofthis. leys, he wandered over to my bedside, dressed in usurp the function of tomorrow's meeting or substitute for Journalists—have a different picture. - The Association for Diplomatic Studies and Training Foreign Affairs Oral History Project The Association for Diplomatic Studies and Training Foreign Affairs Oral History Project STEVE McDONALD Interviewed by: Dan Whitman Initial Interview Date: August 17, 2011 Copyright 2018 ADST TABLE OF CONTENTS Education MA, South African Policy Studies, University of London 1975 Joined Foreign Service 1975 Washington, DC 1975 Desk Officer for Portuguese African Colonies Pretoria, South Africa 1976-1979 Political Officer -- Black Affairs Retired from the Foreign Service 1980 Professor at Drury College in Missouri 1980-1982 Consultant, Ford Foundation’s Study 1980-1982 “South Africa: Time Running Out” Head of U.S. South Africa Leadership Exchange Program 1982-1987 Managed South Africa Policy Forum at the Aspen Institute 1987-1992 Worked for African American Institute 1992-2002 Consultant for the Wilson Center 2002-2008 Consulting Director at Wilson Center 2009-2013 INTERVIEW Q: Here we go. This is Dan Whitman interviewing Steve McDonald at the Wilson Center in downtown Washington. It is August 17. Steve McDonald, you are about to correct me the head of the Africa section… McDONALD: Well the head of the Africa program and the project on leadership and building state capacity at the Woodrow Wilson international center for scholars. 1 Q: That is easy for you to say. Thank you for getting that on the record, and it will be in the transcript. In the Wilson Center many would say the prime research center on the East Coast. McDONALD: I think it is true. It is a think tank a research and academic body that has approximately 150 fellows annually from all over the world looking at policy issues. - MOTHER of the NATION: Saint and Sinner MOTHER OF THE NATION: Saint and Sinner By Isaac Otidi Amuke ‘‘They set up my father as the saint and set up my mother as the sinner,’’ Zindzi Mandela is quoted saying about her famous parents in Pascale Lamche’s film Winnie. Of all front-row ANC freedom fighters – men and women – Winnie Madikizela-Mandela was singled out as the only leader to appear before South Africa’s Truth and Reconciliation Commission (TRC) in her personal capacity, where she was implored by Desmond Tutu o apologise to the country for whatever might have gone wrong under her watch. Tutu had argued then that her confession would be good for the country. The ANC employed the use of violence during the anti-apartheid struggle, including deploying bombs in strategic government installations, some of which exploded and killed the wrong targets. It was widely held – and as stated by ANC stalwart Ahmed Kathrada during a BBC HardTalk interview – that some bombings were carried out by unruly ANC cadres. These crimes were pegged not on individuals but on the ANC, which sent senior representatives to the TRC to either explain and defend its position or to apologise. The same collective leniency of being represented by the ANC was not extended to Madikizela-Mandela. The liberation sins attributed to her and those around her were placed squarely at her feet, prominent among them being the 1989 killing of 14-year-old Moeketsi “Stompie” Seipei, who was suspected of being a police informer. ‘‘The one person who kept the fire burning when everyone was petrified,’’ Madikizela-Mandela said of her essential if lonely and thankless role in the anti-apartheid struggle in Lamche’s film, a moment in which moment her eyes got watery. - Patricia Van Der Spuy on Winnie Mandela: a Life Anne Marie du Preez Bezdrob. Winnie Mandela: A Life. Cape Town: Zebra Press, 2003. xv + 287 pp. No price listed, cloth, ISBN 978-1-86872-662-2. Reviewed by Patricia Van Der Spuy Published on H-SAfrica (July, 2004) "Whenever her name was mentioned in secu‐ of Winnie Mandela. The cover portrait captures rity circles, a shudder went through the ranks," the tone of the book: a tribute to a tragic heroine. Eugene de Kock, security policeman. "No one who Her fatal faw in the Shakespearean tradition is has ever lived in this country can gainsay that perhaps her trusting nature; her fall, however, is Winnie was tremendous in her struggle role," attributed to a particular form of post-traumatic Archbishop Desmond Tutu. "Winnie Mandela's stress disorder, brought on by the unrelenting, hands are dripping with the blood of the people of torturous pressures of the apartheid regime. The South Africa," Xoliswa Falati, former friend. tragedy is well captured, although the premise is "[Winnie Mandela] is a political fgure of almost debatable. (Madikizela-Mandela is not, after all, a Shakespearean tragic proportions," Judge Dennis Shakespearean creation.) However, one is left un‐ Davis. certain of the precise nature of Winnie Mandela's These quotations from The Penguin Dictio‐ politics. None of those quoted on the book cover nary of South African Quotations (1999) appear seem to have been interviewed for this book, and on the back cover of Anne Marie du Preez Bez‐ nowhere are their statements analyzed. This book drob's Winnie Mandela: A Life, the frst book- could be critiqued from many diﬀerent angles. - Soweto, the S“ Torybook Place”: Tourism and Feeling in a South African Township Sarah Marie Kgagudi University of Pennsylvania, [email protected] University of Pennsylvania ScholarlyCommons Publicly Accessible Penn Dissertations 2019 Soweto, The s“ torybook Place”: Tourism And Feeling In A South African Township Sarah Marie Kgagudi University of Pennsylvania, [email protected] Follow this and additional works at: https://repository.upenn.edu/edissertations Part of the Linguistics Commons, Music Commons, and the Social and Cultural Anthropology Commons Recommended Citation Kgagudi, Sarah Marie, "Soweto, The s“ torybook Place”: Tourism And Feeling In A South African Township" (2019). Publicly Accessible Penn Dissertations. 3320. https://repository.upenn.edu/edissertations/3320 This paper is posted at ScholarlyCommons. https://repository.upenn.edu/edissertations/3320 For more information, please contact [email protected]. Soweto, The s“ torybook Place”: Tourism And Feeling In A South African Township Abstract This dissertation deals with the role of tour guides in creating and telling the story of Soweto – a township southwest of Johannesburg, South Africa. The ts ory speaks of a place afflicted by poverty because of its history of segregation during apartheid but emerging out of these struggles to lead its nation in a post-apartheid culture. I argue that Soweto’s story was created out of a governmental mandate for the township to become one of Gauteng’s tourism locations, and out of a knowledge that the transformation story from apartheid to a ‘rainbow nation’ would not sell in this context. After being created, Soweto’s story was affirmed through urban branding strategies and distributed to tourism markets across the world. It is a storybook – a narrative with a beginning, a climax, and an ending; it is easily packaged, marketed and sold to individuals from across the world, and this is done through the senses and emotions. - Catalogue of the African Studies Library Film Collection in UCT Libraries Special Collections Catalogue of the African Studies Library Film Collection in UCT Libraries Special Collections Any queries regarding the ASL film collection please contact Bev Angus ([email protected]) Updated:June 2015 Introduction In film, as with all other African Studies material in Special Collections, we collect comprehensively on South and Southern Africa and we are also committed to strengthening and broadening our film coverage of the rest of Africa to meet existing needs and to create new opportunities for research. Film is a powerful and accessible medium for conveying the stories and images of Africa, past and present. The African continent has a long and proud tradition of film-making, and has produced many film-makers of international renown. Our collection contains documentaries, television series and feature films made by both African and international film-makers. Besides supporting the teaching and research programmes of the University of Cape Town, the African Studies Library makes provision for the preservation of the films in the collection. Please note: The films in the ASL are primarily for viewing by members of the University of Cape Town community. For a collection of African films with public access see the Western Cape Provincial Library Service collection at http://cplweb.pals.gov.za Tips on searching the collection: To facilitate searching, click the binoculars in the toolbar. Select Use Advanced Search Options. If you know the title of the film, enter the exact title in the box and select Match Exact Word or Phrase in the dropdown box e.g. “Cry the Beloved Country” For a keyword search where the exact title is unknown or you are searching around a particular topic, enter appropriate keywords in the box provided, then select Match any of the Words in the drop-drown box below e.g. - An Integrative Review of Albertina Sisulu and Ubuntu: Relevance to Caring and Nursing health sa gesondheid 21 (2016) 214e227 Available online at www.sciencedirect.com ScienceDirect journal homepage: http://ees.elsevier.com/hsag/default.asp Special Edition 2016 An integrative review of Albertina Sisulu and ubuntu: Relevance to caring and nursing * Charlene Downing a, , Marie Hastings-Tolsma b a Department of Nursing, Faculty of Health Sciences, University of Johannesburg, Johannesburg, Gauteng, South Africa b Initiative for the Study of Normal Birth, Louise Herrington School of Nursing, Baylor University, Dallas, TX, USA article info abstract Article history: Background: Caring forms the core component of nursing. The history of the nature of Received 12 November 2015 caring in South Africa is non-speciﬁc and is unknown. The impact of nurse and activist Accepted 7 April 2016 Albertina Sisulu e known as the Mother of the Nation e has the potential to offer unique insights into what could be the context of caring for nurses. Aims: The study aimed at 1) critically synthesising the available evidence of caring as Keywords: portrayed by Albertina Sisulu within the South African context, and 2) interpreting Sisulu's Albertina Sisulu work within the Ubuntu philosophy as a framework for nursing and caring. Caring Method: An integrative review was completed using Whittemore and Knaﬂ's framework. Ubuntu Key electronic databases, selected references and web-based search engines were scoured South Africa for articles meeting the inclusion criteria. This systematic and iterative approach yielded Integrative review 18 non-research reports related to Sisulu; eight reports (three research, ﬁve non-research) Nursing related to ubuntu and nursing. Data was extracted that related to relevant and conclusive Midwifery new and innovative practices in caring. - The Changing Dynamics of Social Class, Mobility and Housing in Black Johannesburg1 The Changing Dynamics of Social Class, Mobility and Housing in Black Johannesburg1 Detlev Krige Abstract In contemporary public debates regarding the significance of social mobility, new cultures of consumption and the black middle class, the point is often made that Africans living in urban areas before the onset of constitutional democracy were a homogenous group lacking in significant forms of social differentiation. The continued side-lining of long histories of social differentiation among urban Africans today has the effect not only of indirectly overstating the role recent policies such as affirmative action has played in the emergence of the ‘new’ black middle class, but also in limiting the public understanding of the historically constructed, multiple and complex meanings that practices of consumption has had in urban African municipal locations. In this article, I argue for historically-sensitive and ethnographically-informed analyses of consumption practices that move beyond the stereotyping of the black middle class as ‘conspicuous consumers’. Looking at the history of public housing in Soweto helps us understand that ‘new’ cultures of consumption among citizens is often rooted in everyday experiences as subjects residing in social spaces – former urban African municipal locations – that were defined and designed as spaces of consumption and not of production or income-generation. The arguments contained in this article build on insights derived from my reading of James Ferguson (2002) and Daniel Miller (1988), especially around challenging interpretations of the renovations of municipal-owned housing in Soweto as a form of conspicuous consumption. 1 This article has benefited from comments provided by two anonymous reviewers. - Children and Transitional Justice Children and Transitional Justice Truth-Telling, Accountability and Reconciliation Edited by: Sharanjeet Parmar Mindy Jane Roseman Saudamini Siegrist Theo Sowa Published by the Human Rights Program at Harvard Law School © United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), March 2010 Printed in the United States of America This publication was jointly developed by the UNICEF Innocenti Research Centre (IRC) in Florence, Italy and the Human Rights Program, Harvard Law School, Massachusetts, United States of America. It is being distributed by Harvard University Press. UNICEF IRC publications are contributions to a global debate on child rights issues and include a wide range of opinions. For that reason, the Centre may produce publications that do not necessarily reflect UNICEF policies or approaches on some topics. The views expressed are those of the authors and are being published in order to stimulate further dialogue on child rights. All Rights Reserved Cover photo: © UNICEF/NYHQ2006-2801/Bruno Brioni ISBN: 978-0-9796395-4-8 Human Rights Program Harvard Law School 1563 Massachusetts Avenue Pound Hall 401 Cambridge, MA 02138 United States of America 617-495-9362 [email protected] http://www.law.harvard.edu/programs/hrp Distributed by Harvard University Press http://www.hup.harvard.edu Printed by Signature Book Printing, http://www.sbpbooks.com CHAPTER 4 CHILDREN AND THE SOUTH AFRICAN TRUTH AND RECONCILIATION COMMISSION Piers Pigou1 © UNICEF/NYHQ1994-0109/Ruby Mera UNICEF/NYHQ1994-0109/Ruby Archbishop Desmond Tutu, Chair of the South African Truth and Reconcili- ation Commission, speaking at the fourth annual Day of the African Child, declared by the Organization of African Unity in 1990 to commemorate the 1976 killing of children in Soweto, South Africa.
