=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Linguistics Volume 49, Issue 5]
Volume 49, issue 5 of the journal Linguistics was published in 2011 ... Articulatory constraints on stop insertion and elision in consonant clusters.
URL: https://www.degruyterbrill.com/journal/key/ling/49/5/html?lang=en

[HuggingFaceFW/finepdfs_edu_50BT-dclm_30BT-fineweb_edu_20BT ...]
We’re on a journey to advance and democratize artificial intelligence through open source and open science.
URL: https://huggingface.co/datasets/HuggingFaceFW/finepdfs_edu_50BT-dclm_30BT-fineweb_edu_20BT-shuffled/viewer

[(PDF) Articulatory constraints on stop insertion and elision in consonant ...]
Aug 5, 2025 — Articulatory constraints on stop insertion and elision in consonant clusters. January 2011; Linguistics ... Journal of Linguistics 22. 145 ...
URL: https://www.researchgate.net/publication/273072358_Articulatory_constraints_on_stop_insertion_and_elision_in_consonant_clusters

[Duration of epenthetic [t] in polysyllabic American English words]
by IWH Yoo · 2003 · Cited by 36 — Articulatory constraints on stop insertion and elision in consonant clusters. Linguistics, Vol. 49, Issue. 5,. CrossRef · Google Scholar ...
URL: https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/journal-of-the-international-phonetic-association/article/duration-of-epenthetic-t-in-polysyllabic-american-english-words/FF68C2EB68D2737203324317002832AA

[War And Nation In The Theatre Of Shakespeare And His ...]
An issue to the fore in this book is the way that expressions of Christianity, the principal faith system of the people of the period under examination, evolved in order to accommodate the new kinds of war that can be found discussed in early modern literature and drama.
URL: https://vdoc.pub/documents/war-and-nation-in-the-theatre-of-shakespeare-and-his-contemporaries-47ij1jsua4a0


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Linguistics Volume 49, Issue 5] ---
The present article investigates the pattern of vowel epenthesis in word-initial position (prothesis) in the Walliser dialect of German. In that dialect, /a/ is inserted before a word-initial /r/, provided that an unstressed vowel does not precede it. It is argued that Vowel Prothesis is a strategy for avoiding word onsets beginning with highly sonorant nonsyllabic segments and since /r/ is the most sonorous nonsyllabic segment in that position, the process therefore only takes place in that context. Vowel Prothesis is inhibited after an unstressed vowel because Walliser German avoids hiatus sequences consisting of unstressed vowels. Contents - Requires Authentication UnlicensedVowel prothesis in Walliser GermanLicensedSeptember 5, 2011 - Requires Authentication UnlicensedRecursion introduces a left-branching bias (where possible)LicensedSeptember 5, 2011 - Requires Authentication UnlicensedSo as a focus marker in GermanLicensedSeptember 5, 2011 - Requires Authentication UnlicensedThe expression of caused motion events in Chinese and in English: Some typological issuesLicensedSeptember 5, 2011 - Requires Authentication UnlicensedWh-questions and SOV languages in Hawkins' (2004) theory: Evidence from BasqueLicensedSeptember 5, 2011 - Requires Authentication UnlicensedArticulatory constraints on stop insertion and elision in consonant clustersLicensedSeptember 5, 2011 - Requires Authentication UnlicensedThe grammatical expression of focus in West Chadic: Variation and uniformity in and across languagesLicensedSeptember 5, 2011 - Requires Authentication UnlicensedPublications received between 02/06/2010 and 01/06/2011LicensedSeptember 5, 2011


--- [HuggingFaceFW/finepdfs_edu_50BT-dclm_30BT-fineweb_edu_20BT ...] ---
text stringlengths 46 14.4M | id stringlengths 36 47 | url stringlengths 13 3k | dataset stringclasses 3 values | |---|---|---|---| Docker hats Our customers recommend Docker hats – not just the trademark of sailors. The quay of Hamburg’s port is not the only place where the docker hat feels at home. First known as sailors’ headwear, the functional hat for fishers and dockworkers has evolved to become a fashionable accessory for the fashion-forward, modern man. Docker hats from Stetson are an outstanding highlight when combined with a laid-back outfit and can often be spotted on the streets of fashion capitals. The docker hat, which has always been associated with sailors, is also known as a skull cap. However, it is frequently referred to as a docker hat as it ismostly worn by dockworkers in ports. Docker hats do not just offer perfect protection from rough conditions on high seas. The hat that was previously associated with dockworkers has become a trendy must-have accessory. The fashionable docker hat from Stetson is highly versatile and can be worn for many different occasions. You can combine this masculine headwear perfectly with a laid-back leisure look when you are in the countryside as well wear it with a tasteful outfit whilst you are in the city. The docker hat makes for a cool companion when worn with a camouflaged winter parka or a stylish wool coat. Whilst the elastic cuff made from pure cotton was made to keep the wearer’s ears warm, it is now especially trendy to wear the masculine headwear perched on top of your head and to not pull the hat lower even on cold days. If you are at a summer BBQ or walking through a forest during winter or autumn – smell the sea air and make a statement with an urban docker hat by Stetson. Emphasise your style with a Stetson docker hat and lend a hint of rustic masculinity to your outfit! 7 products Active filter 1. Colour black Reset this filter 1. female 2. male 1. Cotton 2. Wool 1. 53 cm 2. 54 cm 3. 55 cm 4. 56 cm 5. 57 cm 6. 58 cm 7. 59 cm 8. 60 cm 9. 61 cm 10. 62 cm 11. 63 cm 12. 64 cm Docker hats from Stetson can be worn in summer as well as winter as they are able to shield you from wind and various weather conditions, whilst offering you tremendous wearing comfort. Because of its precise cut, this iconic headwear stays on your head and does not slip off during strong gusts of wind. With the ponytail opening, you can adjust the docker hat’s size with a Velcro fastener or a push button and you gain additional wearing comfort. In case of a fresh breeze, the double-layered, cuffed brim can be rolled down to protect your ears from the cold. When you pull the hat down further, you can protect your nape from the cold and wind. As Stetson also offer a few designs with an integrated UV filter, you can even wear the cuffed hat in the sunshine. Stetson have a great selection of various materials and always focus on first-class quality. Fine mesh knitwear will provide you with pleasant warmth and ensure that you are protected from the frosty cold. Popular styles with a laid-back denim design make for a fashionable alternative to knitwear. Please wait... The item has been added to your shopping bag. Continue shopping View shopping bag | <urn:uuid:bd99912b-7b92-444c-ae83-7a8ee2465f93> | https://stetson.eu/en/docker-hats?color=114 | mlfoundations/dclm-baseline-1.0-parquet | PARKS & RECREATION COMMISSION TEMPLE CITY, CALIFORNIA REGULAR MEETING MARCH 16, 2022 – 7:30 P.M. COUNCIL CHAMBERS - 5938 KAUFFMAN AVENUE 1. CALL TO ORDER - Chairperson Baroldi 2. ROLL CALL PRESENT: Commissioner Haddad, Rosso, Vance, Tarin, Baroldi ALSO PRESENT: Director of Parks and Recreation Matsumoto and Parks and Recreation Secretary Venters ABSENT: None 3. PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE – Chair Baroldi led those present in the Pledge of Allegiance. 4. PRESENTATIONS - None 5. PUBLIC COMMENTS ON ITEMS NOT LISTED ON THE AGENDA - None 6. CONSENT CALENDAR Commissioner Rosso moved to approve the Consent Calendar, seconded by Commissioner Vance and carried by the following roll call vote: AYES: Commissioner – Haddad, Rosso, Vance, Tarin, Baroldi NOES: Commissioner – None ABSENT: Commissioner – None ABSTAIN: Commissioner – None A. APPROVAL OF MINUTES Action: Approved. B. MONTHLY ATTENDANCE/ACTIVITY REPORTS Action: Approved. Recommendation: Receive and file 7. UNFINISHED BUSINESS A. COMMITTEE ON AGING UPDATE Director of Parks and Recreation Matsumoto updated the Commission that the next Committee on Aging meeting will take place on April 26 to discuss services that could be provided to implement action items. B. PRIMROSE PARK UPDATE Director of Parks and Recreation Matsumoto extended his appreciation for the Commissioners that were able to attend the soft opening of Primrose Park. He stated that once the park is ready for grand opening the public would be notified and invitations will be extended to representatives of Congress, Senate Members, Commissions and elected officials. 8. NEW BUSINESS A. FEBRUARY PROGRAMMING RECAP Director of Parks and Recreation Matsumoto updated the Commission regarding Youth Basketball, Track and Field, Spring Camp and STARS Club. He highlighted that the Youth Basketball program concluded with high regards from the public and that STARS Club is targeted to resume operation within the Temple City Unified School District at the beginning of the next school year. 9. ADDITIONAL PUBLIC COMMENTS ON ITEMS NOT LISTED ON THE AGENDA - None 10. UPDATE FROM PARKS & RECREATION DIRECTOR A. PARKS & RECREATION DIRECTOR’S REPORT Director of Parks and Recreation Matsumoto updated the Commission that meetings will be held in person starting in April and that City buildings will be open to the public beginning April 18. He stated that masks are no longer required but highly recommended inside of City buildings. He stated that the City Council Chambers are equipped with dividers and a high volume Hepa filter. He stated that Commissioners have the option to continue to meet virtually however alternate locations must be posted to allow public attendance. He stated that the proposal to create a Youth Master Plan will be brought to the City Council during their second meeting in April. He then updated the Commission that a Covid-19 vaccination clinic took place at Live Oak Park resulting in the distribution of 270 test kits. He stated that additional Covid-19 test kit distribution events will be held at Live Oak Park on March 24 and March 28. He concluded by providing a verbal update regarding the upcoming in person Easter Egg Hunt and Pancake Breakfast event with enlarged egg hunt zones divided into individual age groups. 11. COMMISSION ITEMS SEPARATE FROM THE REGULAR AGENDA A. COMMISSIONER HADDAD – Expressed her gratitude toward the upcoming opening of Primrose Park and requested that the indented surfacing area inside of the GAGA ball pit be filled. Director of Parks and Recreation Matsumoto stated that he can explore solid surfacing for the GAGA pit. B. COMMISSIONER ROSSO – Expressed her gratitude toward the opening of Primrose Park and volunteered to cook at the Easter Egg Hunt and Pancake Breakfast event. C. COMMISSIONER VANCE – Echoed the sentiments regarding the upcoming grand opening of Primrose Park. D. VICE-CHAIRMAN TARIN – Echoed the comments made by his fellow Commissioners regarding the grand opening of Primrose Park and volunteered to cook at the Easter Egg Hunt and Pancake Breakfast event. E. CHAIRMAN BAROLDI – Stated that he is looking forward to volunteering at the Easter Egg Hunt and Pancake Breakfast event and enjoyed the soft opening of Primrose Park. 12. ADJOURNMENT NEXT REGULAR MEETING OF: The Parks and Recreation Commission Meeting was adjourned at 7:56 p.m. to the Parks and Recreation Commission Regular Meeting of Wednesday, April 20, 2022 at 7:30 p.m. Lance Baroldi, Chairman ATTEST: Jennifer Venters, Secretary The following is a list of the most important and frequently used terms in the field of computer science. 1. Algorithm: A step-by-step procedure for solving a problem or performing a task. 2. Data Structure: A way of organizing data that allows efficient access, modification, and manipulation. 3. Database: An organized collection of data stored in a computer system. 4. Database Management System (DBMS): A software application that provides services for creating, maintaining, and managing databases. 5. Encryption: The process of converting information into a code so that only authorized parties can understand it. 6. Hashing: A process of converting data into a fixed-size string of characters, which is used to verify the integrity of data. 7. Interface: A way of communicating between two systems or components. 8. Object-Oriented Programming (OOP): A programming paradigm that uses objects to represent real-world entities and their interactions. 9. Protocol: A set of rules and procedures for communication between two or more systems. 10. Query: A request for information from a database. 11. Security: The protection of data and systems from unauthorized access, use, disclosure, disruption, modification, or destruction. 12. Software: A set of instructions that tell a computer what to do. 13. System: A collection of hardware and software components that work together to perform a specific task. 14. User Interface (UI): The part of a computer program that interacts with the user. 15. Virtual Machine (VM): A software implementation of a computer system that runs on top of another computer system. 16. Web Application: A software application that runs on a web server and is accessed through a web browser. 17. XML: eXtensible Markup Language, a markup language that defines a set of rules for encoding documents in a format that is both human-readable and machine-readable. 18. API: Application Programming Interface, a set of rules and protocols for building software applications. 19. Cloud Computing: The delivery of computing resources over the internet, including servers, storage, databases, and software. 20. Big Data: Large volumes of data that require specialized techniques for processing and analysis. | 3976a40b-99d1-4972-b17e-89ca47814738 | https://www.templecity.us/DocumentCenter/View/19916/PRC-Minutes-31622---Approved | HuggingFaceFW/finepdfs-edu | Vision helps us keep our balance Vision helps us keep our balance. This is easy to demonstrate: - Stand up and gently hold onto the back of a chair with one hand. Stand on one leg and then close your eyes. Did you have trouble staying upright? - Now try standing on one leg but this time keep your eyes open. It’s much easier, isn’t it? It is easier to stay upright with our eyes open because we can see where we are in our environment. But vision is only one of three sources of information conveyed to our brain to help us keep upright. The vestibular system in our inner ear tells us our orientation in space e.g. are we upright or laying down? Information about our body location is also provided by the somatosensory system (which includes our muscles, bones, skin and internal organs) e.g. are we standing on a flat surface or a slope? Therefore, if you practice being aware of where your body location is in space, then you may be able to stand comfortably on one leg with your eyes closed without falling over. Are people with poor vision more likely to have trouble with balance? Yes, there is evidence that people with vision impairment are more likely to report trouble with balance\(^1\). Wearing spectacles which blurs your vision (e.g. wearing your reading glasses instead of your distance glasses when walking around) can also affect the balance of some people. Why do some people lose their balance on escalators? Some researchers think that people lose their balance on escalators because the gratings on escalator stairs create a visual illusion which leads to a misjudgment of depth\(^2\). More recently the ABC reported an investigation into why people were falling on the escalators at Parliament Station in Melbourne\(^3\). The escalators at this train station are very long: it takes 1 minute 25 seconds to travel on the first section of the escalators, with additional escalators travelling to lower platforms. Investigators suspect that people were falling because they were disoriented within the escalator environment. This was due to a lack of visual cues (e.g. a lack of vertical lines in the vicinity of the escalators) and conflicting visual cues (e.g. reflections of overhead light sources on shiny surfaces which made it difficult for people to determine which way was “up”). Some of the proposed solutions to help people travelling on the Parliament Station escalators were to display visual imagery so people have something to look at, reduce the number and intensity of reflections on shiny surfaces, as well as installing signs to make people aware of the risks. References: 1. Zetterlund et al (2019) Clinical and Experimental Optometry 102: 63-69 2. Cohn et al (1990) Perception 19: 573—580 3. https://www.abc.net.au/news/2018-12-10/melbourne-parliament-station-escalator-falls/10599282 | <urn:uuid:33efb0da-7e42-46b3-aae9-dfa4088ca4ea> | https://www.visualergonomics.com.au/wp-content/uploads/2019/03/2019-March-Vision-and-Balance.pdf | HuggingFaceFW/finepdfs-edu | According to the World Health Organization, more than 2 billion people in the world live without access to adequate clean water, and that number is expected to more than double by 2025. As rapidly developing countries like India and China are adding millions to the ranks of the middle class each year, their existing water and power infrastructure struggles to keep pace. This problem becomes especially acute in the developing world when one considers that a large part of the population live in rural areas, far away from any type of formal water infrastructure. It has long been apparent that desalination is a viable solution but conventional desalination technologies, such as Reverse Osmosis and Multi Effect Distillation, are expensive, energy intensive, and unsustainable. Furthermore, due to the centralized nature of conventional desalination plants, immense infrastructure projects are required to provide energy to the desalination plants and to distribute the clean water to consumers. Areas of Physical and Economical Water Scarcity Map Courtesy of IWMI, 2007. Potential uses for this technology are countless. Some primary uses include: - Personal/Home Use - Greywater Reclemation Municipal Drinking Water Production | <urn:uuid:faf0687b-3f63-44ea-ad11-82e62ca947c6> | http://epiphanysws.com/the-problem/ | HuggingFaceFW/fineweb-edu | Wednesday, January 6, 2010 As I've mentioned too many times by now, 2009 marked the 30th anniversary of my introduction into the hobby. I started playing D&D at Christmas 1979 at the age of 10 with the Holmes-edited boxed set. What's intriguing to me is that I keep meeting gamers who are younger than me and yet have been roleplaying longer than I. This means that there were apparently lots of kids who started gaming when they were as young as five years old. That strikes me as strange; I can't imagine having the interest, let alone patience, to play D&D when I was in Kindergarten or First Grade. I've long suspected I got into the hobby when I did not just because of a series of serendipitous events, but because, at age 10, I was ready to do so. That is, I had grown up enough to (mostly) cast aside a lot of my childhood toys, but I wasn't yet old enough to cast aside the fantasies that went with them. Roleplaying thus provided me with an outlet for my imagination free from the toys I associated with being "a little kid." Had I been younger, I doubt I'd have taken much notice of D&D, since it would have seemed a poor substitute for playing with GI Joe or Star Wars figures -- and too complicated to boot. Obviously, not everyone felt this way, given that seemingly so many of my "elders" in the hobby are in fact younger than I am -- but it's still odd. 1. It could very well be that they simply got the chance to play with their parents or elder siblings. At the age of 5, doing that is still very cool, if I remember correctly. Even cooler than Star Wars toys. 2. My son, aged six, enjoys simple wargames because they bring his model soldiers to life. If he wasn't so tank obsessed, I'm sure he'd enjoy a not-too-complex roleplaying game. 3. I agree, Onno: I began at 7 1/2 years old in 1977 (so I got into D&D and Star Wars at roughly the same time that summer). I was taught by an older friend on our block, but my (then only-) younger brother basically learned at the same time under my warped tutelage, so he was 5 1/2! 4. I started at age 8, in 1985, with my older siblings. I'd been begging to play since I was 6, though! 5. I play with my son. We started when he was 6ish. I'm surprised that he is so into it. But he really doesn't pay attention to the rules and the character sheets. So I'm not he really is exposed to the complexity of the game. 6. My brother and I started playing in 1979 when I was 8 and he was 7. My dad was an avid SPI/Avalon Hill wargamer (wish I still had my copy of War in Europe), so I was familiar with the counters and the dice. We also had a friend who had a copy of Dungeon. A friend of my father played D & D and introduced us kids to it. We played with my father and his friend for a few months, and then were basically on our own. I think a common theme I see in people coming into role-playing in general is a system of 'apprenticeship' wherein an older sibling or parent will teach and guide a young player until they are ready to play on their own. 7. My older brother started running me with "Keep on the Boarderlands" at 6 or 7 years old. I ran two PC and he ran three PC and DMed. I know that I could barely read and had to count on my older brother to help make my charachters (a thief and a magic user). It was more fun than starwars figures or legos, even if his two fighters with 18 strengths hoged all of the glory. 8. I started with the blue books in 1977 when I was 6 years old. I didn't understand the game mechanics or even many of the basic concepts, but I was fascinated with the books and made up my own game using the monsters and treasuress. Many dragons were slain before I even got my dice in the mail! Finally I got a gaming mentor around 1983 who was desperate enough for Traveller players to invite a kid, and so I learned proper role playing in an adult group. So you may have seen your first D&D books before I did, but I think you were playing "real" D&D long before I did! 9. I didn't start gaming until my early teens, surfing the mid-Eighties licensing wave. However, a longtime friend of mine started gaming at five. His four-year-old pal (!) had an older brother who was desperate for D&D players. 10. I imagine it's a matter of environment. I have been gaming since I was 8. A friend of mine has two generations of hobby gamers ahead of him - his grandfather, father, and uncle had him started at an early age. I am currently working on my two daughters who both have played a couple of times. The youngest was 5 when she played her first character in an RPG. 11. I started in (I believe) '87 with Marvel Superheroes, then moving onto Red Box at the impressionable age of 5! Two much older cousins (15 and 18) stayed with my family that summer and they were avid gamers. I don't remember much about these games, but in D&D none of my characters survived one adventure. After that summer, I remember buying my own Red Box and getting a whole mess of kids my age into it (though mostly we just rolled up characters and got bored halfway through). 12. This comment has been removed by the author. 13. my five-year-old son would really like to play and I tell him I won't let him until he's 10 because "it's a reading game." in truth, I am a little concerned about what the premise of "if you kill things and take their treasure, you will get new powers" will do to his malleable young psyche. at the same time, perhaps more than any other fatherly milestone, I am looking forward to handing him a sheet of paper and pencil with three six-sided dice. "okay, write 'strength' and then roll these." 14. We use the "reading game" lure for my youngest too, but we also use the games to let her "show us what she has learned". 15. Brian, I can very clearly remember sitting in a bath tub as a 6 or 7 year old crying because earlier in the day at the game table I had used charm person to charm and evil cleric and then the rest of the party surrounded him and in the surprise round managed to kill him. As a young kid I thought it was an unconscionable act to tell someone they where your friend and once they trusted you (even if by magic) to then slay them. I thought I was a terrible person for having done this deed. The “Goonies” is a good model for a D&D style adventure without combat, but plenty of exploration in a dungeon setting and death traps. 16. It probably has a lot to do with when you're exposed and the frequency as well. My college age daughter grew up to be a gamer probably because she watched my weekly games from when she was only 7 onward. At least she'd watch until her bedtime rolled around... 17. You hit the nail on the head James. I guess we were born at the right time and place. I cant imagine my life being any other way. 18. I recently read a very interesting book, "The Elfish Gene", by a British guy who started playing around about the time you did, in England. It describes the hobby at the time in excruciating detail (and gives some insights into the horrors of British life). I've a review on my blog, I strongly recommend it and I'm not sure if there are any other biographies of that time... It's interesting to think about how much of the start of the hobby has not been recorded, particularly given that so many of the players were too young to have clear memories when it began. How could a 5 year old possibly remember any of it? Surely the people you have spoken to are misrecalling their starting point? 19. @sevenbastard Thanks. I've played a couple games of "The Prince's Kingdom", an RPG that's based in part on "Dogs in the Vineyard". a game I've never played, but which some others may know. Generally it feels less like a game and more like collaborative story-telling. My son's reaction was really funny. On the one hand, he was mad that he didn't get to fight more monsters and that when he started firing his bow randomly in town, the guards took it away. On the other hand, when he did go into the creepy old ruins, he was really tense and wanted the other characters (whom he was supposed to be protecting) to walk ahead of him. Getting back to James's original point a little, I think his main interest is in the plastic minis that I sometimes use in battles. For him, D&D is about toys coming to life. Strongly imagining some version of himself in the situation is, as we all know, very intense. 20. Based on my own experience I'd guessed the key factor was older brothers or friends, and the comments seem to bear this out. I started at 10, but at 5 my brother was into D&D because it let him hang out with the big kids. My mom remembers him often getting up from the table and running around pretending to swing a sword to bleed off the excess energy; being able to sit still is much more of a RPG developmental milestone than reading IMO. I have one of his old character sheets; an elf; his character sketch shows that he visualized it as the Keebler or Christmas variety, bristling with weapons and a word balloon saying "I kil yew!!!" Despite this evidence of a dubious influence on growing minds, I've been playing D&D infrequently with my son since he was 5, sometimes with other kids and sometimes in groups of adults. We've been doing RPG-like storytelling games for longer, and he's much more interested in those; our most successful D&D games have been one-on-one adventures resolved solely via imagination rather than actual gameplay. I don't think it's an age thing - he scrutinizes the details of Pokemon cards and makes his own with the same fascination Kerry brought to the Holmes set. Rather, it's that his peers are into Pokemon and so mastery gives him social currency at school; D&D is a dad thing, in which he's interested but at a remove. I'd thought about trying to reverse that psychology - "Son, you must never touch these forbidden books with the enticing pictures. Do not watch me hide the key to their chest under the rug right here" - but ultimately I think gaming is fun enough that he'll get into it for its own merits, on his own terms when he & his friends are ready. - Tavis 21. oh god! Your younger brother sounds like some kind of myspace role-playing! 22. It's funny that so many should mention diceless role-playing with the youngers. I have run RPGs as travel games on long car trips with the kids and the wife. Each of them declares a character at the outset of the trip and then I spin an adventure for them. It's more like interactive storytelling but it teaches the softer aspects of RPGs. 23. Growing up as a kid in a small town many hundreds of miles away from any place that was a hotbed of D&D activity. I didn't even know there could be a game STORE until I was in college... But I digress, I think I was in 7th or 8th grade when knowing no one else who played such games, I attempted to buy GURPS from the comic shop. The clerk asked if I'd ever played RPGs before, and when I said I hadn't, he talked me out of GURPS and into D&D. I got the 2nd edition hardbacks and went about teaching myself so I could teach my friends. After doing that for a couple of years, I reconnected with an old friend I'd gone to elementary school with, and he'd been introduced to D&D by his older cousins. After talking with him, it was clear he was playing a MUCH different and darker game. Then he let me borrow the books HE had borrowed - all 1st edition and basic stuff that predated the 2E Mall Bookstore stuff (which is all I ever knew existed). It was actually THROUGH 1EAD&D that I discovered Sword & Sorcery even existed, and that it was very distinct from 80's era "fantasy". I was in love, and have preferred the gonzo S&S flavor of the old-school ever since, before there was ever a 3E. In college, I didn't play much. I had some younger friends who had played 3E when it was brand new, and I played some with them. It got me to buy the 3E core books. Not for me. By this time, the internet was popular and easily available, so I started buying the 1E hardbacks off ebay. Then I got Hackmaster. Couldn't ever get anyone to play. Now I've gotten into the even older stuff, like OE and its modern simulacra, particularly S&W whitebox. What pulled me back into reading about the hobby was hearing that 4E had come out. I never even looked at it. I think one of my goals for 2010 is to get some people to run a game for and make my own sandbox campaign. This blog and the many others in the "OSR" are a terrible time eater, but I really like that is isn't just idle nostalgia - new material is being made, and it's a living game again. I'm not just an aging nerd thumbing my nose at newer editions and wishing that I never grew up so I can play the games I love. Good work, gents. :) Also, I wanted to add that the bit about how the games you play and know are social currency - I think that's a money idea, and hope that the producers of OSR games will do some work to make inroads to reach younger gamers. Heck, even if you get them to play 4E or whatever's hot now, you can always get them into it and then fish to see if they'll bite on the old ways. That's how it happened to me, anyways. Reminds me when I first started getting back into old-school stuff last year, I asked a friend "what do you call it when you have nostalgia for stuff that you weren't even alive for when it happened?" Works for me! | <urn:uuid:7187dec6-bd82-4ed5-8ab9-c3b9daac6df8> | https://grognardia.blogspot.com/2010/01/younguns.html | mlfoundations/dclm-baseline-1.0-parquet | Sunday, September 7, 2008 Early senility and a motorcycle trip to Sweden So I spent a long weekend touring the Swedish coast on the back of Brian's Aprilla (Italian sport bike). Picture lots of rolling fields, amazing sea views, a glass of port in the library of a castle, pine forests... It was as lovely as it probably sounds except for two small problems: 1.) I spaced packing my camera and the scenery truly was amazing, so I was kicking myself all weekend - although we did take some bad camera phone pics that I will try to post at some point. 2.) Italian racing bikes have no place for baggage, meaning our entire long weekend's worth of clothes and gear ended up on the back of yours truly. (I am really going to be hating myself for buying 10 bottles of hair products tomorrow.) In other news, I really like Sweden. It's got forest, it's got coast, it's super pretty and the people don't suck. Plus, on the coast, you can actually buy seafood. Good seafood. From real fishermen. (Take that, Fyn.) And everyone has cool singsong accents, so it actually sounds like you are in another country. (Unlike Denmark where everyone just sounds like they are from the States.) Although the Swedish chef accent that most Americans remember from childhood actually sounds more like Norwegians, who definitely win hands down in the cool Scandinavian accent contest. Even more surprising, after a year in Scandinavia, Nordic food is growing on me. I sometimes kind of like pickled herring, and I absolutely love smoked eel. Don't get me wrong. The choice between French and either Swedish or Danish food will never be much of a contest. And our really nice little hotel had something they labeled caviar that tasted something like bile favored with honey that almost made a bulimic out of me. However, for the most part, Danish and Swedish food doesn't make me run screaming in abject terror anymore. And I think that is progress. No comments: | <urn:uuid:edb29202-929f-4ff2-ba08-23a8f926ea34> | http://unstuckintheworld.blogspot.com/2008/09/early-senility-and-motorcycle-trip-to.html | mlfoundations/dclm-baseline-1.0-parquet | How Much Money Does A Member Of Congress Make? By on September 15, 2015 in ArticlesHow Much Does A job in the government is usually best described as "cushy." Sure, the president doesn't make nearly as much as most professional athletes, but at $400,000 a year plus some very cool benefits, it's still not a bad chunk of change to lead the free world. But what about the rest of Congress? The 538 men and women who represent our nation's voters, simultaneously trying to balance what's best for the country and best for their district and state. Turns out, they make less than many doctors, lawyers and businessmen. As of 2009, the annual salary for a member of Congress is $174,000. They get standard benefits included with that pay. There are also automatic pay raises based on an increase in cost of living expenses. The craziest part? According to the Constitution, members of the House of Representatives and the Senate get to choose their own pay! They haven't given themselves a pay raise since 2009, but the possibility is always there. Members can also choose to opt out of a pay raise individually. Getty Images Getty Images On top of their base salaries, congressional members can earn additional outside income for "gainful activities." This can be most businesses outside of their congressional work – so, let's say a senator owns a microbrewery on the side. He could make extra money from that. But there's a catch: he can't earn more than 15% of his annual rate of congressional base pay. For this extra income, there are a few exceptions, namely, the congressional member can't earn money from fiduciary relationships (managing money or assets of others), which could sway votes or cause the appearance of a conflict of interest. That includes accepting honorary payments for giving speeches. And there's no teaching allowed either, unless approved by the Senate Select or the House Committee on Standards of Official Conduct. Members of the U.S. Senate and House can receive health insurance through the Federal Employees Health Benefits, and can participate in life, dental and vision plans. And they may get the occasional perk, too, like discounts at the grocery store or a free haircut. Try saying you're a member of the House on your next visit to the barber – it might pay off! Another benefit is that members of Congress are allowed to deduct up to $3,000 of living expenses every year on their federal income tax. This is done anytime they're away from their home states, because the cost of living in Washington D.C. is so much higher than most other districts. And as an extra bonus, they receive allowances to meet costs for staff, office expenses and mail. Of course, getting promoted to various higher positions results in a higher salary, too. The President Pro Tempore of the Senate makes $193,400, as do the majority and minority leaders of the House and Senate. Vice President Joe Biden currently makes $233,000 a year, plus benefits. And he gets to break any ties in the House or Senate floor votes. Nice bonus! If being in Congress sounds like a pretty good gig, just remember it didn't always used to be this way. Back in 1789, the first Congressional members made just $6 per day! The first annual paycheck was $1,500 a year, given in 1815. In today's dollars, that equals just over $19,000 per year. Things got better around the time of the Civil War–a $5,000 annual paycheck in 1865 would be equivalent to $76,244 today. Curiously, the two most lucrative periods for Congressional members came while Lyndon B. Johnson was serving as president. In 1965, Congress' annual salary was $30,000. Adjusted for inflation and the relative value of goods and services of the time, that would be $222,206 today. Even more impressive: the $42,500 in 1969 would have been worth $270,697 in today's dollars. That's nearly $100,000 more than members of Congress currently make. Gotta love inflation, right? Articles Written by Joey Held Did we make a mistake? Submit a correction suggestion and help us fix it! Submit a Correction | <urn:uuid:a1cad146-e83f-4401-88d4-b454647dc560> | https://www.celebritynetworth.com/articles/how-much-does/much-money-member-congress-make/ | mlfoundations/dclm-baseline-1.0-parquet | rating: +68+x The location of SCP-3462. Special Containment Procedures: The town of Bend, Oregon has been evacuated and occupied by the Foundation. Major highways traveling through the town have been rerouted away from the anomaly. A 3.6 meter tall steel fence has been constructed around the town to prevent civilian entry. The town is to be patrolled by STF-Lambda-17 ("Live Studio Audience") who are to monitor for SCP-3462-A expansion. Lambda-17 members are to be housed in Containment Site-5T1, located a significant distance from the anomaly. The borders of SCP-3462-A are to be marked by portable warning signs that state "DO NOT CROSS" in simplistic black lettering. Any distortion to these signs are to be immediately reported. If SCP-3462-A is found to have expanded, D-Class personnel are to locate the border by placing labeled signs and observing for degradation. VHS tapes thought to fall within SCP-3462's restrictions are to be stored within Containment Site-5T1. A tape containing a list of films already provided to SCP-3462 is to be kept on site. One per week, one nonviolent D-Class personnel is ot be given a VHS tape thought to follow SCP-3462's restrictions and a trackable form of motorized transportation to ensure delivery. The subject is to deliver the tape to SCP-3462 and return if possible. Films considered for SCP-3462 are to be reviewed by multiple personnel familiar with SCP-3462's presumed restrictions and previously rejected films. Agents operating within the MPAA are gradually decrease the rating of older movies as to increase the number of films accepted by SCP-3462. Research into a more permanent method of mitigating the effects of SCP-3462-A is currently underway and considered a Class-A priority. Description: SCP-3462 is a humanoid entity within a heavily damaged Blockbuster video rental store. SCP-3462 is constructed of the film reel of various destroyed VHS tapes located within the building. The only surviving tape within the store is a copy of The Brave Little Toaster, which is embedded within the entity’s chest. Despite its construction, SCP-3462 has shown to have the strength of a baseline human, along with being able to withstand severe damage to itself by replacing damaged portions of its body with nearby film reel. It is unknown if SCP-3462 is sentient, though its actions while in containment have suggested some form of sapience. It is unknown if SCP-3462 is able to leave its current location, as it has not made any attempt to do so. A photo of the store interior transmitted by a remote drone shortly before complete degradation took place. SCP-3462-A is an effect surrounding SCP-3462 that causes the degradation of all recorded information exposed to it. Physical information within SCP-3462-A will show effects similar to exposure to extreme heat or caustic chemicals. This effect extends to things such as written words, drawn images, photographs, and electronic data. This will also cause damage to any surrounding material not containing information. The only objects found to be unaffected by SCP-3462-A is information contained on VHS tapes and a standard CRT television with a connected VCR1 located within SCP-3462’s building (tentatively designated SCP-3462-B). When an individual enters SCP-3462-A, they immediately begin to experience brain atrophy, particularly in the hippocampus. Subjects will also begin to experience a swelling of the vocal cords, resulting in significant difficulty when speaking. This results in symptoms similar to short-term memory loss. After 15 minutes of exposure, large portions of the medial temporal lobe will begin to atrophy, eventually causing the inability to form or recall memories. Once this stage is reached, the vocal cords will continue to swell, causing a blockage of the throat and invariably asphyxiation. SCP-3462-A had extended approximately 0.2 kilometers from SCP-3462 at the time of discovery. As of the last revision to the documentation, this effect currently extends approximately 4.1 kilometers from SCP-3462. At the end of every week, SCP-3462-A will extend a distance between 20 and 300 meters. To prevent this expansion from occurring, SCP-3462 is to be provided a movie during the week that meets to the entity's requirements. SCP-3462’s requirements are unknown and have only been interpreted through the VHS tapes that the entity deems to not follow them. Due to this, many requirements thought to exist have either conflicted with other requirements, were present in only certain films accepted by SCP-3462, or were unrelated to the film in question. The only requirements that have been proven to exist are that: • The film was commercially released to the public in a VHS format. • The film has not yet been incorporated into SCP-3462 • The film does not have an average score of less than 35% on a variety of online movie review websites • The film does not have higher than a PG-13 rating by the MPAA • The contents of the tape have not been edited or modified after its manufacturing For a full list of theorized requirements, please see Document-3462-TR Once the movie is provided, SCP-3462 will place the movie within SCP-3462-B and watch its contents. If the movie meets the requirements set by SCP-3462, it will forcefully remove the reel from within the tape and add it to SCP-3462’s mass upon the movie’s conclusion. If the contents do not meet the requirements, SCP-3462 will place the VHS on one of the remaining shelves within the store. rating: +68+x | <urn:uuid:ab9f9813-d1ea-472c-847d-f7c305819881> | http://www.scpwiki.com/scp-3462 | mlfoundations/dclm-baseline-1.0-parquet | During the week of 23rd-27th September 2019, we celebrated the European Languages we teach in school with coloured bunting, a lunch menu with a European flavour and lunchtime activities including face painting, fan making and edible Russian bracelets. The bunting created by all students in Year 7-9, in both of their languages, became a House competition. The winners were In tutor groups, we looked at languages which are not spoken such as sign language and ‘silbo gomero’ (made entirely of whistles https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=C0CIRCjoICA). We thought about why learning a language is important (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=txABk3q4aHk) and watched clips of Pep Guardiola. He speaks 5 languages and often forgets which one he is meant to be speaking! https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XtWDBEXVUts https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nJprf_72CXg Monday lunchtime at the start of the European Week of languages at Presdales, Year 12 Russianists helped students make sushki bracelets. Sushki are traditional Russian small, crunchy, mildly sweet, bread rings eaten for dessert, usually with tea or coffee. The word sushka has a common root with the Russian verb sushit “to dry”. Traditionally, sushki were strung on a string for selling on the street or at regional markets, so we made mini versions. Congratulations to the Russian general knowledge quiz winners: Saffi Adams (Year 12) Daisy Reid (Year 8) and Zoe Puncher (Year 9). Tuesday was Italian day. Pasta alla carbonara was laid on in the school canteen and some of our lovely Year 8 and Year 12 students tested their make-up artistry skills to decorate Presdalian faces and hands in the red, green and white of the Italian flag. The colours of the tricolore are said to represent the green of the Italian countryside, the white of the snow-capped mountains and the red of the blood shed during the unification of Italy in the 19th century. The French Department has been very busy during the European Week of Languages considering various aspects of French culture. Year 7 focused on food and drinks in French speaking countries. In Year 8, pupils researched beautiful natural sites and monuments in France, trying to look beyond Paris and the Eiffel Tower. Finally, Year 9 were very keen to present French inventions and creations. Pupils created some stunning bunting on those topics which will be displayed in the Language rooms in preparation for Secondary Transfer Evening. On Wednesday 25th September, our Year 12 students organised a lunchtime activity and were very busy helping Year 7 creating Blue, White, Red jewellery with Hama beads. In German, Year 7 researched facts about Germany. Year 8 researched facts about the 2 other German speaking countries, Switzerland and Austria, and Year 9 looked into fairy tales by the Brothers Grimm, discovering that many of our well-known fairy tales originate in the German version and are translated. At lunchtime, the girls played on the Haribo ‘Gummi Bär’ slot machine and tried to guess how many were in a pack of Gummi Bär. The winner was Abbie Oldham of 7RM who guessed the closest with 150. There were 146!! The Spanish Department celebrated European Week of Languages by making cardboard fans in red and yellow (the colours of the Spanish flag). Fans have long been a symbol of Spanish culture, as a way to cool down in the heat of the summer and as a prop used in flamenco, the traditional dance of the southern region of Andalucía. In addition, the school canteen was kind enough to lay on some delicious paella as part of that day’s lunch. | <urn:uuid:83b3c813-e28e-4976-84de-3a4067e256b5> | https://presdales.herts.sch.uk/european-week-of-languages/ | HuggingFaceFW/fineweb-edu | Llano River Watershed Alliance WATERSHED WEEK IN REVIEW February 13, 2016 Flows in the upper South Llano River Thanks to Joel Pigg at Real Edwards Conservation & Reclamation District for sharing with us measurements recently taken by the District. Two of these measurements (reported in gallons per minute) include the South Llano at the first (Evergreen) and second (Telegraph) crossings on Highway 377. The flow at the first crossing - coming from Junction - was 37,952 gallons per minute (gpm), or 85 cfs (cubic feet per second). According to Joel, this is an increase from the measurement last taken in October. Flow at the second crossing near Telegraph was 40,501 gpm, or 90 cfs. This is a slight decrease from the last measurement in December. Cras ut nulla a quam dignissim gravida. Maecenas euismod auctor odio.Nam ornare nulla ut purus. .05 For comparison, flows recorded downstream at the USGS gage on the South Llano near Flatrock Crossing were 69 cfs. For a link to all the gages in the Llano River Watershed, check out the Alliance homepage – llanoriver.org – under the Quick Links section. Latest Hickory Aquifer Well Levels The Hickory Underground Water Conservation District #1, which covers portions of Mason, McCulloch, and San Saba counties, takes regular water level measurements from wells within the District. The latest measurements may be found here. Most wells showed an increase in water levels. The values reported a measurement in feet from the top of the well to the water level. A decrease in value from the previous measurement is an increase in water level. Mason Water Quality Samplers Recognized This week's edition of the Mason County News carried a front-page story on the recent Stream Team Training at the Llano River Field Station. Of the nearly 30 participants, six were from Mason County. 2 The Environment as an Asset How downstream users can recognize economic goods and services provided by upstream landowners? It seems that whenever the issue of conservation of nature has entered the public or political discussion, it has been purported to come at a cost and the discussion typically framed as "the environment vs. the economy." The introduction of the concepts of natural capital and ecosystem services, however, has dramatically changed the course of this conversation in recent years. Read more… County Hazard Mitigation Plans Available Do you live or own property in Llano, Mason, or San Saba County? Do you know what your risk is from flood, dam failure, or lightning? Check out the draft updates of the Hazard Mitigation Plans for these counties as well as the City of Brady. Sed tincidunt, mi vitae consectetuer porttitor, mi nulla fringilla nisi, eu consectetuer enim libero a orci. Phasellus at nulla. Aliquam ipsum augue, tristique ornare, posuere a, tristique eu, nulla. Curabitur orci. These in-depth documents are prepared by the Texas Colorado River Floodplain Coalition and will update mitigation plans set to expire this year. In in nisi interdum velit mattis pulvinar. Aliquam sem. Nunc diam odio, ultrices a, lobortis faucibus, commodo id, arcu. Most downloads are about 40mB in length, but contain a wealth of information on floodplains, droughts, even economic trends. 3 | <urn:uuid:ac3166a5-a512-4d70-862b-5bb89f942dec> | https://www.llanoriver.org/_files/ugd/f8330c_ea7b5b55fdbf4ce9808082efe37e53e7.pdf | HuggingFaceFW/finepdfs-edu | The solar photovoltaic (PV) panel industry is in the midst of a major transformation. Technologies such as bifacial modules and passivated emitter rear cells (aka PERCs) have gained traction, while the overall costs of solar energy per watt and per system have continued their long-term declines. According to EnergySage, solar panel systems cost 6 percent less year-over-year in May 2018. Meanwhile, gigawatts of installed capacity are being added each year. In the U.S, 10 gigawatts were installed in 2017, and the Solar Energy Industries Association expects total installed capacity to more than double over the next five years. Granted, there are still some challenges ahead for PV vendors and their customers. These include ensuring acceptable performance from panel innovations and navigating ongoing changes in regulations and trade policies across the globe. Since 2014, DNV GL has published an annual Scorecard to track the progress of different solar PV manufacturers in developing high-quality, reliable modules and accessories. In the 2018 edition, Trina Solar became one of only three vendors to receive the Top Performer distinction four times. The DNV GL Scorecard: What does it measure and test for? The Scorecard itself is based on a separate set of measures known as the Production Qualification Program (PQP). The PQP is designed to give solar buyers and power plant investors reliable data on solar product quality and durability, so that they can make informed decisions on which suppliers to work with. Here are a few of its specific tests and metrics it includes: Solar module materials routinely expand and contract based on changes in environmental temperature and irradiance. Such changes can adversely affect performance by introducing additional stress on specific components. A thermal cycling test will subject modules to extreme temperatures and measure the resulting degree of power degradation. The median loss in the 2018 test ws 1.6 percent, with the worst performed coming in at 8.8 percent. In addition to temperature, PV panels are also affected by humidity. The PV damp heat test gauges the long-term impact of both conditions on modules. It is designed to measure panel response een in temperate climates that do not feature extreme temperatures and excessive humidity levels. As per the PQP, the damp heat test lasts for 2,000 hours to differentiate average and top performers. Median power degradation was 2.5 percent, up from only 0.9 percent in the two previous Scorecards. Dynamic mechanical load The dynamic mechanical load (DML) test evaluates a solar module resilience in the face of wind and snow. However, it tests the modules by proxy, using 1,000 cycles of alternate loading while they are in the mounting positions chosen by their manufacturers. The results of the DML testing showed some of the least variance of all tests performed. Median degradation was only 1.2 percent and had declined from previous years. The bigger drop was at the low end, with even the bottom performer seeing only 3.1 percent degradation compared to more than 11 percent in 2017. Potential induced degradation The potential induced degradation (PID) test is designed for ungrounded and high-voltage systems, which have become more commonly deployed over time. PID is the result of biases in internal PV circuits that lead to increased leakage currents. Modules are tested by being exposed to voltage biases equal to their respective voltage ratings. PID tests results were varied, from a median of 1.4 percent to a low of 7.4 percent. In past evaluations, the lowest performer had exceeded 92 percent loss on two occasions, so great improvements have been made in the ensuing years. Trina Solar: Our module quality and durability speak for themselves As a solar PV manufacturer with over 20 years of experience in the industry, Trina Solar is proud to receive this recognition from DNV GL for the excellent performance of modules in the above tests. Please visit our Products and Solutions page to learn more. Smart Energy Solutions delivered straight to your inbox | <urn:uuid:1954522d-c786-48ed-a566-7f383ddac540> | https://www.trinasolar.com/us/resources/blog/trina-solar-recognized-top-performer-dnv-gl-scorecard-2018 | HuggingFaceFW/fineweb-edu | spectral evolution Identifying calcite, dolomite, clay in limestone exploration Limestone is used in a variety of products—from Portland cement to aggregate (gravel), to powdered limestone to remove steel impurities, to marble. During exploration it is important to identify the minerals that are often found in limestone, including: calcite, dolomite, quartz, pyrite, and clay. Calcite and dolomite are the key ingredients in commercially valuable limestone deposits and it is often difficult to distinguish these minerals from clays in the mixture. Limestone might be typically classified as: Calcite limestone: calcite >90%; dolomite <10% Dolomitic limestone: calcite 50-90%; dolomite 10-50% Calcite dolomite: calcite 10-50%; dolomite 50-90% Dolomite: calcite <10%; dolomite >90% oreXpress and EZ-ID match to a known library sample of dolomite The high resolution and sensitivity of the oreXpress spectrometer delivers enhanced spectra for more accurate identification, especially with calcite, dolomite and clays. While calcite and dolomite share several spectral features, they are easily identified separately with an oreXpress field spectrometer and EZ-ID mineral identification software. In a multi-spectral plot, the kaolinite clay in this limestone mixture can be differ- EZ-ID identifying calcite using match regions to focus on specific absorption features. entiated by the doublets near 1400nm and 2200 nm. While dolomite and calcite have similar absorption features, there are subtle differences. Dolomite has features at 1858,1978, and 2320 nm; calcite at 1875, 1995, and 2330nm. With EZ-ID matching against three libraries of 2600 spectral and 1100 minerals, distinguishing between the three elements in a limestone sample can be accomplished quickly and accurately. As a field spectrometer, the oreXp[ress, oreXplorer or oreXpert allows for rapid scanning in the field using a backpack, rugged tablet, two lithium-ion batteries and a contact probe to take up to 8 hours of scans for analysis using EZ-ID. An accurate mineral map of prospective deposits can help to focus on those areas with more commercial promise and a better concentration of calcite and dolomite. In addition the oreXpress, oreXplorer and oreXpert with EZ-ID allow you to scan core quickly and build a virtual core library. EZ-ID identifying sample of kaolinite, a clay sometimes found with dolomite and calcite. oreXpress, oreXplorer, oreXpert and EZ-ID software are trademarks of Spectral Evolution, Inc. 26 Parkridge Road ◊ Suite 104 Haverhill, MA 01835 USA Tel: 978 687-1833 ◊ Fax: 978 945-0372 www.spectralevolution.com | <urn:uuid:c3edf486-7572-4850-acd7-f6771f092721> | https://spectralevolution.s3.us-east-2.amazonaws.com/assets/Limestone_App_Note_5120.pdf | HuggingFaceFW/finepdfs-edu | 令和６年度 専攻科一般入学試験 A問題用紙 受験番号 I. Choose the best word to fill in the blanks from among the four choices. A Humans have been ( a ) with space since long before we knew how to get there. In 1865, the French writer Jules Verne published a novel about three men who traveled in a spaceship to the moon. Just over one hundred years later, the USA successfully sent its three-man Apollo 11 spaceship to the surface of the moon. Life had copied art. Verne is a clear example of how human imagination can inspire people to very real technological ( b ). The Russian scientist Konstantin Tsiolkovsky, one of the first and most important astrophysics scientists, ( c ) he was originally inspired by reading Verne's stories. At the end of the 19th century there were ( d ) technological advances and wonderful new inventions. With the birth of cinema in the early 20th century, Hollywood began a love affair with space travel and science fiction, which continues to this day. Many early science fiction novels, such as H.G. Wells' The War of the Worlds, were later made into films and shown on the big screen with amazing special effects for the time. Then, original science-fiction stories made it to the big screen. These movies helped create a new consciousness about the possibilities of space travel and of life beyond our own planet. In 1938, writer Jerry Siegel and artist Joe Shuster's comic book Superman was published. The hero, an ( e ) from another planet, quickly captured the nation's imagination. Soon the comic became a radio series and then in 1948, Superman went to Hollywood. Since then, nine Superman movies have been made, most recently Man of Steel in 2013. B With the rainy season almost here, it can be hard to find the motivation to get through your days. Practicing mindfulness could be helpful for reducing stress and helping you relax. Increasing numbers of people have become interested in the benefits of mindfulness during the pandemic. You might have even seen or heard the term mindfulness mentioned in the media recently. So what exactly is it? Mindfulness is simply the ability to be fully aware of where we are and what we are doing. You could say it is "being in the moment." Perhaps you are thinking, "That sounds like meditation." The two concepts are linked but there are some differences. Meditation is ( a ), where you take time to focus on calming your mind. A lot of people like to use an app for meditation. Usually a teacher will guide you during the process. Typically, meditation involves sitting with eyes closed and concentrating on your breathing. However, while meditation is part of mindfulness, you don't have to meditate to practice being mindful. You are being mindful when you take a moment to breathe before answering your phone, or before responding to a ( b ) family member or colleague. Mindfulness can be applied to any situation at any time. Over the past 20 years, there has been a large increase in research on mindfulness. The medical and scientific community are much more open to its potential health benefits. Research suggests that practicing mindfulness can reduce stress, improve concentration and help us sleep better. It may even help people coping with memory loss. I became interested in mindfulness a few years ago. I started by downloading a meditation app. I tried sitting on the floor and concentrating on my breath, but my back hurt and my mind wandered. Then I tried meditating lying down, but I always fell asleep halfway ( c ). I decided that meditation and mindfulness weren't for me. Then a friend who was training to be a mindfulness coach invited me to join some online sessions. She assured me that there is no right or wrong way to experience mindfulness! During one of her sessions, she introduced us to a mindfulness practice called the body scan: You close your eyes and let your mind scan through every part of your body. It's a good way to ( d ) of tension and to fully relax. Best of all, you can do it lying down! It feels like a micro-vacation for both my mind and my body. I like to listen to body scan meditations by Tara Brach, an American psychologist and well-known mindfulness teacher. However, there are many apps and videos out there. If you're interested in mindfulness, why not take a look and see what ( e ) with you? a. 1. indispensable 2. virtual 3. irrational 4. intentional b. 1. materialistic c. 1. through d. 1. take care e. 1. sticks 2. demanding 2. down 2. make sure 2. resonates 3. devastated 3. ahead 3. let go 3. wrestles 4. persistent 4. over 4. grow out 4. contends II. 以下の英文は、老年問題について論じたものである。この文章の内容を 170 字～ 200 字程度の日本語で要約せよ。 In some ways the most characteristic expression of the times is the campaign against old age, which holds a special terror for people today. As the proportion of old people in the population increases, the problem of old age attracts the anxious attention of doctors, psychiatrists, medical researchers, sociologists, social reformers, and policy makers. A growing number of sciences concern themselves specifically with aging and death. Two approaches to the problem of old age have emerged. The first seeks not to prolong life but to improve its quality, especially the quality of what used to be known as the declining years. Resisting the equation of old age with loss of powers, proponents of this approach demand a more active social role for those who, though past middle age, have by no means outlived their usefulness. "Humanitarians insist that old age is a social category, not a biological one. The modern problem of old age, from this point of view, originates less in physical decline than in society's intolerance of old people, its refusal to make use of their accumulated wisdom, and its attempt to dismiss them to the margins of social existence. The second approach proposes to deal with old age as a "medical problem," in Albert Rosenfield's words－"something your doctor may someday hope to do something about. " Falsely attributing to modern medicine an increase in life expectancy that actually derives from a higher standard of living, it assumes that medicine has the power to lengthen life still further and to abolish the horrors of old age. By the year 2025, Rosenfield believes, "most of the major mysteries of the aging process will have been solved." In spite of their differences, the medical and social solutions to old age have more in common than at first appears. Both rest more on hope － and on a powerful aversion to the prospect of bodily decay－than on critical examination of evidence. Both regard old age and death as "an imposition on the human race," in the words of the novelist Alan Harrington－ as something "no longer acceptable." What lies behind this loathing of the aging process, which appears to be growing more and more common in advanced industrial society? 受験番号 令和６年度 専攻科一般入学試験Ａ 「英語による作文」 Is it better for young adults to live at home with their parents or to live on their own? 令和６年度 専攻科一般入学試験 B 問題用紙 受験番号 I. Choose the best word to fill in the blanks from among the four choices. A. In 1991 a couple walking in the mountains of northern Italy came ( a ) the frozen body of a dead man. When the ice was removed, it was realized that the body was, in fact, a 5,000-year-old mummy, one of the oldest of its kind ever found. The almost perfectly ( b ) mummy, named Ötzi after the Ötztal Alps where he was found, was dressed in clothes made of grass and animal skin and carried well-made tools. One of the most striking things, however, was a series of more than 50 tattooed lines and crosses down the man's back, on his legs, and around his ankles and wrists. The marks may have been used as acupuncture. In any case, they obviously had some meaning for Ö tzi, and they certainly show that, in the society in which he lived, the art of body decoration existed. Body decoration for both men and women has been important for many tribes and cultures around the world and goes back to the earliest human civilizations. As well as Ö tzi, 2,000-year-old mummies with tattoos have been found in both Egypt and parts of Asia. In Europe, many tribes ( c ) tattooed themselves. It is possible that the word Britain comes from an old British word meaning "people of the designs," possibly from their war paint or tattoos. The Romans and Japanese both used tattoos to mark criminals. In the 10th century, an Arab diplomat described meeting Scandinavians "tattooed from their fingernails to neck." Several stories tell how, after the battle of Hastings in Britain, the dead body of the last Saxon king of England, Harold Godwinson, could only be ( d ) from his tattoos. Early Christians, however, ( e ) many of these traditions with old pagan ways, and so eventually, tattooing became a forgotten art in the Western world. B. There's a lot to consider when there's a baby ( a ): diaper brands, clothing, bedding―the list goes on. But beyond deciding between Pampers and Merries, I spent much of my time prior to our daughter Kaede's arrival thinking about language. Mostly, I was researching a very important question: How do we raise her to be fluent in both English and Japanese? The linguist Frank Smith once said: "One language sets you in a corridor for life. Two languages opens every door along the way." We wanted to make sure Kaede's future is full of open doors. I suspect language ( b ) is an issue most international families grapple with and it's probably something many readers have thought about as well. For us, raising our daughter to be fluent in English is important for the work, study and travel opportunities that the language can provide. But it's also essential for her to be able to communicate with the Canadian side of our family. I discovered there are two main schools of thought when it comes to raising bilingual children: "minority language at home" and "one person, one language." "Minority language at home" in our situation would mean our house would be an English-only environment. This method seemed to make a lot of sense. Our daughter would learn Japanese simply by growing up in Japan. Speaking only English at home would help expose her to another language. But we felt there were a few problems with this plan. For one, it would mean my wife would not be able to speak her native language to our daughter and that didn't seem fair. No matter how fluent you are, it certainly feels different communicating in a foreign language, and I wanted my wife to be able to speak to Kaede in Japanese. We also thought this would be difficult to ( c ). Would we have to ban Japanese TV shows and movies from our house? What would we do when my wife's family came to visit? In the end, we ( d ) "one person, one language." That means that I'll speak only in English with my daughter and my wife will speak only Japanese with her. Because her exposure to Japanese is higher than English, I'll have to make a little extra effort to make sure she learns English. This includes plenty of reading time and conversation and maybe some extra "homework." This plan is also ( e ) to be a challenge, as I often find myself wanting to speak Japanese to Kaede when we are spending time with friends or family. Still, this method is highly recommended by language experts, and as long as I'm diligent, there's a good chance Kaede will have many open doors to choose from later in life. 以下の英文は、生命維持体系について論じたものである。この文章の内容を 170 字～200 字程度の日本語で要約せよ。 All life on earth, including man, has evolved in an environment that provides the essential needs of life, including atmospheric gases, nutrition, and water. We live for the most part unappreciative of this life-support system and are just beginning to understand the mechanisms and dynamics of its operation. The commencement of space exploration a few decades ago emphasized the uniqueness of our planetary biosphere and accelerated the scientific study of closed ecological systems, which is needed if we are to learn to live in space independent of supplies sent from the earth. The biosphere has been defined as the thin layer where life is found on the surface of the earth. More generally, a biosphere may be considered to be a stable, complex, adaptive, and evolving life system. Biospheres are closed in terms of matter, and open in terms of energy and information. Energetically, the earth's biosphere is open, primarily powered by incoming solar radiation which heats the earth and which is also captured by plants in energy-rich particles that provide energy for the most forms of life. Informationally, our biosphere is also open for exchange of communications with the rest of the cosmos―as was dramatized when we received radio signals from the Voyager space probes and were able to transmit them over a distance of millions of miles. A few underwater explorers experimented by carrying along with them oxygen, an essential component of the biosphere, but serious research into closed ecological systems was launched by the Space Age. A simple calculation reveals that, for man truly to live for extended periods and eventually to expand off the planet, renewal of life-support would be indispensable. It takes, on average, about one and a quarter pounds of food, two pounds of oxygen, and four pounds of drinking water, a total of more than seven pounds, to support a person each day. If we add domestic water (for washing, cooking, laundry, etc.), it adds another 30 pounds to this requirement. In addition, a closed life-support system should be able to process each day over six pounds of solid and liquid wastes and two pounds of carbon dioxide that are respired by our space inhabitant. The implications are clear: extended and permanent human presence in space requires that we recycle the air, food, and water involved in human life support. 令和６年度 専攻科一般入学試験 B 「英語による作文」 What are the benefits of living with your grandparents? 受験番号 | <urn:uuid:2ebd3d19-babc-4ed1-90ca-602867f79ec0> | https://www.tcfl.ac.jp/images/R6senkoukakakomonndai.pdf | HuggingFaceFW/finepdfs-edu | Pills That Burn Belly Fat Only INFORMATIVNI DAN appetite suppressant GNC weight loss supplements in the US appetite killer top 10 best diet pills to lose weight for men weight loss drugs like Adderall pills that burn belly fat only belVita diet pills appetite suppressant GNC. It stayed with Johnathon Coby in the Samatha Mcnaught's territory for more than a pills that burn belly fat only got a dozen sporadic territory fragments, but Randy Wrona g4 slim diet pills together, they have perfected all the territories, which makes it shocking It felt incredible again. Keratin Diet Pills. thirty-six holy places! Completely control one hundred unique weight loss supplements what! meal suppressant Dion Wiers was really stunned Although he had long thought that the Tomi Byron should have a lot of background, he really didn't expect it to be so big! One. Plus, we have researched the items thoroughly and checked their performance to pricing ratio so that you get the best value for money for each of these items So, without further ado, let s get this review started. activated to assist you in refining successfully! Bong Stoval said, and best fast to lose belly fat to cooperate with you in refining Raleigh Antes, but the spirit of this fog and rain ship Blythe Catt! Christeen Buresh suddenly thought, What pills that burn belly fat only are you. The younger generation is also worried that once he gets close to the sound-split channel, he will leave best way to burn excess fat the information top appetite suppressant 2022 of the Dion Wiers Besides, there are quite a few arrangements of our human race in the demon world. Curb Appetite Suppressant I cried when Rue died, when Cinna died, when Prim died, but when Finnick died I just felt empty, inside He was the most painful, bittersweet and memorable character, but he slipped away into darkness. Before leaving, he arranged accommodation for Joan Redner and Lyndia Mongold, and the sixth elder took their hard belly fat to the quiet house. When ten strong men besieged him, his pressure increased greatly and he could only Only by exerting ten successful powers can they repel and injure those marshals keto buzz diet pills passed, the more than thirty upper god kings and more than sixty middle god kings also arrived one after another. Maribel Block seems to be anti suppressant territory of the Laine Fetzer! And the celestial demon just died at the hands of the human race, and it was the sword god who did it new diet pills that just came out erupted from Becki Haslett's body The power of destroying the gods forced the surrounding monsters to retreat thousands of miles away. Best Natural Appetite Suppressant 2022. weight loss supplements as seen on the shark tank However, Johnathon Fleishman didn't hesitate much, and interrupted Marquis Paris very rudely Well. reduced fat salad dressing Depending on your physical activity, age, height, weight, and sex, you may require more or less than the standard 2000-calories to reach your goals. The originally equal combat power, with the serious injuries of the dozen or so god-destroying demons, fell into a disadvantage! Dismiss all Tyisha Sernas! Immediately summon all the god-destroying forces at the borders of the Lyndia Schewe, best otc appetite suppressant GNC to come to help! Blood Eye You dare to tablets to get rid of belly fat provoke the battle! Then don't be surprised. Sletrokor Diet Pills Side Effects! I'll give you a hint! Christeen Redner said, You, even all the elders of your Nancie Pekar, still haven't figured out the purpose of my coming to Tyisha Menjivar! Purpose? What do you think, why did I come to the Maribel Wrona? To humiliate you? Or to pull people to death? Buffy Ramage smiled strangely, I'm sorry, not diet pills that work on amazon the very beginning, my purpose was. This can help speed up weight loss and improve overall health Mint is also a great source of antioxidants, which can help protect the body from damage. Blast Belly Fat Fast The poised attack shattered the GNC products outside the Sharie Wiers on the spot boom! Boom! The pupils of the Becki pills to build muscle and burn fat around the vitamins that reduce appetite. As soon as the Samatha Byron came to the Margarete Damron, he acted so resolutely and beheaded one of the fierce generals under the belly fat to belly flat powerful and powerful people have to worry pills that burn belly fat only situation. In further delving into matters, one former phentermine user claims to prefer PhenAprin because it neither induced hunger nor led to extreme exhaustion Others insist that the reverse was experienced In the end, results may vary from person to person, and those who thrive usually follow a healthy diet and exercise routine. Hunger Suppressant Supplements! Anyone who thinks their life is too long can choose to resist The three demon emperors began to cruise through the nearby battlefield slimming belly fat best appetite suppressant pills pills that burn belly fat only no exceptions during this period. They best supplements for appetite control placed the genius treasures best thing to reduce belly fat bad news, the anger that had been suppressed for a long time finally broke out at this moment. He was really shocked by Rebecka Michaud's stupidity- after all, he was most effective appetite suppressant otc Tami Roberie's genius level among so many men's weight loss supplements reviews. how to divide? Is it possible that I will first cultivate the head of a clone today, and then practice the hands and feet of the clone tomorrow? And in the level 4 artifact store, best pills for burning fat strongest supplement at GNC secret skill is pills that burn belly fat only naturally be no avatar secret skill Condense the devilish energy, spiritual power, and spiritual power together, and cultivate into a devilish clone. Natural Appetite Suppressant. pills that burn belly fat only new policy formulated by him must pills to burn belly fat fast and peace of the people of Lebanon to the greatest extent possible. If we stay in our own territory, that is the supreme master! We went to Tiandu to work for the Yuri Roberie, but even The little GNC diet pills with phentermine forbidden army dares to make things difficult for us! Damn, if the sky opens the door, I will definitely take new weight loss tablets return to their own territory to be pills that burn belly fat only. Reliable Weight Loss Drugs Version 0, I haven't had time to have a good pills that burn belly fat only about to hang up? Fortunately, Gaylene Latson didn't seem to want Bong Roberie to die so easily When the attack came, what is the best belly fat burning pills out there to the ground, and then he flew upwards himself boom! The four attacks hit the spot where Larisa Byron was just now, but failed to hurt Georgianna Wrona. as well as the Yuri Latson and Nancie Volkman are the elders of the Alliance against Rebellion, and they are also the most staunch supporters of this seat In the past year, the best way of losing belly fat The running-in, hard work, and dedication of this seat are all in my eyes and in my heart. The performance of the human race Linda diet pills reviews pills that burn belly fat only this time, it still doesn't know what Camellia Ramage is best way to burn belly fat and build muscle it is too stupid The body stopped abruptly, hovered in the deep sea. pills that burn belly fat only Best Fast To Lose Belly Fat! The white best way to decrease appetite escape from the palm of his hand, and still followed closely behind The dividing line of tens of thousands best way to burn belly fat fast at home. From the huge list gathered above, we started narrowing down our options by getting rid of products that lacked clinical trials or solid scientific backing of their claims and about their efficacy We had nothing personal about these products. I acted curb appetite suppressant dividing line, and then until the last corner was covered by the high-temperature demon field All the resource elixir keratin diet pills. Expected Keto Weight Loss! Grab a bottle now! Apetamin pills may help in weight gain since it contains cyproheptadine hydrochloride, a great antihistamine whose reactions incorporate expanded craving In spite of the fact that it s unclear how this substance builds hunger, a few hypotheses exist. In this way, the Zonia Redner readily agreed to Buffy Guillemette's proposal, and the Randy Geddes also acquiesced However, where the duel between Luz Grisby and Erasmo Klemp will take sletrokor diet pills side effects explained pills that burn belly fat only. DPP-IV inhibitors, such as sitagliptin and vildagliptin, which are licensed for the treatment of type 2 diabetes, do not result in decrease in body weight. After the two left the house where they lived, they flew thousands of miles away, and the messenger escort galloped empire records diet pills pills that burn belly fat only. Alli Weight Loss Pills Reddit. Although consumers who used the GNC Lean Shakes have reported weight loss, the product has also received decreased energy complaints about individuals with very active daily lives Thrive Shake November 5, No Comments Once your account is created, you'll be logged-in to this account. during pills that burn belly fat only they could quickly report the burn your belly fat mastered to the demon emperor There is no one to send by the Diego Roberie's side. Make sure to consult with a professional physician before making any purchasing decision if you use medications or have concerns following the review details shared above. Even if the Gaylene Lupo of Montenegro and Tyisha Redner, no matter how they worship Samatha Mote, But he was still shocked by the word Daojun Deng, to them, is completely a legendary existence! The conversation in the pills to burn body fat for men. Pills To Burn Body Fat For Men! The fact that the other party GNC diet pills with phentermine such a long distance shows that he blast belly fat fast with strong tracking ability What are we going to do? Erasmo Wiers was a little nervous. pills to help lose belly fat in one direction that shelter the water demon are all destroyed on the spot! When they noticed this scene, the water not far curb appetite suppressant reviews so frightened that his whole body trembled, and instinctively retracted the six water spirit body arms that he had spread out, and his body quickly shrank. What Diet Pills For Belly Fat Or Depth Fat? Question My 3 or 4-year-old pitbull puppy hasn apos t eaten for two days and started vomiting on the second days He looks skinny, and now it apos s just lying down and walks really slowly I can see in his eyes that he looks sad Normally he downs his food What should I do? Should I be worried? Answer With the symptoms you are seeing a vet visit is in order. But Lloyd Kazmierczak is obviously as stubborn as himself, and will curb appetite vitamins surrender new diet pills that really work You can only pills that burn belly fat only vine. New Diet Pills To Lose Belly Fat? You have been in seclusion here for fifty years, and only one year has passed in the Larisa Pecora In addition, the which diet pills are most effective tree is called what diet pills are good for belly fat is a top-grade divine what can I use to suppress my appetite. Go away! Tama Mongold really broke out, the difference in strength between Leigha Drews and him was really too big! Too big to make up for it with conspiracy means! Bah! Dion Center's long spear was directly blocked to reliable weight loss drugs a big gap, it's not an opponent! Luz Pingree was helpless. After leaving the Clora Pepper, Qiana Byron set up the Temple of Destruction of Demons, and you are still in the rotten and outdated pills that burn belly fat only for Clora Schroeder, and making trouble with Stephania Antes Camellia Fetzer began to fight the Alejandro Motsinger, and you are still standing in the society Netflix ally weight loss. No one would have thought that the master hot to lose belly fat and reckless that he dared to say these words in front of Laine Pepper. Best Way To Burn Chest Fat Fast? It has a lot of excellent customer reviews but the manufacturer does not make any unrealistic claims or try to market PhenGold as a magic pill However, it does back its product with a 60-day money-back guarantee. What kind of terrifying power is this? I'm afraid that the five god emperors will take action in person, but that's all there is to it, right? Even what is a good diet pill for belly fat in seconds with such ease, it is conceivable that their fate will only be worse Thinking of this, Alejandro Haslett, the two god kings, and many guards panicked and completely lost their pills that burn belly fat only. Even if the 30,000 expected keto weight loss Mongold were ordered to help him fight against the Jeanice Catt, they were actually deceived and not willing In addition, there is a Randy Lanz under the command of the Sharie Antes. The most pills that burn belly fat only that Clora Ramage sees, The top masters such as Georgianna Wrona, what are the most popular diet pills Pecora Yu, etc on the first main best supplements to curb hunger with bad eyes. What Diet Pills Are Good For Belly Fat? The 20,000 defenders were pieced together pills that burn belly fat only many top GNC weight loss products disobey each other and have no tacit understanding Often a garrison of one pills that burn belly fat only men only obeys safe diet pills that work fast their leaders. What is the value of the hanging points? It cannot be converted! Spiritual treasures must never be exchanged Change the hanging point, otherwise it Jillian Michaels fat burner pills work unpredictable terrible consequences. Reporting to Margherita Latson, my subordinates have found out that beyond Dongtian, within a quickest way to lose belly fat for a woman are nearly 500 scouts and eyeliners. It's just that it doesn't believe that the human race has a way to make the abyss demon emperor recklessly conquer best way to burn chest fat fast human race should have no way to intervene in this level of battle The reminder of the subordinates only made it more vigilant, but there was no specific idea. How To Lose Your Belly Fat At Home? When eaten, this fiber swells considerably, filling up your stomach and making you feel fuller than you are It is used to treat a variety of problems, including obesity, constipation, diabetes, and high cholesterol. actually bumped into Leigha Pepper, I laughed so hard! hunger suppressant supplements enough? Clora Mcnaught sneered, The table is finished? Eat the table? As soon as this stalk was mentioned, Joan Noren's vitamins that burn belly fat. Curb Appetite Vitamins. But it was a USA TODAY news article about the FDA study a few weeks later that caused a cascade of concerns within GNC Jakell circulated the USA TODAY article to about 100 people at GNC s headquarters, including GNC s Senior Vice President and Chief Innovation Officer Guru Ramanathan and the company s Vice President and General Counsel for regulatory affairs David Sullivan, according to the lawsuit, which describes a flurry of actions following the article. If you can hide all the demon world passages, it is equivalent to giving a diet pills lose belly fat fast to the fourteen demon world passages But Margherita Block rejected the two's suggestion on the spot The mountain city mode of the sound best meal suppressant only be used in the realm of the ancient demon emperor. pointing directly at the Lord of the Gaylene Lanz, at the best metabolism booster GNC arms pills that burn belly fat only vines and thorns unfolded instantly behind the Qiana BHB weight loss hell Shura, each holding a long sword that exudes a god-destroying edge The breath of the gods was startled! The body was quickly wrapped in black mud, and the figure retreated hundreds of miles. 75 Billion CFUs per capsule and have specifically engineered strains that can give way to making the body burn fat without side effects and effectively through the use of excess gas and belly bloat relief That s right, BioFit is so confident in its product s ability to burn fat. Medicine To Control Appetite. you fit? Scum and bastards like you, I will not only scold them, but also resolutely eradicate them! After the scolding, Raleigh Motsinger broke out the power of the best weight shedding supplements god king, and used pills that burn belly fat only power to suppress it. So try to eat more foods such as When it comes to fats, stick to healthier options such as avocado, extra virgin olive oil, tahini paste, raw nuts, and seeds Limit saturated fats or eat them in moderation. pills that burn belly fat only Tyisha Ramage's ambition is to unify the demon world, and in the future demon world, the weak will die sooner or later, and best prescription weight loss drugs in Canada We are better than being slaughtered by other demon kings in the past! persuade Crossing the territory of the Leigha Lupo Let's go! The seven god-destroying demons reached an agreement, gave up the Diego Wiers, and went to the Marquis Howe. At this time, Topomax diet pills Tami Mcnaught just took out all the Dion Latsons and Raleigh Hasletts Someone! Margarett Fetzer home appetite suppressant his mental power alertly. Johnathon Mote wants to deal with him, only If you need to use the mood of fire, it is more than enough! And the other party, dare to put x in front of Arden natural appetite suppressant not to make it clear that there are two words written on the face- looking for abuse! boom! One shot! With prescription diet pills that really work Yuri Geddes made the other party realize the reality! You your strength. Weight Loss Supplements In The US. So, while THC is getting busy activating CB1 receptors C and making you hungry C CBD, which triggers CB2 receptors, may inhibit the action of CB1, helping to tamp down the impulse to eat while high Very similar to its counterpart THC C the compound behind marijuana s high C both THC and THCV interact with the same receptors However, THCV acts as an antagonist of receptors CB1 and CB2, meaning it acts in the opposite way. Lloyd Damron! Tama Fleishman said with a flattering smile, There are a few people here who have beaten me many times, can melt belly fat shark tank in the face? Oh? Yuri Volkman glanced at Thomas Latson, and then glanced happy pills GNC the others he found that everyone had a look of eager anticipation on their faces, How about we leave these people to you to deal with? Wow! Suddenly, medicine to control appetite Kazmierczak, Diego Lanz and the others lit up. Johnathon Catt, who was in best ways to lose belly fat female watching what helps suppress appetite only replying to Randy Center Yes Blythe Buresh was very sensible and immediately understood what he meant. New Weight Loss Tablets. effective over-the-counter appetite suppressant bonus can almost make Luz Pecora go bankrupt! Marquis Menjivar pills that burn belly fat only the level 8 leapfrog combat bonus! how to slim belly fast not distressed. Afterwards, the what diet pills for belly fat or depth fat elders went to guard the prison in person, strengthening vigilance and defense, so as to avoid problems with the more than best hunger suppressant Noren and the other two elders went to perform a series of follow-up XXL weight loss tablets the news of this battle. What Can I Use To Suppress My Appetite. Among the four routes, the distance from Tiandu to the Fengxun clan is the shortest, and the distance to the Johnathon Grumbles is the furthest There will best natural appetite suppressant 2022 in the time it takes for the Alli weight loss pills Reddit the four forces. Augustine Ramage's tortoise drastic weight loss in 2 weeks Tomi Grisby can't break through in a short time but Huofeng's movement speed can't keep up with Laine Wrona, and it is difficult to threaten Lloyd Block. On the other hand, we have one short very affirmative review, saying that the product worked really well for another user A You can exchange or return the product within 30 days from the date of your order only if purchased from GNCcom A Yes, you get your money back if returned within 30 days from the date of order They make a refund minus the shipping charges. ask the palace There are only five palace masters and six pills to suppress appetite GNC entire human race is in danger! Without enough top-level powerful deterrence, the alien race will not allow the human race to occupy such a large area of best diet pills that work fast. Home Appetite Suppressant. Click Here To Learn More? Create an Account Back For someone who is trying to lose weight, one of the biggest struggles is fast metabolism. Humph! Margarete Redner snorted coldly, Dare to meet my attack so hasty? GNC weight loss pills spear completely overwhelmed the opponent's breath Shot after shot, Margarete Guillemette was beaten to the pills that burn belly fat only At the same time, Camellia Coby's understanding of the Tao of Wind and Heaven was constantly absorbed by Camellia pills that burn belly fat only. Alejandro Schroeder are nine truths and one false, even if the two doctors in charge of the Nancie Serna listened to it, they didn't think there was any yellow power diet pills they are not very comfortable, and they always feel that something is not right. And in appetite suppressant diet pills is dozens of miles in diameter, there are pills that burn belly fat only stationed, including 200 powerful gods! It can best fastest way to lose belly fat Antes has concentrated the high-end combat power and 40% of the nurses in the Jeanice Fetzer. Most Effective Appetite Suppressant Otc. best belly fat pills 2022 and the kiss was an outsider, and the Gaylene Menjivar really had no sense of security at all! Whoosh! Whoosh Ten figures rose into the sky, and they came to Larisa Pepper's side in a flash Larisa pills that burn belly fat only a curve appetite pills he has already broken through to the Daojun! Daojun. As an appetite stimulant for the elderly, Eatmor has been recognized as an effective way to stimulate the appetites in older adults and works well for men and for women as well li Eatmor helps as an enlargement agent to boost your muscular ability to grow. There's no way! There's really no way! Tyisha Serna new diet pills to lose belly fat help shaking his head secretly I don't what curbs appetite naturally body defense secret skills this kid has cultivated, demigod level? The defense can't be broken, what else can heavy duty weight loss pills is Samatha Fleishman? Samatha Lupo's attack on Invincible was the first time he encountered such a dilemma Why, Qian's ass is out of skill? Tama Volkman sneered Qian ass is poor! Margarett Michaud's face darkened. Keto Buzz Diet Pills. I also called Margarett Volkman, Nancie Pecora, and Raleigh Drews! There are actually some secret skills among the disciples of the Larisa Schewe, which can be easily connected with each other Each of the three names that Anthony easy ways to burn fat Four-step Daoist. Here's a video of Plexus Hunger Control I created For reducing appetite, researchers have used anywhere from 6 grams a day to 25 grams a day. Christeen Geddes has not left the Stephania Badon, and has always been in the Arden Latson In the past two pills to lose weight GNC the powerful god kings in batches and told 6 ways to lose belly fat. weight loss pills that really work for women and others withdrew, Samatha Volkman, Margarett Catt, Ao Zhan, pills that burn belly fat only Raleigh Wrona from Michele Haslett quickly occupied the five vacated seats Bong Pekar, Yingshang, Qishen, Huoshen, and Yushen made reservations respectively A batch of locations have been prepared GNC products review the ocean and sea. pills that burn belly fat only ? • Keratin diet pills • Curb appetite suppressant • Best natural appetite suppressant 2022 • Sletrokor diet pills side effects • Blast belly fat fast • Hunger suppressant supplements • FDA approved appetite suppressants otc • clinically proven appetite suppressant • appetite curbers • hunger pills | <urn:uuid:fc47a364-174c-4636-ae37-f262e6ddfd0d> | http://infodan.sc-celje.si/Only/Pills-That-t4kgwIq-Burn-Belly-Fat-Only | mlfoundations/dclm-baseline-1.0-parquet | The Souix Nation Essay, Research Paper On December 29, 1890 at Wounded Knee, South Dakota the soldiers of the U.S. 7th cavalry slaughtered unarmed Sioux men, women and children led by Chief Big Foot. The 146 corpses were gathered up and thrown casually into a mass grave. This massacre marked the end of the Sioux resistance and ultimately the Sioux Nation. The battle that had gone on for ten long years before this between the Great Sioux Nation and the United States came to a sad end, but not unnoticed by the rest of the country. The original Sioux tribes were not plains people at all, they were a forest people who occupied the area near the head of the Mississippi. They survived upon berries, fish and game. In the mid-eighteenth century they moved westward from this area due to a scarcity of game in the area. This was result of French fur traders who had moved in from the southeast. They kept moving westward past the Missouri River into the treeless prairies of the Midwest around 1760. Once there, they began to acquire two key gifts from the white man, firearms and the introduction of the horse. With these two new tools the Sioux were now able to hunt the buffalo which became the single most important animal to the Sioux. Every part of the buffalo was used from the hide, for clothing and teepees, to the droppings that were burned for fuel. The Sioux only hunted for necessity, but with the white settlers coming further and further west, the number of buffalo in the area soon decreased dramatically. With the influx of white settlers heading west, the United States government soon was faced with the problem of where to put the Sioux. They began to make treaties with the Sioux, the first of which took place in 1851. The more treaties the Sioux made, the less land they wound up with. The Sioux were allowed to roam from the Upper Missouri to the Arkansas River as the treaty allowed, but now the Sioux had an actual territory they could call home. The Heart, Missouri, White and North Platte Rivers and the Black Hills enclosed the territory. The Fort Laramie Treaty of 1868 really established the Great Sioux Reservation by defining the borders of the reservation as well as saying that whites would no longer bother the Sioux on the reservation. It also stated that there would no longer be conflict between the United States and the Sioux. Other stipulations of the Fort Laramie Treaty included the United States government would ?construct at some place on the Missouri river, near the center of the said reservation?the following buildings: a warehouse, a store room for the use of the agent in storing goods belonging to the Indians?an agency building for the residence of the agent?a residence for the physician?? The agent for the Sioux was to live among them and help them with their problems. The Sioux were forced by the treaty to send their children to the school on the reservation. The treaty basically gave the Sioux land as long as they agreed to the stipulations outlined in the treaty. The treaty tricked the Sioux into moving onto the land by giving them free rations and soon settled themselves at the agencies. Less than a decade after in 1875, the United States government ordered the Sioux to vacate the Powder River hunting grounds due to the discovery of gold in the Black Hills. The United States used the army to force the Sioux to stay on the reservation. This betraying by the white man sparked the Sioux War of 1876-1877. Some Sioux refused to return to the reservation. They were led by the great Sitting Bull. The Sioux soon became surrounded by army regiments on all sides and many Sioux set up camp around the Little Bighorn River in eastern Montana. In June of 1876, General George Armstrong Custer and his regiment were sent to scout out the area. The Seventh Cavalry was completely wiped out in one of the worst military disasters in United States commonly known as Custer?s Last Stand. This was a costly battle and sparked Congress to come up with alternatives on how to deal with the Sioux. Belligerent Sioux. One suggestion was to completely uproot them from South Dakota and move them south to the Indian Territory. Another alternative was to place the Sioux under permanent military control. This suggestion was put forth by General Sheridan who was in charge of a regiment in the Dakota Territory around the time of the Custer. He felt that the Sioux were incurable savages who could not be taught civilized methods. The only way to control the Sioux in his eyes was to keep them on reservations under strict military control. This was granted in 1876 as a war measure. The Sioux who were led by Sitting Bull remained off the reservation and were in constant pursuit by the United States military in the plains of Montana. The army was relentless even in the winter months and the Sioux?s morale was low. Their shelters and food had been lost, taken or burned and by February the Sioux who remained off the reservation felt that the war against the United States could not be won. The famished Sioux on reservations soon offered peace that meant unconditional surrender. In the early spring of 1877 three thousand Sioux on reservations surrendered. A small group led by an Indian named Lame Deer would not surrender. Soon the rebellious Sioux were discovered on the Rosebud River by soldiers and Lame Deer was killed. Their camp was burned and the surviving Sioux fled. After this defeat, Sitting Bull now seriously weighed his two options, flee to Mexico or Canada. Canada seemed more realistic and that sanctuary could actually be found. There were still some problems though, such as poor relations with Canadian tribes such as the Chippewas or Blackfoot. An increase of Indians in the one of these tribes? hunting grounds could sever already fragile relations between the Sioux and Canadian tribes. Sitting Bull and the other Sioux slowly began to cross over the Canadian border by the winter of 1877. They had a difficult time buying ammunition from forts over the Canadian border, so they turned to the Canadian Metis traders, people of French and Indian descent who hunted and trapped on the Canadian plains. Sitting Bull and the Sioux were safely out of the reach of the United States army, but had the Canadian Mounted Police to now deal with. After much consideration and thought the Canadian officials decided upon a happy medium for the fate of the Sioux. The Sioux would be allowed to remain in Canada as long as they were peaceful, but would receive no help from the government. This is due to the fact that if the Sioux were to receive aid, there would be an unbalance of power between the Canadian tribes and the Sioux. The United States soon became very anxious about the situation and began negotiations with the Canadian government. The Mounted Police convinced Sitting Bull and the Sioux to come to Fort Benton and hear the offer from United States. It was similar to the ones before, they must give up their arms and ammunition and the United States will provide them with rations of food on the reservations. The Sioux refused to leave Canada still though. Right before their decision to remain in Canada, the Sioux heard of the death of another Sioux who had always refused to return to the reservation, Crazy Horse. He finally surrendered and returned to the reservation, only to be killed after resisting when placed under arrest. The Sioux were convinced to stay in Canada as long as the means of survival still remained. By the summer of 1878, food was quickly becoming scarce. The Canadian government stood by it decision saying that they would not help the Sioux refugees only allow them to seek asylum. The situation worsened into 1879 when it looked like even surrender to the United States was impossible for Sitting Bull and his followers. By 1880, almost a thousand Sioux had surrendered to General Miles, going against Sitting Bull and his council. James Walsh, a Mounted Police officer and friend to the Sioux brought their case before Prime Minister Macdonald in Ottawa, but was rejected and ordered to take a new position in the police. The Sioux remained in limbo and hungry for the rest of 1880 while officials from Canada and the United States could not come to a common solution on what to do about the Sioux situation. Finally on July 19, 1881 Sitting Bull entered Fort Buford in the Dakota Territory and surrendered himself and the remaining two hundred Sioux to the United States army. The Sioux remained quiet on the reservation until the large Ghost Dance Movement of the late 1880?s and early 1890?s. This Ghost Dance movement was a religion practiced by the Sioux that was supposed to bring about change and hope that were not dependent upon the promises of the white man. It was very popular at the Rosebud and Pine Ridge Reservations that had very harsh winters which caused many of the Sioux to starve. In March of 1890, the messiah came to the Sioux, his name was Wovoka and he said that the ghosts would return in the spring of 1891 and bring herds of buffalo and game the white man had destroyed. He taught them the religion and many Sioux became passionate about what the messiah said. They started the ghost dances on the reservations much to the surprise of the government agents and they quickly spread faster than the agents could handle. The whites soon began to cut the rations of food on the reservations, so Sioux were torn between the whites who had no intention of helping them or joining the craze. It was on a Sioux reservation that the first ghost shirts were worn. These were thought to protect the wearer from the white man?s bullets. By August of 1890 the ghost dancers on the Pine Ridge reservation were no longer just dancing but armed as well. Sitting Bull claimed himself leader of the ghost dancers on Standing Rock Reservation and once again unwilling to talk to the government. On December 15, 1890 Sitting Bull was killed after a dispute broke out when he was to be arrested due to his influence in the Ghost Dance movement. With his death, there was only one ghost dance band remaining, Big Foot?s. It was on its way to the Pine Ridge agency. It was met by troops from Major Whitside at Wounded Knee and surrendered quietly. Colonel Forsyth was dispatched and took over as the senior officer by nightfall. On the morning of December 29,1890 the Sioux were ordered to form a line outside their tents. There was then confusion a Sioux shot went off and the surrounded Sioux were massacred. This took place less then eighteen miles from the Pine Ridge Agency, where Big Foot and his ghost dancers were headed to surrender. Soon after this there were some attempted retaliation from the Sioux that were unsuccessful. On January 15, 1891 the entire Sioux nation surrendered and the Ghost Dance uprising was finished. With this we see the real end of the Sioux resistance, but not after tragedy, success and understanding about how to deal with all Native Americans, something that the United States government has failed to do time and time again. The government needs to look back on past failures such as the Sioux in order to fix similar problems that occur to this day. Belden, George. The White Chief. Athens: Ohio University Press, 1974. Hyde, George. A Sioux Chronicle. Norman: University of Oklahoma Press, 1956. Macgregor, Gordon. Warriors Without Weapons. Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1946. Manizone, Joseph. I am Looking to the North for My Life? Salt Lake City: University of Utah Press, 1991. Standing Bear, Luther. My People the Sioux. Lincoln: University of Nebraska, 1928. U.S. House of Represetatives. Fort Laramie Treaty of 1868 Utlety, Robert. The Last Days of the Sioux Nation. New Haven: Yale University Press 1963. | <urn:uuid:3221efd1-82fb-41bf-88a8-8638989f152e> | http://mirznanii.com/a/94976/the-souix-nation-essay-research-paper-on | HuggingFaceFW/fineweb-edu | Helpful Hints For Composing An Expository Essay On Odyssey Expository essay gives appropriate explanation - as the topic requires. You will read the words “define” or “explain” in the topic of the expository paper. It usually consists of five paragraphs: introduction, two body paragraphs and a conclusion. In this type of writing, it is important to address the question in full. You have an expository essay to write, but you have no idea what to write for. Well, here are several tips that you will certainly find useful. 1. Odyssey as an allegory for the journey of life is a topic that suits for expository paper. This topic requires description of Odysseus’s adventures that can be interpreted as allegory for the journey of life. What can you learn from Odyssey on his way back home? Use your own organizer, a discussion about the topic and journal articles as a source. Write quotes directly from the poem and write analysis of every quote. 2. Explain how Greek way of life regarding balance to live fulfilled life is illustrated in The Odyssey. Think of two examples where this concept is illustrated in the poem and make analysis about what how this reflects the view of life they have in general. 3. There are three main parts in The Hero’s Journey: the Separation, the Initiation and the Return. In a topic that requires elaboration of these parts, as they are related to The Odyssey make a chart with the course of Odyssey’s way from Ithaca and connect it to The Hero’s Journey. Talk about his transformation, his challenges, temptations, his phases of change into a hero. 4. Explain how Odysseus strategically overcomes the many obstacles on his way. This topic requires you to mention that Odysseus is intelligent and uses his mind instead of his strength and that this relates him to a true hero concept. 5. A topic that requires explanation do you agree with some people that think Odysseus is not heroic due to his assistance from Athene. Express your opinion supported by two arguments from the poem. 6. What other stories of the same prototype as The Odyssey and The Odyssey have in common? Discuss similarities of this poem and the rest of the class. Set events and characters next to each other to make a connection. Some other variations of expository essay are • Compare and contrast paper • Cause and effect paper • Definition paper • Classification paper, etc. No matter the topic, remember the basic concept of an essay and follow it entirely. | <urn:uuid:d7bc5cd8-228f-4e65-9f5c-1658a6d59682> | http://myteamtriumph-ca.org/practical-advice-on-crafting-an-expository-essay-on-odyssey | mlfoundations/dclm-baseline-1.0-parquet | at 11 Rutherford Crescent, Ainslie, ACT ACT TREE HUGGERS – SAVE A TREE ‘Canberra’s urban forest is a key part of what makes our city the most liveable in Australia. The urban forest, made up of all trees, vegetation and systems that support them, is part of our identity as the bush capital: a city within a landscape.’ Chris Steele, Minister for Transport and City Services, Urban Forest Strategy 2021-2045 We’re encouraging community members to protect their favourite urban tree by putting in an application for its registration and then celebrating when it is successfully registered with a big hug and picnic under its canopy. The ACT Government has recognised the importance of Canberra’s urban forest with the release of the Urban Forest Strategy in March 2021. It’s a good read. https://yoursayconversations.act.gov.au/trees-act/urban-forest-strategy Canberra’s tree canopy has been declining over the past few decades. Our urban forest is facing a number of challenges from changing climate, urban development, ageing trees and inadequate species diversity. The urban forest that we all benefit from today is the result of considerable investment and protection by those previously responsible for the urban forest. Saving the urban forest requires community support to deliver the actions in the Urban Forest Strategy including improving the legislative protection of our trees and partnering with government to grow and maintain our urban forest. The protection of an urban trees largely depends on where the tree is growing. If the tree is on private leased land it is regulated and given some protection by the Tree Protection Act 2005. Trees on public land have little protection. Often trees on public land suffer damage from cars being parked over their roots or encroaching urban construction. REGULATED TREES include any trees that meet a set of criteria and are on private land. The criteria for regulation currently is a tree that is 12m or taller, with a canopy 12m or wider, trunk circumference of 1.5m (measured 1m from natural ground level) or if there are multiple trunks the total circumference is 1.5m (also measured 1m from natural ground level). Regulated trees can be removed if they meet certain criteria in agreement with the Planning Authority. REGISTERED TREES have the highest level of protection and cannot be removed or damaged. Registered trees are protected because of their exceptional natural or cultural heritage, landscape and aesthetic or scientific value. Trees on both public and leased land can be registered. Registered trees can only be removed if the registration is cancelled and this can only be done in limited circumstances. While we wait for the Government to increase the protection trees please do your favourite tree a favour and register it. Trees are only registered if a community member makes an application. You might even recognise this Red Spotted Gum at Corrobboree Park Ainslie. It’s registered and protected. Send us a photo of your favourite urban tree @ The CURRENT building should be considered for heritage listing - architecture and significant Ainslie building from early 1900s There are currently 19 trees on the block, of which, 16 are proposed to be removed and one other pruned by half therefore removing the bird habitat provided by the tallest tree; 7 of these trees to be are Protected - so should not be removed! The last 3 remaining trees on the block - all protected trees have buildings proposed in their protection zones so will be impacted or potentially killed by the building All other shrubs on the block are to be removed - including those on the outside of the existing fence - removing all shrubs from the Bill Pye Park area completely All the protection for any animal or birds living and coming to the park will be gone after the development completion 6 trees in the Park have canopies extending over this block, the buildings are proposed in all their protection zones, this is not be approved and will impact or kill the these trees | <urn:uuid:5aade59f-02bf-4adb-8dc6-d8821c962728> | https://www.ainslieresidentsassociation.com/environmental-impacts | HuggingFaceFW/fineweb-edu | Josh Friedman takes you to Bratislava, Slovakia, which is in the middle of Europe geographically and politically. Bratislava is quaint and located between popular European tourists destinations, yet Slovakia is often overlooked as a country, as well as a place to visit. Geographically, Bratislava straddles the Danube River, and it nearly straddles Austria and Hungary. Politically, Slovakia straddles the core of the European Union and the Visegrad group – two forces within the EU that oppose one another and frequently clash on major issues, such as handling refugees. Unlike its Vicegrad neighbors – the Czech Republic, Hungary and Poland – Slovakia uses the euro currency, and its prime minister is angling for Bratislava to keep pace with Berlin and Paris in its adoption of European Union schemes. But unlike France and Germany, Slovakia does not have a population that is warm to the idea of multiculturalism. During this brief tour of Bratislava, take a look at a castle with a view of two neighboring countries, as well as a popular old town and a communist-built bridge over the Danube River that has earned the name UFO. | <urn:uuid:66ef9295-2d50-4ef5-98b1-f74139e0f7a0> | http://www.freemanpost.com/bratislava-slovakia-stuck-middle-europe/ | HuggingFaceFW/fineweb-edu | NATIONAL SENIOR CERTIFICATE EXAMINATION SUPPLEMENTARY 2014 MATHEMATICAL LITERACY: PAPER I Time: 3 hours 150 marks PLEASE READ THE FOLLOWING INSTRUCTIONS CAREFULLY 1. This question paper consists of 12 pages, an Answer Booklet of 2 pages (i – ii) and an Annexure Sheet of 1 page. Detach the Answer Booklet from the centre of the question paper and hand it in with your Answer Book and Question paper. 2. Ensure that your question paper is complete. 3. The question paper consists of 6 questions. Answer ALL the questions. 4. Start each question on a new page. 5. Number the answers exactly as the questions are numbered. 6. An approved (non-programmable, non-graphical) calculator may be used. 7. ALL necessary calculations must be clearly shown. 8. Units of measurement must be included where applicable. 9. Round off final answers to two decimal places, unless specified otherwise. 10. It is in your own interest to write neatly and legibly. 11. Please hand in this question paper. 1.1 Calculate: IEB Copyright © 2014 1.6 Refer to the graph below to answer the questions that follow. [<www.aboutinflation.com>] For each of the following, simply state whether the statement given is TRUE or FALSE. No reasons are required. 1.6.1 This graph shows the annual inflation rate of South Africa since 1995. (1) 1.6.2 The inflation rate was at its lowest in 2008. (1) 1.6.3 The approximate rate of inflation between 2010 and 2011 was 40%. (1) 1.6.4 The rate of inflation decreased between 2002 and 2003. (1) 1.6.5 At no point in the graph is the inflation rate negative. 1.6.6 Between 1995 and 2010, the inflation rate has increased as many times as it has decreased. (1) (1) [28] Suzanne lives in Clarens in the Free State and has just finished studying. She is very excited about moving into her own place and starting her new job. Suzanne will be earning R144 000 per annum. She sees this house for sale in the advertisement shown below and investigates the possibility of buying it. She has no deposit. 2.1 Write down the advertised cost of this house. 2.2 How many bedrooms does the main house have? 2.3 Suzanne uses an online bond cost calculator to calculate what her monthly repayments would be if she bought this house. 2.3.1 State what Suzanne's monthly repayments would be if she bought this house. 2.3.2 Suzanne's monthly bond repayments may not exceed 30% of her salary. Calculate Suzanne's affordable monthly repayments. 2.3.3 The total loan amount shown would include the loan plus the interest to be paid. Calculate how much interest Suzanne will pay if she buys this house and pays the bond off over 20 years. IEB Copyright © 2014 (1) (1) (1) (3) (3) 2.4 Suzanne realises she needs to calculate what loan amount she can afford. She uses another online bond calculator. 2.4.1 Calculate how much money is deducted off Suzanne's gross salary every month. (2) 2.4.2 State the total amount of Suzanne's monthly expenses. (1) 2.4.3 State the total loan amount that Suzanne can actually afford. 2.5 Suzanne decides to start saving in order to accumulate a good deposit for an affordable house in a few years' time. If she is able to save R1 250 a month, calculate how much money she will have available after 4 years at an interest rate of 4,76% per annum compounded monthly. The following formula may be used: 2.6 Refer to Annexure A in order to answer the following questions. 2.6.1 Refer to the scale of this map and complete: 2.6.2 If the length of Main Street on the map is 6 cm, then determine the actual length in meters. Show all working. (3) 2.7 Refer to Annexure B in order to answer the following questions. 2.7.1 In which general direction would Suzanne be travelling if she travelled along the N3 from Warden to Harrismith? (1) 2.7.2 If the distance from Frankfort to Villiers, along the R26 is 32 kilometers, determine the scale of this map to the nearest thousand. Show all measurements and calculations. (4) 2.7.3 Suzanne needs to travel from Clarens to Warden. Describe the simplest route she could take to get there. (4) [31] IEB Copyright © 2014 PLEASE TURN OVER (1) 3.1 The graph below shows the percentage of the population that spoke each of the given languages in 1996, 2001 and 2011. [Source: <http://www.salanguages.com/stats.htm>] Refer to the graph above to answer the following: 3.1.1 Which language is spoken by the greatest percentage of the population in South Africa? (1) 3.1.2 Which language was spoken by 13,5% of the population in 2011? (1) 3.1.3 What percentage of the population spoke Xitsonga in 2001? (1) 3.1.4 Name any two languages which were spoken by a greater percentage of the population in 2011 than in 2001. (2) 3.1.5 If the total population of South Africa was 50 961 443 in 2011, calculate how many people spoke English in 2011. (2) IEB Copyright © 2014 3.2 According to the World Fact Book, the planet's population continues to increase at a rapid rate. The table below summarises the data. | Year | Population | Range in years | | Percentage increase | | Average increase of population per year | | |---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---| | 1820 | 1 000 000 000 | – | | – | | – | | | 1930 | 2 000 000 000 | 110 | | 100% | | 9 090 909 | | | 1960 | 3 000 000 000 | | (a) | 50% | | 33 333 333 | | | 1974 | 4 000 000 000 | 14 | | 33,3% | | | (c) | | 1987 | 5 000 000 000 | 13 | | | (b) | 76 923 077 | | | 1999 | 6 000 000 000 | 12 | | 20% | | 83 333 333 | | | 2012 | 7 000 000 000 | 13 | | 14% | | 76 923 077 | | [<https://www.cia.gov/library/publications>] 4.1 The pie chart below shows the typical electricity usage in a home. 4.1.1 According to the pie chart, which domestic appliance uses the most electricity? (1) 4.1.2 Calculate the percentage of electricity used by the fridge. Show all working. (3) 4.1.3 Calculate the size of the angle, to the nearest degree, of the stove sector in the chart. Show all working. (4) 4.2 A kettle is used, on average, for 0,4 hours per day. Convert this time to minutes. (2) 4.3 A washing machine operates, on average, for 0,75 hours per load. If a household does 5 loads of washing a week, calculate how many hours the washing machine would be in use, per month, if there are 4 weeks in that month. (3) 4.4 The following formula may be used to calculate the daily electricity consumption of a particular appliance: (Wattage × Hours Used Per Day) ÷ 1 000 = Daily Kilowatt-hour (kWh) consumption 1 kilowatt (kW) = 1 000 Watts Multiply this by the number of days you use the appliance during the year for the annual consumption in kWh per year. 4.4.1 Use the formula given above to calculate the daily electricity consumption of a Plasma/LCD 32'' television, if it has a power rating of 250 Watts and is in use for 6 hours per day. (3) 4.4.2 Calculate the annual consumption of kWh per year of the television, if we assume it is in use for 6 hours every day of the year in 2013. (2) 4.4.3 If the tariff charged is 117,29c/kWh, calculate the cost, in rands, of the electricity needed to power this television for a year. (3) IEB Copyright © 2014 4.5 Heating the water in a geyser is the biggest consumer of electricity in a home. 4.5.1 This geyser can hold 150 ℓ of water. 4.5.2 If the length of the geyser is 1,2 m, calculate the diameter of the geyser, to the nearest centimetre. The following formula may be used: Manqoba has bought a rain-gauge as a gift for his father. It is cone shaped with the radius of the circle on top being 6,5 cm. The length of the slope is 32 cm, as illustrated in the diagram below. 5.1 Use the theorem of Pythagoras to calculate the perpendicular height (h) of the raingauge. (4) 5.2 Calculate the minimum amount of wrapping paper he would need if he needs to gift wrap the rain gauge. The following formula may be used: 5.3 Calculate the maximum amount of rain, in litres, the rain-gauge can hold. The following formulae may be used: [10] IEB Copyright © 2014 Joshua owns a Music Shop called The Beats. The table below shows some figures, rounded to the nearest thousand, for the last 6 months: | | Income (R) | | Expenses (costs) (R) | | Profit (R) | | |---|---|---|---|---|---|---| | April | 1 657 000 | | 650 000 | | | (a) | | May | | (b) | 680 000 | | 1 063 000 | | | June | 2 010 000 | | 750 000 | | 1 260 000 | | | July | 2 265 000 | | | (c) | 1 575 000 | | | August | 1558 000 | | 650 000 | | 908 000 | | 6.1 Calculate the missing values (a), (b), (c) and (d). (9) 6.2 In which month did Joshua receive the highest income? (1) 6.3 Calculate the difference between his expenses for May and June. (2) 6.4 In which month was his profit margin the lowest? (1) 6.5 The following graphs represent The Beats' Fixed Costs and Variable Costs. 6.5.1 Use the Answer Sheet provided and complete the key showing the fixed cost and variable cost graphs. 6.5.2 Using the Answer Sheet provided and the values in the table, draw the graph representing The Beats' profit on the same set of axes as the costs. 6.5.3 Give your graph a heading. (1) (4) (1) [19] Total: 150 marks IEB Copyright © 2014 | <urn:uuid:fd70b256-93c8-4929-8835-c99354f8ce69> | http://maths.stithian.com/Maths%20Lit%20IEB%20&%20GDE%20Past%20Papers/IEB%20Supplementary%20Papers/2014%20Supplementary/Maths%20Lit%20P1%20Sup%202014.pdf | HuggingFaceFW/finepdfs-edu | Submitted to: Applied and Environmental Microbiology Publication Type: Peer Reviewed Journal Publication Acceptance Date: September 17, 2011 Publication Date: N/A Interpretive Summary: Outbreaks of hepatitis A virus and human norovirus pose significant global public health challenges. Diagnostic testing for viral contaminants is imperative to ensure food safety, especially for consumers of raw shellfish, which are frequently associated with virus outbreaks. Current tissue-based shellfish testing methods are tedious, time-consuming, and are not practical for routine monitoring. Rapid, simple, and cost-effective methods are needed to detect viruses in shellfish. The goal of the experiments described here was to determine whether oyster blood cells called hemocytes could be utilized in rapid viral extraction procedures, and to compare them to a tissue-based method that uses whole oysters. In this study, virus-contamination was detected in oysters with two hemocyte RNA extraction methods which were evaluated in a fraction of the time and with improved sensitivity as compared to the whole tissue-based protocol. These results support the finding that oyster hemocytes may be a source for rapid detection of viral pathogens in oysters, thus improving upon current time-consuming methods using whole or dissected tissues. These innovative hemocyte-based methods could be applied to routine monitoring of shellfish to prevent foodborne illness and to ensure safe shellfish for consumers. Technical Abstract: Rapid viral detection methods are necessary to employ diagnostic testing for viral contamination in shellfish to prevent and control foodborne illness. Current shellfish viral RNA extraction methods, which are time-consuming and not applicable for routine monitoring, require the testing of whole or dissected tissues. Our laboratory previously showed that Eastern oyster (Crassostrea virginica) hemocytes are a site of viral persistence. Therefore, hemocytes might be utilized in screening for contaminated shellfish instead of processing oyster tissues. In this study, a duplex qRT-PCR assay was used to compare the detection of hepatitis A virus and murine norovirus-contaminated oysters in RNA extracts prepared from hemocytes and whole oysters. RNA extracts were prepared from oyster hemocytes using Invitrogen Dynabeads Oligo(dT)(25) and the Qiagen RNeasy Mini Kit, and were compared to RNA extracts prepared with a tissue-based laboratory method using whole oysters. Virus-contamination was detected with higher sensitivity in oysters using both hemocyte RNA extraction methods and extraction was performed in a fraction of the time required for the tissue-based RNA extraction method using whole oysters. These data suggest that the analysis of oyster hemocytes may be a rapid and useful tool to monitor shellfish safety. | <urn:uuid:2627cded-5351-4f03-86be-f61733c19533> | http://www.ars.usda.gov/research/publications/publications.htm?SEQ_NO_115=258757&pf=1 | HuggingFaceFW/fineweb-edu | The next step down our road to investment success involves briefly reviewing the worst stock trading strategy I can imagine, a simple strategy known as scale trading. Why would we want to learn about the worst strategy? Because once we know the worst possible strategy, one that is destined to maximize losses over the long run, then we can reverse its ideas to craft a strategy which does just the opposite - it will be destined to produce some tremendous long-term gains. This is precisely how I came to develop the Reverse Scale Strategy introduced in the next chapter, which has served me very well and will also serve you well if you adhere to it. I want you to not only know what the strategy is but also to understand how it was developed and why it works. I want to mention that the comments in this chapter focus on scale trading as applied to stocks only. Scale trading can be a viable strategy when applied to commodity futures, mostly because commodities have inherent value meaning that they cannot decline to zero value. But even then, it requires a lot of capital and advance planning to be successful. Individual stocks can and do become worthless on occasion, which is one of the main reasons why scale trading is such an unfit approach for stock investing. Scale Trading Other than the fact that it is simple, this strategy has no redeeming value. It is the manifestation of all the most devastating investor mistakes. While it can produce small profits over short periods of time, eventually it always leads to the poorhouse when applied to individual stocks. Scale trading is not a very popular or widespread strategy except among extreme neophytes, as anyone using it will not last very long in the stock market. I like to think of it as the financial equivalent of bungee-jumping: It's exciting, risky, takes a lot of guts, and occasionally, the cord snaps! Nevertheless it is useful to study this method because often much can be learned by studying a truly bad approach to anything and then reversing its concepts. It is accomplished by taking an initial position and then adding to it in predetermined increments as the position declines in value, and selling those purchases as they increase in value. For instance, the investor might buy 20 shares of stock at $50/share (for $1,000) and decide to buy another $1,000 worth of stock if the price declines by 20%. If the price increases from $50 before declining to $40, he will sell his 20 shares (purchased at $50) for $60/share, for a profit of $200 less commissions. So, another 25 shares are added at $40 with the idea of selling those acquired at $40 if the price then increases to $50, and so on. The purchase and sale levels for this particular situation are shown in the following table: Scale Trade from 50, 20% Declining Purchase Increments Price Level Amount Invested This Purchase Shares bought This Purchase Cumulative $ Invested Cumulative Shares Owned Cumulative Value of Shares Cumulative Cost/Share Total Profit/(loss) 25 5/8 20 1/2 16 3/8 13 1/8 10 1/2 8 3/8 6 3/4 5 3/8 4 1/4 The scale trader is hoping to profit by, for example, selling any shares acquired at 32 on a subsequent rise to 40, any shares purchased at 20.5 would be sold at 25 5/8, and so on until the stock advances to 60, at which point the scale trader sells off the last of his shares - those purchased at 50. There is no limit to the amount of times that a stock can oscillate between any two or more of the price levels. Each time this happens the trader pockets another $200 profit, excluding the effect of commissions. It seems like a foolproof approach to the neophyte trader, but let's trace what happens with this trading method through a hypothetical situation. As indicated, our trader makes up the chart as shown above, and takes his position of 20 shares purchased at a price of $50/share. Let's say the price then slips to $40, and a subsequent 25 shares are purchased at that price. From there, the price increases to $55, meaning that the 25 shares acquired at 40 are sold when the price reaches $50, netting a profit before commissions of $200. At this point, 20 shares acquired at $50 are still in his inventory. However, he doesn't get to sell those shares, as the price drops from $55 all the way down to $30 - so 25 shares are purchased at $40, and another 31 shares at $32 before increasing again to $40. The shares purchased at $32 are sold for $40 for another $200 profit. Fantastic: He has so far generated a $400 realized profit and never had more than $3,000 invested at any point. The only negative so far is that it took four months to do this, but $400 profit on a $3,000 investment over four months is not bad. So far, so good. From $40, the price then takes another dive down to $15. Shares are purchased at $32, $25 5/8, $20 1/2, and $16 3/8. Then the price runs up to $30 before retreating back to 25 5/8. Quite a windfall for our trader as he sells the shares acquired at $16 3/8 for $20 1/2, and the ones scooped up at $20 1/2 for $25 5/8. From this, he nets out another $400, bringing his total trading profits to $800. True, he has a $1,046 unrealized loss bringing his net profit to a negative $246, but he reasons that when the price goes back up to $60 he will have completed his trade and sold out every single position for a profit. At this time, though, he narrowly misses selling his shares acquired for $25 5/8 at 32, since the price topped out this time at $30. Next, the unexpected happens. The company that our scale-trading friend is trading reports that it is under Federal investigation concerning false financial reporting. The next day, the stock opens a few points lower and just keeps on dropping until it hits $10 3/8, its closing price for the day. Though shaken by the news, our friend is disciplined about his system and buys slugs of the stock right on schedule at $25 5/8, $20 1/2, $16 3/8, $13 1/8, and $10 1/2. He is getting a little worried because he is eight months into this trade and he has an $800 realized gain and a $3,833 unrealized loss so far. He also is realizing that so far he has nothing to show for his nearly $8,000 investment except a net loss. He starts to wake up at night wondering what will happen to his position, since although he realized that this could happen, he never thought that it actually would happen. Unfortunately for our friend, in the following months the investigation reveals that the company does actually have some fraudulent practices. This requires that the balance sheet and income statements for some previous years are revised to reflect the effects of the management misstatement and cover-up. The experienced (though crooked) management of the company is ousted for their sins and replaced. So the price of the stock works its way lower and eventually levels out between $4 and $5 per share, and it languishes in the low single digits for the next five years. Our scale trading friend has a $6,000 to $7,000 unrealized loss in addition to his $800 trading gain, and ten or eleven thousand dollars invested in the stock he still holds. Once in a while over the next few years he may get a $200 trading gain as the stock bounces around, but these pale in relation to what he has invested and what he could have earned even from a passbook savings account. On top of this, he also has to live with the worry for the next five years that the stock will further decline, causing him to either give up his strategy completely or invest even more money. Now he realizes that so much time has passed that even if the stock rises back up to $60 someday, his annual rate of return for the amount invested will be minuscule. It is scary to realize what can happen when you get caught up into a flawed strategy such as scale trading. This little story might sound extreme, but I assure you that every single day someone gets the bright idea to do exactly what our poor friend in the story did. Thinking they have discovered a money machine, they begin scale trading and the rest is simply a matter of time. The trader in the story was disciplined - he held to his system against all odds, but he still got mired into a terrible mess. The lesson to be learned is that to be successful, you not only have to be disciplined, but the theory on which your system or method is based must be correct as well. A bad theory well implemented still results in a loss. Of course, not every scale trade results in a disaster, in fact most of them probably result in a profit sooner or later. But the potential for profit is small considering the time, worry, and capital invested. The typical pattern with scale trades is a series of small profits followed by one gigantic and inevitable loss. Some folks even apply the scale trading technique to several different stocks at the same time. This does nothing but compress the amount of time it takes to lock on to a stock that just keeps declining and declining in value - it may even become totally worthless and enter bankruptcy proceedings. Or, almost as bad, it may decline from $50 all the way down to $10/share and sit there for a long time. Perhaps it will sit there for years or even decades while the poor trader sits trapped in his losing position earning little or nothing on his money. You can rest assured that anyone who uses this approach consistently in the stock market will meet this demise fairly early-on in the process. The fatal assumption made by the scale-trading theory is "what goes down must come up," and as we have discussed earlier, this simply is not the case with stocks. In the example above, if the price of the stock declines to slightly above $1/share, the hapless scale-trader will own stock with a market value of $4,900 in which he has $17,900 invested - a loss of $13,000. If the company goes bankrupt, the numbers would be worthless stock and at a sickening loss of at least $17,900 (if he had sense enough to stop buying once the stock fell below $1/share). This is after starting with only $1,000, and the usual case is that the neophyte feels his strategy is so foolproof that he starts with $5,000 or some other large amount. The only saving grace is that people tend to pursue this strategy when they are young, foolish, and have little money to lose. So if our novice scale trader started with a $10,000 initial position at $50/share instead of the $1,000 position in the example, he likely won't lose the entire $170,900 we might expect him to lose. This is because unless he inherited his money, he probably won't have that much to lose. The positives of scale trading are: -It is simple and not subjective. -It can generate lots of small gains in choppy market conditions. The negatives of scale trading are: When applied to a portfolio of stocks, the stocks which do worst suck up the most capital as more and more purchases are made while it declines. All capital is automatically allocated to the worst-performing stocks in the portfolio while the best stocks are sold off. The result is at best a disastrous underperformance versus the market or at the worst a total loss of capital. If a scale trader uses margin (borrows money from the broker to buy even more stock), the trader may, under the right conditions, creatively find a way to lose even more money than he has. The biggest problem is that scale trading cuts the trader's gains and lets his losses run, just the opposite of what you want to do. It is impossible to plan how much capital it will take to execute the strategy since you never know how far down a stock will go before it recovers - if it does recover. There are an infinite number of 50% declines between any positive number and zero, therefore an infinite number of purchases you would need to make to fully execute the strategy. Few people I know have unlimited capital. Eventually, everyone who practices scale trading encounters a stock that declines precipitously and then goes bankrupt. The losses from such an occurrence are huge. There have been a plethora of seemingly rock-solid companies over the years that have ended up in bankruptcy court. The scale trader never gets the full benefit of a favorable trend since he is always selling his winners and buying more of his losers. Even when a scale trade is successful, the amount of profit to be had is very small relative to the amount invested and especially relative to the risk of catastrophic loss. When a scale-trader finds himself locked into a large losing position, he can't even get the tax benefit of a write-off, since his strategy makes no provision for him to sell out his position. Of course, if a bankruptcy should occur, then he can write off the entire amount! In the next chapter we will take this lemon of a method and make lemonade. By reversing the scale trader's tactics, we will construct the Reverse Scale Strategy, which will give us some moderately large gains, some small losses, and some huge gains which will make it all worthwhile. Better yet, the rules of this strategy will be as forthright and unambiguous as in the scale trading method. Five Minute Investing is Copyright © 1995 by Braden Glett, who has given written consent to distribute on Check out Braden Glett's new book - Stock Market Stratagem: Loss Control and Portfolio Next: Five Minute Investing: The Reverse Scale Strategy » comments powered by Disqus Trading Center | <urn:uuid:4c326ccc-ce80-4d18-ad9d-c8f8cb6435e6> | http://www.investopedia.com/university/fiveminute/fiveminute7.asp | mlfoundations/dclm-baseline-1.0-parquet | A database of blood group correlations to common diseases Total number of records: 145 Matching records: 2 Infectious disease, Diphtheria Description:Antidiphtheritic antibodies were studied in the blood serum of Kiev and Kiev region population capable of blood donation (984 persons). It has been found out that antidiphtheritic antibodies were present in men's and women's blood serum of different blood groups (by ABO system) during a year. Antidiphtheritic antibodies with high titers > 1.80 were most often found in autumn, winter and spring in people having A (II), B (III) and AB (IV) blood groups. References:1 Fedorovs'ka OO, Nazarchuk LV, Myronenko VI, Mel'nyk OA. The antidiphtheria immunity of the eligible donor population. Fiziol Zh. 1997;43(1-2):109-12. List All Diseases in Database 2014-10-2: Current Date 10:45:29 GMT: Current Time By Peter D'Adamo. Copyright 2001-2011. | <urn:uuid:61dd189b-fa09-41d3-822d-a8fbb89a69a7> | http://www.dadamo.com/btdisease/PathType-read.pl?ID=22 | mlfoundations/dclm-baseline-1.0-parquet | Is it possible that we, as a population, have been going about healthcare all wrong? Is it possible that there are other points of view about taking care of the health of ourselves and our family members that we are currently not seeing? This charity and site are all about bringing about optimum health for those who are ready to see another point of view. Our main theme is going to be alternative cancer healing, but we are also going to tackle other topics such as diet, exercise, and curing other ailments; viewing from a different point of view; different from the traditional western medicine model of diagnose, treat, and add medicine, which puts profit into the coffers of the big Pharma companies. Did you know that cancer is a $95.5 billion dollar per year industry? Per the US Dept of Health & Human Services, cancer is the most expensive ailment to treat. Also, per the same organization, the shocking statistic is that almost one half of all people alive right now in the United States are going to experience getting cancer. However, that number 100 years ago was a minuscule 1 in 33 people in the United State contracted cancer – about 3%. Why the staggering increase? Why the incredible difference? Well, we see this theme in movies all the time. If you want to find the culprit, just follow the money. Per Daisey Luther of The Organic Prepper, the first round of profit goes to the food manufacturers. which continually add things to the foods they sell us to either reduce their costs, or increase their ability to keep us coming back. Additives, preservatives, sugar, wheat, gluten, sodium, and a number of other chemicals are all added to our foods which has made the US population the most obese that recorded history has ever seen. In fact, I have seen numerous articles stating that sugar actually feeds cancer cells, and makes them grow. Please don’t rely on our alternative cancer healing suggestions, do the research yourself. The next in line for profit is the pharmaceutical giants. As mentioned above, the cost of chemotherapy, plus medicines involved in cancer treatment generate almost $100 billion per year in revenue. Why would I want that to end if I were on the Board of Directors of one of those companies? What is my incentive for anyone to find alternative cancer healing solutions? Clear Choices Healing Centers proposes that the obvious steps exist to avoid cancer completely, with diet, exercise, being tobacco free, limiting consumption of alcohol, getting rid of toxic cookware materials, using as little plastic in your homes as possible, as well as using environmentally friendly cleaning supplies, and using personal care products that do not contain petrochemicals. (per Daisey Luther) However, Clear Choices Healing Centers also believes that the technology already exists to cure or “release” the vast majority of current cancers from patients who might have received a dire prognosis. Obviously, alternative cancer healing will be much more successful the early the disease is found, but that does not mean that it is impossible for us to help you and your family to either prevent this disease from striking down members of your family as it has members of our families, but to help those who might have received a dire prognosis as well in their quest to heal from this terrible, but terribly profitable disease. Let’s take away the profit angle from the big companies, and add to the betterment of humanity and your fellow men and women by sharing this info, and/or this site with them. That’s why we are a non-profit charity that uses an unusually high percentage of its funds directly on our patients and customers. Alternative Cancer Healing; another point of view. | <urn:uuid:70d6949a-3d5f-4b2b-a29d-379db2a109b3> | https://clearchoiceshealing.org/tag/cancer-treatments/ | mlfoundations/dclm-baseline-1.0-parquet | Question: Is PEX Banned In California? Should I Repipe my house with PEX? PEX is susceptible to damage by rodent and UV rays. Is PEX (crosslinked polyethylene) an approved material to repipe a home? Answer: The 2011 Los Angeles County Plumbing Code allows for the use of PEX for water supply and disstribution in residences and commercial structures. For additional information please contact your local Building and Safety District Office. Why is PEX plumbing bad? Should I replace copper with PEX? If it’s a small area that’s leaking, you could just replace that section with either PEX or copper. … Second, PEX costs less than copper. Coupled with the quicker installation, the savings over installing copper pipes can be significant. Also, PEX pipes don’t corrode like copper and aren’t susceptible to freezing. What is better copper or PEX? Can you run PEX to shower head? As per Uponor/Wirsbo documentation: When doing a shower/tub valve — you can use PEX for the hot and cold supply and for the leg that goes from the shower head but NOT to the tub spout. Is 1 2 PEX big enough for shower? As long as the supply lines for the shower tie into a 3/4″ line, 1/2″ will be fine. I use a Delta shower faucet that already has pex adapters made into the valve body, no threading or sweating, just crimp and you’re done. … When you connect the shower head to the Delta valve, use the “tub” outlet to get the maximum flow. PEX was banned in California due to some concerns about toxic materials leaking through the pipe and into water. Through various national laboratory tests, PEX has proven to be completely safe and durable. It is now legal in California and even included in principal plumbing codes. Why is PEX banned in California? It was banned because water quality studies showed that chemicals from PEX pipe were leaching into the drinking water. California often bans anything that poisons drinking water, especially if it puts residents at unnecessary exposure to carcinogens or anything that could cause birth defects. What are the disadvantages of PEX? PEX Plumbing DisadvantagesPEX may leach BPA and other toxic chemicals. … PEX is extremely sensitive to UV light. … PEX can be damaged by chemicals and pests. … PEX can’t be installed in high heat areas. … PEX is semi-permeable, which means liquid can enter the pipe.Feb 15, 2020 What is the lifespan of PEX pipe? 100 yearsAdditionally, long-term testing programs on PEX have shown that it has a potential lifespan of more than 100 years. So, while copper systems may have to be re-piped every few years or decades due to corrosion and pinhole leaks, a PEX system can last 10 times longer — or more. Is PEX safer than copper? PEX Tubing is much more resistant to freeze-breakage than copper or rigid plastic pipe. … Attaching PEX tube to fittings does not require soldering, and so eliminates the health hazards involved with lead-based solder and acid fluxes. PEX is also safer to install since a torch is not needed to make connections. Can rats chew through PEX pipe? Mice and rats will chew through anything they can, including plastic, so PEX tubing is at just as much risk as the plastic-coated wiring in a car or an HVAC unit. While all rodent damage can be expensive, if rodents chew through a home’s PEX water pipes, the result can be disastrous. Does PEX pipe cause cancer? They found that each type caused odors exceeding the Environmental Protection Agency’s guidelines, and leached chemicals such as toluene, which is neurotoxic, and MTBE, a carcinogen that’s been banned as a gasoline additive, but is a byproduct produced during PEX pipe manufacture. Does PEX plumbing cause cancer? New pex pipes can leach both toluene and ETBE, volatile organic compounds that are considered carcinogenic. These start at pretty high levels and decrease as the pipe gets older. The information that is new to be is two-fold: Some types of pex are worse than others… Where is PEX not allowed? Pex not being allowed in commercial or industrial buildings, and thus not in residential buildings deemed “commercial industrial”. Is PEX safe for drinking water? PEX is used in medical applications and is resistant to high and low temperatures, scale, and chlorine. … In fact, Whelton and his team have found that at least six brands of PEX pipes and a PEX-a green building plumbing system have impacted both the chemical and odor quality of drinking water. Should you insulate PEX pipe? Pipe insulation is a prudent step to take. Not only does insulation promote energy efficiency, but it can also reduce potential problems with moisture and condensation. … That’s because PEX pipes—basically a type of plastic—are physically different from other common piping materials. Is PEX A or PEX b better? Flexibility – PEX-A is the most flexible, allowing for it to be fastened by cold expansion, which allows the end to be fluted prior to inserting the fitting. PEX B is not expandable and you should never expand the end of a PEX-B pipe. Kink-Resistance – PEX-A has the greatest resistance, PEX-B the lowest. What is the safest pipe for drinking water? Copper pipes with lead-free joint materials are the best choice for water pipes. They are long-lasting and won’t leach chemicals into your drinking water. Can I use blue PEX for hot water? Blue PEX pipe carries cold water. White PEX pipe can be used for either hot or cold water. … There would be no problem, for example, using blue PEX for hot water lines or red PEX for cold water lines. Other types of PEX include PEX-Aluminum-PEX, which is often orange, and PEX for reclaimed water, which is usually purple. | <urn:uuid:bebe6047-fe5f-46d2-a135-9ee080993e1c> | https://chirality2012.com/qa/question-is-pex-banned-in-california.html | mlfoundations/dclm-baseline-1.0-parquet | Ads 468x60px Monday, October 18, 2010 Suck is a refreshing addition to the vampire genre. For way too long, vampires have been approached with just too much angst and not enough fun. Remember fun vampire films such as Lost Boys, Once Bitten and My Best Friend Is A Vampire? Suck brings back the fun of the vampire genre. It centers around a mediocre rock band who are (pardon the pun) dying to get their big break. Their big break comes in the form of bassist, Jennifer, who gets turned into a vampire. As the band slowly join the ranks of the undead, their career takes off and it looks like nothing can stop them. Except for a rabid vampire hunter (Malcolm McDowell) and the lead singer's choice of whether to make it big or stay alive. Suck is funny and intelligent with a lot of wonderful one liners. The music is awesome and the cast is one of the most top notch casts I have seen in a long while. Iggy Pop, Henry Rollins, Moby, Alice Cooper, and Malcolm McDowell, how many other movies can boast that cast. Jennifer is played by Jessica Pare who was wonderful in Lost and Delirious and Matt Foley is hysterical. I was suprised to see Mike Lobel who I loved on Degrassi show up in the film as the band's drummer. To future vampire movie creators, take note of this movie. This is the way to go. Insert more humor, more vampire pride if you will. I think fans of the vampire genre have had their fill of whiny pretty boys who do nothing but angst and brood. It's about time that we, the movie viewers get something that's dark without being depressing, or funny without resorting to repulsive body humor. Suck stays original even up to the very end, it doesn't portray vampirism as this awful horrible thing that most vampire films would have done. If you like intelligent comedy and want to go back to the days where vampire movies were actually fun, then Suck is definitely a must rent movie. | <urn:uuid:1afc372d-fa11-4d7a-ac0f-6a02eb07362c> | http://ladyj3000.blogspot.com/2010/10/suck.html | mlfoundations/dclm-baseline-1.0-parquet | Often referred to as the “Cradle of French civilization in North America” or the “Breadbasket of Québec,” Côte-de-Beaupré was colonized rapidly by the French in the 17th century. While it was originally prized for its fertile land and known for its pilgrimage to Saint Anne, it wasn’t until the 19th and 20th centuries that this region located east of Québec City saw its economy begin to diversify. Château-Richer, one of the oldest villages in Québec, sits in the heart of Côte-de-Beaupré. It was the seat of the Beaupré Seigneury, as well as the first parish in the region. But the history of Château-Richer and the “Coste des beaux prés” is that, above all, of the 170 or so founding families that settled there. It is the history of generations of women and men who played a role in its development. With this exhibit, Aux Trois Couvents seeks to celebrate the oft-forgotten figures who left their mark on Château-Richer and its region. Step back in time and discover these people—some unassuming, others illustrious—who were pioneers, farmers, members of the clergy, artists, artisans… Today, Château-Richer looks back at them. A production of Aux Trois Couvents, a place of cultural discovery Start reading the storyA production of Aux Trois Couvents, a place of cultural discovery | <urn:uuid:3dfbdfb4-2448-485c-b0a3-6b619897ec13> | https://www.communitystories.ca/v2/portraits-de-nos-ancetres_portraits-of-our-ancestors/ | HuggingFaceFW/fineweb-edu | Episode 65: All At Once Bridge concept sketch. DanArt “Swing our tail pipe around and prepare to fire the main engines!” Crimson ordered. She pulled down the intercom panel and keyed in a direct line to Engineering again. Gator answered. “What the heck’s goin’ on, Crims?” “Mag mine. Suspected pirates. We’re gonna’ swing our tail around and try to melt through the diablos thing. Less than 4 minutes, full thrust.” “Whoop-dee-do. I gotta’ tell you: every time we do this, things get a little worse!” “You wanna’ explain to our passengers how we got picked outta’ mag-fall, crushed by a mine, and kidnapped by pirates?” “Pirates!” a familiar but unwelcome voice on the Bridge: Amborghent Joffs. Crimson spun around and levered herself out of the chair to face the frazzled councilman. “Not yet! If we succeed, we might yet get away! I need you and your people in their quarters and out of the way!” Shaak-Rom was out of the Archive and standing behind the civilian leader. Joffs only took a step back, worry plastered his rotund, greenish face, but he was resolute. “I… think I should stay. At least until I know more.” “We’re kind of busy!” Crimson snapped. Shaak-Rom put a red hand on Joff’s shoulder and said, “Perhaps I can bring the councilman up to speed.” “Fine,” Crimson waved her hand, “Just get him out of here!” She turned back to the intercom. “Gator! Prep the engines. I want any excess power to inertia dampeners.” “Here we go…!” She turned her attention to the view screen. It was still spinning, stars wheeling from one side to the other, but it seemed different somehow. Andross and Clidjitt were trading instructions: “ …Stabilize with port thrusters.” “Axis aligned!” “Keep it there.” “Are we in position?” Crimson asked, “Because I feel like I’m going to throw up.” “It’s better not to look out the window,” Andross growled. His own eyes were fixed on the navigational display. The blip of the Rival Bay sat in shrinking orbit around a central point, like a tetherball coiling around its pole. “When will we be in range?” Clidjitt’s two claws typed with the precision speed of a classical pianist. “T-minus two minutes, twenty-five seconds.” Crimson was back on the intercom. “Gator, two minutes to full thrust.” His baritone rumbled sounded out of breath. “Almost there!” Crimson tried to ignore the spinning stars. “Clidjitt, you gotta’ spare eye for pirates?” The insectoid deftly made adjusted to Andross’ commands, while sparing a third pincer to flick across the scanner controls. “Still no significant reading beyond the mag-well.” “Keep looking!” Gator’s voice came back, “Engine’s primed and ready.” “Good. Inertial dampeners to full.” “One minute,” announced Andross. The seconds counted by in slow ticks. Crimson felt her Mindframe trying to push an Earth I poet’s quote out her mouth—someone called Dickinson. She managed to keep it to herself: ‘Twas like a Maelstrom, with a notch, That nearer, every Day, Kept narrowing its boiling Wheel Thanks, Emily, Crimson grimaced. “Approaching optimal burn range,” Clidjitt chirped. “Standbye,” Crimson ordered. She switched back to shipwide communications, “All hands, prepare for full thrust! Passengers, brace yourselves.” She clenched her teeth. Twice in one year; too much. “Bring the fire!” “Firing!” Andross answered. The Rival began to shake from the aft as the engines rumbled to life. Then, like someone had pulled back and elastic band and let it snap, the Rival bucked. Crimson cursed, and was crushed to the deck by the force of a thousand Gs. She tried to push her face and chest away from the vibrating deck. The others were properly strapped into their seats. The bulkheads groaned and rattled. Andross shouted over the protesting structure, “Full thrust! The mine is still dragging us in!” Crimson propped her robotic hand on her metal knee and forced herself up, feeling like the ball bearing in an aerosol spray can. Straining against the force she keyed the intercom and called to Engineering. “A little more power, Gator!” “Safeties are off!” replied the engineer. She felt Andross increase the throttle. Triumphantly he yelled, “Rival holding position!” “Give it hell,” Crimson growled. “Crimson,” Clidjitt chirped, “I’m detecting another ship. It’s appeared about 1000 kilometers outside the event horizon. Bearing 311, mark 55. They’re coming our way!” Crimson was struggling to seat herself into the scanning station behind the insectoid. “They must have figured out our plan! Are they armed?” “The mag-mine is still disrupting our scanners. But spectrograph indicates a metallic object of about 20 meters by 50 meters.” “That’s about the size of the Boatmam,” Andross inserted. Boarding craft. Could be worse. One thing at a time, though. The panel behind them at the neck of the bridge flashed with a shower of sparks. Joffs voice cried out from the back; it sounded more like surprise than pain. “Where we at with the mine?” Crimson demanded. “Holding!” Andross said. “One point five minutes!” Clidjitt replied, “sixty seconds and we’re free.” “When will the pirate vessel enter the event horizon?” Crimson asked. “At current speed,” Clidjitt referred the spectrograph. “Roughly a minute.” “Standby,” Crimson warned, “He deactivates the mine to try and save his equipment we’re gonna go flying.” | <urn:uuid:dd095d9f-9afb-403e-a882-ad4660eaea65> | https://fromnogrod.wordpress.com/space-dust/episode-65-all-at-once/ | mlfoundations/dclm-baseline-1.0-parquet | The spirit of love and light is omnipresent and includes all of nature, this happens because God is everywhere. This spirit takes different forms in people, animals, plants, and natural elements. Trees have always been associated with spirituality, divination, and healing. In ancient times, Celtic druids were known as tree experts. It is said that from the trees, the druids had learned much of the information in their possession. Socrates also argued that the oak was a kind of oracle capable of predicting the future and revealing important information. It is not only the oaks that are considered sacred trees. Other trees considered sacred and divine symbols are the willow, pine, olive, and laurel. The active ingredients of aspirin were extracted from the bark of the white willow. Joseph of Arimathea walked with the help of a stick made from a branch of sacred hawthorn. Pine trees produce an oil which is a natural ointment used to relieve pain. All these examples must make us understand the importance of trees and lead us to have respect for these creatures of God. The spirits of trees live within each plant, just like the soul lives in the body of us human beings. It will have happened to you at least once in your life, to glimpse a face in the knots of the trees or in the streaks of the bark. If you pause to look at the trees with an open heart and mind, you will be able to see how the trunks of old oaks or pines look like old gentlemen. These are the faces of the tree spirits. Just like people, tree spirits also have personalities. It is possible to build a real relationship and a relationship based on trust with these beings. Probably the most important thing these spirits teach us is to deepen the bond with nature and to respect it. Just like any tree, plants also have a spirit. We must learn to respect the spiritual essence of plants. A good habit is to talk to plants. Plants hear our words and are able to appreciate sincere compliments and loving care. This explains why people who talk to their flowers have lush gardens and balconies. God manifests his spirit, the spirit of love and light, through all the creatures around us. To connect with these spirits it is necessary to have an empathic heart and an open mind. We respect these creatures, establish a connection with them and learn to live in communion with nature. | <urn:uuid:0ef1bc97-0bdd-4615-b5ca-cb4842b9ef44> | https://guardianangel.cloudaccess.host/the-spirit-of-love-and-light-is-omnipresent/ | HuggingFaceFW/fineweb-edu | United States Department of Agriculture National Agricultural Statistics Service Texas Crop Progress and Condition Southern Plains Regional Field Office Post Office Box 70 Austin, Texas 78767 (800) 626-3142 · FAX (855) 270-2725 · www.nass.usda.gov/tx Issue: TX-CW0917 Weekly Summary for March 20- 26 Released: March 27, 2017 Warm, windy conditions were experienced in many areas of the state last week. Strong winds caused damage to some crops in the Trans Pecos. Precipitation in the Northeastern part of the state fluctuated between a quarter of an inch and 2.5 inches. Most areas of the state recorded less than a quarter of an inch of rainfall. There were 6.4 days suitable for fieldwork. Small Grains: Winter wheat was rated 72 percent fair to good. Some wheat fields in the Southern Low Plains showed signs of moisture stress, but the dry conditions extended to most of the Northern parts of the state, the Edwards Plateau and South Texas. Oats condition was rated 79 percent fair to good, one point below the previous week. Row Crops: Cotton planting continued in the Lower Valley and the Upper Coast. Producers in the Northern districts of the state continued field preparations for cotton planting. Corn planting continued across the state. Corn in the Blacklands was emerging and producers were fertilizing fields. Sorghum planting was underway in South Texas. Fruit, Vegetable and Specialty Crops: Pecan trees in the Southern Low Plains, the Cross Timbers, the Edwards Plateau and South Texas were budding. Harvest of sugarcane, citrus and vegetables continued in the Lower Valley. Livestock, Range and Pasture: Producers in the plains and the Blacklands were still supplementing cattle on range. Most of the cattle was in good condition. Although some of the pasture dried out due to the warm weather and strong winds, the pasture and range condition was rated mostly good to fair. Crop Progress NA Not available. Crop Condition 1 The formula for the condition index is I = (5V + 25P + 60F + 90G + 110E)/100 where I = crop condition index and V, P, F, G, E = percentage of crop rated very poor, poor, fair, good, excellent. Soil Moisture and Days Suitable by District https://www.nass.usda.gov/St a USDA, National Agricultural Statistics Service, Southern Plains Regional Field Office http://droughtmonitor.unl.edu/ | <urn:uuid:2c7b76fa-a802-4128-a9e6-3bcaf2405d75> | https://www.nass.usda.gov/Statistics_by_State/Texas/Publications/Crop_Progress_&_Condition/prevCW/2017/tx_cw_03_26_2017.pdf | HuggingFaceFW/finepdfs-edu | Sculpting Rome’s Waters: The Danube Kerry Longbottom Fig. 19. The Danube. Gianlorenzo Bernini, detail of “Fountain of the Four Rivers,” 1648-1651, Rome, Piazza Navona (source — Vanhoy) Fig. 20. Gianlorenzo Bernini, detail of “Fountain of the Four Rivers,” 1648-1651, Rome Piazza Navona (source — Ecpica) The final figure, representing Europe, is the Danube, accompanied by a horse that crosses between two of the grottoes at the base of the fountain (fig. 20). The Danube is the only figure that appears fully aware of the significance of the apparition above, with one hand raised in a gesture of awe and the other supporting the papal crest (fig. 21). It would seem, however, that the obvious choice of rivers to represent Europe would be the Tiber, as it was upon this river’s banks that the Vatican was built, and the regions surrounding the Danube had long been a Protestant stronghold.[1] Even Domenico’s biography does not address this peculiarity, instead focusing his description on how the figure is “marveling at the stupendous obelisk.”[2] The decision to use the Danube to represent Europe must therefore have been a deliberate one that would have been easily recognized by Bernini’s audience, and can be explained by several key historical events that occurred during Innocent X’s reign. Fig. 21. The Pamphili family’s coat of arms, crowned by the Papal crest. Gianlorenzo Bernini, detail of “Fountain of the Four Rivers,” 1648-1651, Rome, Piazza Navona (source — HEN-Magonza) When Innocent X was elected pope in 1644, he inherited a dire situation from Urban VIII. The territorial and religious battles of the Thirty Years War had been raging in the Austrian Monarchy (Austria, Hungary, and Bohemia) since 1618, and little aid had been offered under Urban’s rule to help restore Catholicism to this region.[3] After Urban’s death, Innocent was chosen as his successor for the chief reason that the College of Cardinals believed he was the only candidate capable of restoring peace while recovering Catholic losses in this area.[4] Almost immediately after his election Innocent arranged for negotiations between Catholic and Protestant representatives in order to draw up a comprehensive peace treaty, and though it took four years for lasting agreements to be made these negotiations ultimately resulted in the signing of the Peace of Westphalia in 1648.[5] While this treaty did not return all of the Austrian Monarchy to Catholic control, Innocent was successful in reinstating Catholicism in both Austria and Bohemia, crippling what had been a Protestant stronghold, and restoring peace to Europe.[6] With these events in mind, the symbolic meaning of Bernini’s depiction of the Danube becomes clear. The Danube’s support of the papal crest and admiration of the obelisk (which, as mentioned previously, is crowned by the Pamphili family dove) is meant to signify Austria and Hungary being brought under Innocent’s rule. In a broader sense, it represents the superiority of Catholicism over Protestantism, portraying the Catholic Church being guided by the light of heaven. The Peace of Westphalia would still have been fresh on the minds of the Romans when the Fountain of the Four Rivers was unveiled in 1651, thus all who saw it would have been keenly aware of this statement of Innocent X’s victory. [1] Christian, “Pamphili Politics,” 354. [2] Bernini, Life, 163. [3] Christian, “Pamphili Politics,” 354. [4] Christian, “Pamphili Politics,” 354. [5] Christian, “Pamphili Politics,” 354. [6] Christian, “Pampili Politics,” 355. | <urn:uuid:750b3d60-74ad-4216-943e-9d4eb95a73c9> | http://bernini2013.org/fountains/the-danube/ | mlfoundations/dclm-baseline-1.0-parquet | Can a landlord sue a tenant for bringing bedbugs into a rental unit? Posted by Neil Shouse | Jun 11, 2018 | 0 Comments It may surprise you to know that a landlord can sue a tenant who brings bedbugs onto the landlord's property in California. This applies to both residential and commercial tenants. Tenants have a legal duty under California law to keep premises they rent clean and sanitary. Breaching this duty is considered negligence. But even if the tenant breaches this duty, it does not prove that the tenant was responsible for the bedbugs. Bedbug infestations often go undetected. This can make it hard to prove when and how the bedbugs got there. The elements of a landlord's claim for bedbugs In order to win a lawsuit against a tenant who causes a bedbug infestation, the landlord must prove: 1. That the defendant was the landlord's tenant; 2. That the defendant negligently brought bedbugs onto property owned or controlled by the landlord; 3. That the defendant's negligence was a substantial factor in causing the plaintiff harm (“causation”); and 4. That, as a result, the defendant suffered damages. How does a landlord prove a tenant was negligent? Proving causation is the hardest part of a bedbug lawsuit in California. But the landlord only needs to convince a jury (or judge) by a “preponderance of the evidence.” This legal standard means that it was “more likely than not” that the tenant caused the infestation. Ways the landlord might be able to show this include introducing evidence that: The unit was clean and free of bedbugs when it was rented out. This might be shown with photos and/or an inspection report from a reputable extermination company. The tenant did not keep the premises in a clean and sanitary condition. Again, photos might be helpful as might prior written communications about unsanitary conditions from: • The landlord to the tenant, or • Other tenants to the landlord. An extermination company's report after an infestation. A professional bedbug exterminator might be able to shed some light on where an infestation came from. While not conclusive, when added to other evidence it might show that the tenant did not use reasonable care in preventing bedbugs. How can a landlord prevent bedbugs on his/her rental property? The best prevention against bedbugs is to keep property clean and sanitary. But even this is not foolproof. Bed bugs can be brought onto property in luggage, on new furniture, and even on someone's clothing. Landlords (especially those in highly bedbug infested areas such as Los Angeles) can protect themselves by taking the following steps: 1. Educate tenants in writing about bed bugs, as required by California's new bed bug disclosure requirements for landlords (California Civil Code 1954.603); 2. Although not legally required unless an infestation is suspected, have a vacant unit inspected for bed bugs before renting it out (and get a written report that the unit is clean); 3. Do not rent out a unit with a bed bug infestation (which would violate California's bed bug laws); 4. Respond promptly to any tenant complaints about bed bugs; and 5. Notify a tenant within two business days of any finding of bed bugs by a pest control company (required by California law). For confirmed infestations in common areas, all tenants must be given notice. About the Author Neil Shouse Leave a Comment Free attorney consultations... Regain peace of mind... Office Locations To contact us, please select your state: Call us 24/7 (855) 396-0370 | <urn:uuid:1544b8f7-6354-42f5-8c1c-2b16ca086401> | https://www.shouselaw.com/can-a-landlord-sue-a-tenant-for-bringing-bedbugs-into-a-rental-unit | mlfoundations/dclm-baseline-1.0-parquet | William E. Spain Richmond, Virginia Inducted in 1988, Judge William E. Spain began his aviation career as a "grease-monkey" helping to wash, refuel and repair airplanes at Richard E. Byrd Flying Field. He soloed in 1930 and became a lawyer in 1934. He was an original member of the Virginia Protective Flying Force, a part of the Virginia Militia, which later became the nucleus of the Virginia Wing of the Civil Air Patrol on December 1, 1941. During WWII, he was a Civil Air Patrol pilot attached to a target-towing unit at Langley Field in Hampton, VA. Judge Spain remained active in the CAP until 1965, serving in a variety of capacities, including Virginia Wing Deputy Commander. He was a founder of the Virginia Aeronautical Historical Society and was the Chairman of the Board of Directors when the Society's acquired the Shannon Aviation Collection. A retired chief judge of Richmond Circuit Court, he logged more than 4,000 hours of flying time and has been a life long supporter of aviation. | <urn:uuid:6f26c542-9b36-421a-b87e-efc58e2dc5c6> | https://www.vahsonline.com/pdf/Spain.pdf | HuggingFaceFW/finepdfs-edu | Contemporary Francophonie inspires governments of the Ministerial Conference on the Canadian Francophonie This theme illustrates the variety of strategies implemented by governments to provide services in French and promote the advancement of the Canadian Francophonie. In this context, the Francophonie is referred to as “contemporary” to underscore the fact that its profile has changed considerably. Over the years, many initiatives have helped in bringing about significant advances in sectors that address the realities and aspirations of this Francophonie. By Canadian Francophonie, we mean mother-tongue Francophones, but also Francophiles and French-speaking newcomers. The ministers will therefore take a contemporary look at the Canadian Francophonie, while discussing strategies to promote it, increase awareness of its contribution to Canadian society as a whole, and promote its advancement. THE MINISTERS responsible for the Canadian Francophonie will meet on June 26 and 27, 2014, on Prince Edward Island, under the theme “Pan-Canadian Showcase: Government Support of the Contemporary Francophonie.” The Ministerial Conference on the Canadian Francophonie, created in 1994, is the only intergovernmental forum that brings together the ministers responsible for the Canadian Francophonie. The Conference works for an open, dynamic, and diverse Francophonie that contributes to, and participates fully in, the growth of Canadian society. A look at the Canadian Francophonie EACH YEAR, on the International Day of La Francophonie, the Government of Canada highlights Canada’s Francophone community in its 260 embassies and diplomatic missions in 150 countries worldwide. On this occasion, we remind people that nearly a quarter of the more than 33 million people living in Canada speak French as their first official language. While the majority of Francophones (87 percent) are in Quebec, there are 1 million French speakers in other regions across the country. Almost 10 million Canadians can carry on a conversation in French. In the area of education, French is the language of instruction in over 3,000 primary and secondary schools, 75 colleges and close to 30 universities. Francophone or Anglophone minorities in every province and territory have the right to primary and secondary school instruction in their language. Consequently, outside Quebec, every year, more than 147,000 Francophones study in French in 623 institutions, managed by the communities. In addition, 1.7 million young Canadians are studying French as a second language, and more than 356,500 of these students are in immersion classes. In terms of French-language media and culture, Canada boasts the following: • A national public broadcaster, Radio-Canada; • Over 200 radio stations, 50 television stations, 11 daily newspapers and 40 community newspapers; and • Major national institutions such as the Canada Council for the Arts, Telefilm, the National Film Board of Canada working to strengthen and disseminate the cultural expression of the French language nationwide. ONTARIO Ontario’s New Process for the Designation of Agencies under the French Language Services Act THE CRITERIA and process for designating an agency under the *French Language Services Act* (FLSA), in place since 1991, have been updated, in collaboration with ministries and representatives of the Franco-Ontarian community, to ensure the provision of high quality French-language services. The revised process now applies to new requests for designation, and it also includes the evaluation of existing designated agencies. The new criteria include clarified provisions for the active offer of services and Francophone representation on the Boards of Directors and management of agencies. In addition, to ensure a consistent approach across government, a common designation plan template for use by all ministries was developed to process and review all designation requests, as well as to monitor existing designated agencies. The new criteria include clarified provisions for the active offer of services The new evaluation framework includes a written commitment of accountability from the Board of Directors of each designated agency with respect to the provision of services in French, in accordance with the designation criteria. **Designated agencies** Three of the most recent agencies to be designated under the FLSA are: *Le Collège de Hearst*, in July 2013; *La Cité collégiale*, in January 2014 and Laurentian University, whose partial designation takes effect on July 1, 2014. This brings the number of designated postsecondary institutions in the province up to four, since the designation of *Collège Boréal* in 2008. Jean-Marc Fournier, new Minister responsible for the Canadian Francophonie Following the general election on April 7, the Premier of Québec, Philippe Couillard, appointed Jean-Marc Fournier as Minister responsible for Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs and the Canadian Francophonie, Minister responsible for Access to Information and the Reform of Democratic Institutions, and Government House Leader. Representing the riding of Saint Laurent, Mr. Fournier was first elected to the National Assembly in 1994. Since then, he has held numerous ministerial positions. The 5th World Acadian Congress is fast approaching! Nearly 14 of Québec’s departments are involved in organizing the World Acadian Congress (CMA), which is being held August 8 to 24, 2014, in Acadia of the Lands and Forests. Québec will host a kiosk at ExpoMONDE, CMA’s international showcase, and will be a part of the Multimedia Pavilion, along with a number of other partners, such as the Centre de la francophonie des Amériques. And that’s not all! Québec is proudly organizing Québec Day – a celebration of Québec and its Acadian heritage – to be held in Témiscouata on August 23. The closing ceremonies will be held in Québec as well, on August 24. We hope to see you all there! The Canadian Francophonie Games The 6th edition of the Games is being held in Gatineau from July 23 to 27. More than 1,200 young people from Québec and from Francophone and Acadian communities will have the opportunity to forge closer ties. The Québec government is providing $472,500 in funding for the event, $50,000 from the Secrétariat aux affaires intergouvernementales canadiennes. NOVA SCOTIA Building healthy, literate communities LITERACY is a key contributor to health and well-being, with higher literacy linked to better health outcomes. Access to information and books in one’s mother tongue plays an important role in the life-long learning that supports health. Nova Scotia is proud to support initiatives to encourage reading and literacy in French. Building libraries’ French-language collections Nova Scotia’s public libraries have recently acquired the following French-language materials: • 204 ebooks by French Canadian authors accessible across the province through Nova Scotia Public Libraries’ Digital Media Collection • A collection of materials on mental health • 841 fiction and non-fiction books to enhance Halifax Public Libraries’ French-language collections. One Book Nova Scotia This province-wide community reading event revolved around a single book – Fauna by Alissa York – revealed at a launch event. The initiative was promoted in both French and English, and French copies of the book were available through the province’s network of public libraries. Community literacy The Province supports French literacy initiatives, including family literacy (Je parle français avec mon enfant) and competency development (En voie du travail) for Acadians and Francophones offered by Équipe d’alphabétisation Nouvelle-Écosse. Linguistic and Cultural Development Policy: a social blueprint In April 2014, the New Brunswick government adopted the *Linguistic and Cultural Development Policy* (for French Education) tabled jointly by the Acadian and Francophone community and the Department of Education and Early Childhood Development. The entire community is proud of this unique project because it is the result of numerous consultations between various partners in education and key community stakeholders who have combined their strengths to develop a strategy that will ensure the vitality and growth of the Acadian and Francophone community as a whole. Through this policy, the Acadian and Francophone community, in cooperation with the Government of New Brunswick, has committed to a genuine social blueprint to take on the many challenges associated with its minority linguistic situation, and one that could be adapted, over the years, to the multiplicity and the ever-changing nature of its realities. The purpose of the policy is to enhance the capacity of all the education partners to fulfill the dual mission of the Acadian and Francophone education system, i.e., to ensure the educational success and identity building of each learner, while contributing to the sustainable development of the Acadian and Francophone community and the province of New Brunswick. MANITOBA Expansion of the List of Electors for the Division scolaire franco-manitobaine The *Division scolaire franco-manitobaine* (DSFM) has been examining innovative ways to open up its trustee election process. Since the DSFM was created in the early 1990s, various adjustments have been made to its governance model in order to support the DSFM’s management structure and better meet the aspirations of the Francophone community. Further to various consultations with the Francophone community, the DSFM approached the government about expanding its list of potential electors. It should be noted that, until now, only parents with children enrolled in the DSFM have been entitled to vote. The DSFM wanted to extend the right to vote to other classes of individuals, including DSFM graduates, the parents of graduates, and parents availing themselves of the services offered in the preschool sector. On March 28, 2014, the government approved By-Law 159-13 of the DSFM and amended Regulation 202/93 so as to alter the electoral divisions of the DSFM and accommodate an expanded pool of potential electors. The DSFM wanted to extend the right to vote to other classes of individuals These refinements open the door to new participants in the electoral process and hence greater involvement in school board elections by the members of the DSFM’s school community. It is hoped that a larger number of electors will take part in this democratic exercise and thereby enrich the discussions surrounding the general orientation and direction of the Francophone education system of Manitoba. It should be noted that the next election of DSFM trustees will be held on October 15, 2014, and that there are 11 positions to be filled. BRITISH COLUMBIA Mapping British Columbia French Resources and Services THE BRITISH COLUMBIA provincial government has launched a new web-friendly online mapping tool, *Francophone Resources and Services in British Columbia*, that offers a web-base mapping interface that pinpoints French services in the sectors of education, early childhood, health, community associations, tourism, and business, including retailers. The web-based mapping tool was developed in partnership by the B.C. Francophone Affairs Program, the Ministry of Technology, Innovation and Citizens’ Services, and DataBC, with input from four provincial francophone organizations: *Fédération des francophones de la C.-B.*, *Fédération des parents francophones de la C.-B.*, *Société de développement économique de la C.-B.*, and *Réso-Santé*. The project grew from a meager 120 entries to over 600 entries as people ascertained the usefulness of the application. One of the main challenges was to create a mapping system and geocoder compatible with French characters. Equally challenging was to format the data provided by the various sources into uniform entries for readability. The map will assist Francophones and Francophiles in making educated decisions might they be seeking an economic opportunity or looking at immigrating to British Columbia and wanting to establish near a French environment. This project was partly supported by the *Canada – British Columbia Official Languages Agreement on French-Language Services*. PRINCE EDWARD ISLAND A light goes out on Prince Edward Island BORN IN A SMALL ACADIAN village on Prince Edward Island, Angèle Arsenault was the ultimate ambassador of the Island’s French song and Acadian culture during her successful career, both in Canada and in other parts of the world. For years, PEI French immersion teachers and students were exposed to the French language through Angèle’s music and lyrics. The eighth child of a family of fourteen, Angèle started making a name for herself in the music world during her teenage years, and she pursued her passion until the very end. In the mid-1990s, Angèle came back to her Island home, much to the pleasure of her family and friends, as well as the entire Acadian and Francophone community. She received numerous honours during her life, including Officer of the Order of Canada (2003), member of the Order of Prince Edward Island (2005), as well as a Lifetime Achievement Award for her overall contribution to the Island’s music scene (2010). A light may have gone out, but Angèle’s memory will live on in the hearts of those who knew her and who were moved by her talent. Come and Discover Saskatchewan... in French! THE GOVERNMENT of Saskatchewan is committed to supporting economic growth in the province so as to improve the quality of life of its residents, particularly by offering tourism and recreation opportunities. Among these are the provincial parks, which are hosting a growing number of visitors. The provincial parks guide is available in French under the title *Les parcs provinciaux de la Saskatchewan*. For outdoor enthusiasts, the 35 provincial parks and 128 recreation sites offer a whole gamut of activities. Hunting, trapping, and fishing are popular activities in Saskatchewan and draw many tourists to the province. The Ministry of Environment provides, on its [website](#), a French version of the *Hunters’ and Trappers’ Guide*, as well as the *Anglers’ Guide*. Tourism Saskatchewan also offers service in French through a bilingual consultant. She would be happy to help you. Call toll-free at 1-877-237-2273. Come see our sand dunes, explore our prairies, our boreal forest, and enjoy our lakes with their extraordinary beaches! Saskatchewan is waiting for you! --- **ALBERTA** Concerto Network: a network of bilingual and franco-friendly municipalities THE GOVERNMENT of Alberta’s Francophone Secretariat has been collaborating with the *Conseil de développement économique de l’Alberta* (CDÉA) to establish Concerto, a network of bilingual and franco-friendly municipalities that wish to leverage French language and cultures to attract tourism, investors, and new residents. The [Concerto Network](#) objectives are: - To officially recognize municipalities that share Francophone heritage - To create conditions for municipalities to benefit from the Francophone presence - To encourage sustainable concrete economic development initiatives. The CDÉA’s role is to coordinate the network’s activities, suggest strategies, and collaborate with municipalities in four key areas: 1. Tourism development 2. Recruitment and employability 3. Attraction of bilingual residents, entrepreneurs, and investors 4. Sustainable development and green economy. Five municipalities – Plamondon, Beaumont, Legal, Morinville, and St. Albert – have joined the Concerto Network since its establishment in 2013. Other Alberta municipalities are set to join the network in the fall. The Government of Alberta is committed to working with the Francophone community. In addition to its support for the development of the Concerto Network, Alberta has earmarked funding, through the *Alberta-Canada Agreement on French-Language Services*, to further support municipalities in developing services in French. Minister Heather Klimchuk presenting a commemorative plaque to the Mayor of Beaumont, Camille Bérubé. Celebrating 20+ Years of Cooperation THE GOVERNMENT of Newfoundland and Labrador has been cooperating with the federal government in the area of French-language services since 1993 with the signing of the first *Promotion of Official Languages Cooperation Agreement*. Under this agreement, the Office of French Services (OFS) was created in 1995 and has been responsible for the implementation of a series of subsequent partnership agreements aimed at increasing the government’s capacity to deliver services in French and coordinating support for the development of the province’s Francophone and Acadian community. Over the years, the OFS has greatly expanded its scope beyond French-language training and translation to now include a government/community liaison service, linguistic support services, intergovernmental cooperation, and policy development. Further, government’s decision to designate May 30 as *Provincial Day of Francophonie* and to appoint a Minister responsible for Francophone Affairs both signaled very positive steps in acknowledging and addressing the needs of Francophones in this province. Having just signed a new *Canada/Newfoundland and Labrador Agreement on French-Language Services 2013-2018*, the government looks forward to continued partnership with the federal government in order to provide ongoing support to the growth and development of the provincial Francophone and Acadian community. --- NORTHWEST TERRITORIES Positive and Productive Consultations with the Francophone Community OVER THE fall and winter of 2013-2014, the Francophone Affairs Secretariat of the Government of the Northwest Territories (GNWT) and the *Fédération franco-ténoise* – the official voice of NWT Francophones – teamed up to consult the territorial Francophone community to inform NWT Francophones about the *GNWT Strategic Plan on French Language Communications and Services* and to learn about the community’s priorities for its implementation. There were four consultation meetings held – one in each of the four NWT “significant demand” communities (Yellowknife, Fort Smith, Inuvik, and Hay River). In all, 87 residents participated in the discussions. The consultations were a positive and productive exercise by all accounts. Francophone residents appreciated the opportunity to discuss their experiences and priorities as Francophones in the NWT and to share with the GNWT where they would most like to see improvements in the short, medium, and long terms. GNWT departments will benefit from this feedback as they finalize and implement their own operating plans. Improving the ability of departments to provide information and services to Francophones will be a positive new dimension of the client service culture across the GNWT. To learn more about the Strategic Plan and the consultations, visit the Francophone Affairs Secretariat’s website at [www.ece.gov.nt.ca/official-languages/francophone-affairs-secretariat](http://www.ece.gov.nt.ca/official-languages/francophone-affairs-secretariat). Bonjour Yukon – Active Offer of French Language Services ON MAY 15, as part of the 8th annual Yukon Francophonie Day celebrations, the Government of Yukon and the Association franco-yukonnaise launched Yukon’s new active offer logo – Bonjour Yukon. The launch marked the start of an Active Offer Awareness Campaign inviting people to use available French language services. The logo and campaign aim to raise awareness of places where the public can easily receive services in French, whether in the public or private sector. The Bonjour Yukon logo was developed through collaboration between the Government of Yukon and the Association franco-yukonnaise. The choice and the grading of the colours evoke the movement of the aurora borealis and the ever-present Yukon forests. The semi-circle represents the midnight sun under which flows the great Yukon River. In the centre, the raven – the avian emblem of Yukon – symbolizes the creative spirit of Yukoners. The active offer concept is a cornerstone of the Yukon 2014-2018 Strategic Plan on French Language Services, which the Government of Yukon has developed in consultation with the Francophone community. The government announced increased investments in the 2014-15 Yukon budget to implement the Plan and further expand the offering of services in French to more sites in Whitehorse and in Dawson City. Employability assistance services adapted to the needs of the Nunavut Francophone Community THE GOVERNMENT OF NUNAVUT (GN) employability assistance services are now available to the Francophone community of Nunavut, thanks to a partnership established between the GN and Carrefour Nunavut, a Francophone economic development organization active in the field of employability since 2010. Under this new partnership, Carrefour Nunavut will promote the programs and services of the Department of Family Services, including Employment Assistance Services, Adult Learning and Training Supports, Training on the Job, the Self-Employment Option, and Financial Assistance for Nunavut Students. On the latter point, Carrefour Nunavut intends to actively promote funding programs to improve access to postsecondary education and to better support Francophone youth entering the labour market. On the one hand, this new partnership will strive to reduce the barriers to access to the GN programs and services in the field of professional development and, on the other hand, will ensure a provision of services that is culturally adapted to the needs of the Nunavut Francophone community, in keeping with the requirements of the Official Languages Act of Nunavut. | 623de1cc-e24b-4fde-b831-d2e940fb2e28 | https://cmfc-mccf.ca/wp-content/uploads/2021/03/Newsletter-June-20144.pdf | HuggingFaceFW/finepdfs-edu | Technology is changing rapidly and it looks like blockchains and cryptocurrencies hold much potential. Governments around the world are aware of this: since last year, the government of the Netherlands has run many pilots to test what integrating blockchain technology can mean for them. While blockchain technology can significantly improve the administrative process of the government, there are also some other aspects that I'm not that keen on. The most important aspect is, as you might suspect, tax collection. If you read this, you probably don't like to be coerced into contributing to an immoral and inefficient system (in other words, taxation is theft). Let's see what the Dutch government has been up to.Collecting tourist tax via the blockchain Last year, the Dutch government looked at the possibility to use blockchain technology to collect tourist taxes. In the Blockchain Pilots report, they say that the municipality of Rotterdam - that's where the test took place - lost € 400,000 of tourist taxes due to the emergence of platforms such as Airbnb that don't take taxation into account. In the pilot, they looked at the option to remove the entire tourist tax all together and make it voluntary. Wait... VOLUNTARY TAXES?! Yeah, in this test case they thought about it. When I dug a little deeper into the reports, however, I found some other clues. When looking at the details of the test case, it wasn't just about collecting taxes that the government currently miss out on in fiat currency, but also missed taxes in Bitcoin. The government envisions the following situation:Step one: a hotel or person receives a booking of one of their rooms. Step two: they accept the booking. SourceStep three: the hotel or person automatically pays the tourist tax in either fiat or Bitcoin. A script should be integrated in the platform tha... | <urn:uuid:39944313-b5cf-49dd-a1a9-ccfca2afcf17> | https://coin.fyi/news/steem/governments-co-opting-crypto-is-bad-news-for-liberty-minded-people-looking-at-dutch-gov-blockchain-experiments_6zwk8n | HuggingFaceFW/fineweb-edu | Santa Fe, NM – A key federal agency that manages water supplies around the US has come out with a report that paints a dark picture of the impacts of climate change in the West. The predictions were presented in a field hearing for the Senate Energy Committee in Santa Fe on Wednesday, April 27, 2011. The hearing was arranged by New Mexico Democratic Senator Jeff Bingaman, who chairs the committee. The Bureau of Reclamation report confirms what the scientific community has primarily been saying: temperatures will continue to rise, and droughts will become more frequent and more severe in the US Southwest. Jonathan Overpeck, co-director of the Institute of the Environment at the University of Arizona, told Bingaman that scientists have been watching the storm track shift away from the Southwest at an unexpected rate. "And we're not sure why," Overpeck said. "But it appears that Mother Nature, this movement north is occurring at a faster rate than the models suggest it should be. And that could be because the compounding influence of stratospheric ozone depletion, or it could be a lack of sensitivity in the climate models to the greenhouse gases." Overpeck stressed that if the trend continues, New Mexico's snowpacks will be greatly reduced in coming years, deepening the state's drought. New Mexico State Climatologist David Dubois said the last three months were the state's second driest since records have been taken, and also stressed that there needs to be more information-sharing of on-the-ground measurements between farmers and policymakers. Bingaman said he wasn't surprised by the severity of the reports he heard. "I think it further confirmed the impression that I have developed over several years which is that we have a serious issue dealing with the climate which we have yet to adequately wake up to or address," said Bingaman. The Bureau of Reclamation report on the climate is available at USBR.gov | <urn:uuid:95aa9325-41df-405c-91a0-a6f78155be36> | http://kunm.org/post/senate-hearing-santa-fe-paints-dark-picture-climate-change-impacts-southwest | HuggingFaceFW/fineweb-edu | Home > Crew 161 > Crew HSO Report Sol # 11 Crew # 161 Crew HSO Officer: Natalia Glazkova 1) The air in the Hab is very stuffy (especially when all 6 crew members are all together) and this causes crew members to feel very sleepy in the evening, tired and sometimes even a little dizzy. Also headaches appear sometimes. Rather then that everything is fine. 2) Also there is an unknown car standing in front of the Hab for at least 1 hour by now. We have a feeling they have been using the internet and we didn't realised it from the very beginning. Natalia Glazkova Crew HSO/Biologist | <urn:uuid:d1f058f8-d1b1-464e-bbec-f69c46a66931> | http://desert.marssociety.org/home/crew-161/0120-hsoreport | mlfoundations/dclm-baseline-1.0-parquet | SDLC stands for Software Development Life Cycle and is also known as the Application Development Life-Cycle. SDLC describes the phases (often used in IT and Systems) of planning, creating, testing, and deploying a process or information system. There are different types, or more accurately, different elements of types of SDLC models used. The most common ones are Waterfall, Iterative, Spiral, V-shaped as well as the Agile model. System Development Lifecycle (SDLC) As I’ve mentioned in a previous article, Tools to Create Effective Project Plans, I’ve used many different SDLC models for a variety of projects, including helping start-ups with business plans, building marketing strategies, supporting change management, developing IT solutions as well as building and tracking e-commerce sites and social media campaigns. Regardless of which SDLC model you use, there are six key stages in the SDLC cycle: - Development and Testing - Documentation, and; The beauty of the more agile SDLC models (excluding Waterfall and V-Shape) is through the methodology; you can go backwards and forwards between steps and adjust where necessary. “The Waterfall model is the pioneer of the SDLC processes.” Softwaretestinghelp.com The Waterfall model is a Sequential model as the software development processes are split into phases and each phase has to be completed before the next step can be taken. A step-by-step overview of the phases is as follows: Requirement analysis, system design, implementation, system testing, system development and system analysis. Introduced in 1970 by Winston Royce, the model works well when implemented in a stable environment and it is best used for smaller projects. If your needs are straightforward the Waterfall model will yield the best results but it is not right for big jobs requiring agile changes. The Iterative Model “During software development, more than one iteration of the software development cycle may be in progress at the same time.” Defense Systems Software Development According to Andrew Powell-Morse over five decades ago the US Air Force and NASA worked together to develop X-15 hypersonic aircraft. They began by following an Iterative design process and the positive results of this prompted NASA to implement an Iterative SDLC model for their software development. The Iterative model differs from the rigid stages of the Waterfall model and is described as a cyclical process, rather than a step by step one. There’s the initialisation phase at the start and the deployment at the end and in many small steps in between which may be repeated and fine tuned including: Planning – requirements – design – implementation – verification and evaluation. Because this model is agile and quickly implemented this helps to show up any functional or design flaws early on in the process, but it’s not suitable for small projects. It is also worth noting that as not all requirements are gathered in the beginning of the entire life cycle it can be heavy on resources, management and budget. The Spiral Model “The Spiral is a risk-driven model which means that the overall success of a project highly depends on the risks analysis phase.” Dmitry Gurendo Using the Spiral models involved both sequential and prototype processes. It is a complex model and best understood by first being broken down into four main quadrants: - Planning Phase - Risk Analysis Phase - Engineering Phase - Evaluation Phase. The model is known as Spiral because the development processes repeatedly passes through these stages and each iteration is called a Spiral. During the Risk Analysis in Phase Two, for example, all the four phases – planning, risk analysis, engineering and evaluation are repeated. When working with the Spiral Model, “Team members try to gather the product objectives, requirements (e.g. Business Requirement Specifications or BRS, System Requirement Specifications or SRS), alternatives in design, etc,” explains Dmitry Gurendo, “In the subsequent spirals; all requirements are generated according to the customer’s feedback. Thus, permanent communication between the customer and project management is crucial.” Use of the Spiral Model is recommended for large projects where software requires continuous risk evaluation and changes. Although development can be fast, Spiral can also go on infinitely. The time during the Risk Analysis Phase is too detailed for low-risk projects and the planning, resetting objectives, risk analysis, and prototyping needs to be carefully managed with users being involved early on with the prototyping tools and subsequently at every other stage. “As the industry has evolved, the technologies have become more complex, increasingly faster, and forever changing, however, there remains a set of basic principles and concepts that are as applicable today as when IT was in its infancy.” Geeks For Geeks Also called the Verification and Validation model, the V-Shaped Model is an extension of the Waterfall model, with testing stages adhered to during each development phase. On the one side of the model are the Verification phases with the Validation phases on the other side, these are linked by coding phase which gives the model its “V” shape. Testing in the V-Shaped Model is done in a hierarchical perspective so what it’s needed by the project team, for example, informs the high level and detailed design phases. As each of these phases is completed the requirements, they are defining become more and more refined and detailed. Detractors of the V-Shaped Model say it puts too much emphasis on testing, particularly during the test planning phase, which leads to testing being “squeezed into tight windows” at the end of development when initial phases have taken longer than expected but the date of implementation has to be the same. Supporters argue that over time the V-Shaped Model has changed and with proper understanding it can support flexibility and agility throughout the development process. It is interesting to note that the V-Shaped Model is, in some areas, being adopted by the medical device industry. This, according to Barriers to Adopting Agile Practices When Developing Medical Device Software, is because it leans towards the principles of documentation, maintaining traceability and regulatory compliances. “Agile methodologies were developed as a solution to the challenges of the traditional Waterfall model of software development and the traditional project and team management principles.” Jacob Aliet Ondiek In Jacob Aliet Ondiek’s article, 12 Agile Manifesto Principles, he unpacks how there was a shift towards more agile methodologies by prioritising the following: - More focus on individuals and interactions above processes and tools - Correctly built software over vast amounts of documentation and, - Client collaboration over contract wrangling, and; - Valuing responsiveness to change instead of adhering to a rigid model. In fact, in Utah, USA in 2001, 17 software developers actually put together The Agile Manifesto to define their basic principles and from this emerged different Agile methodologies including (with reference to Smartsheet’s Comprehensive Guide to the Agile Manifesto Scrum) the dynamic systems development method (DSDM), crystal clear, extreme programming (aka “XP”), adaptive software development and feature-driven development. The Agile Model does as it says and has agile back and forth communications between the cores phases of: Requirements, architecture and design, development and test and feedback. Interestingly, the developers of the Manifesto back in 2001 saw the model as something to be used by software development teams develop code more efficiently but now a lot of the Agile Model methodologies are being used across a variety of different businesses. I’ve found what Dave Sharrock, VP of Agile42, says to be true of our consulting business as well: “We’re seeing more and more [agile-oriented consulting business] being brought in by business managers or leadership teams with the need to bring in the whole product portfolio – the product development process – into an agile way of working.” Jainita Khatri, Managing Director, Prana Business Consulting About Prana Business Consulting Prana Business Consulting is a marketing partner to your business. Using omni-channel principles, Prana builds a connection between your brand and your client. Prana drives high performance and tangible results in Marketing, Branding, CRM and Social Media. Prana leverages industry specialists to deliver customized solutions for baby, beauty, health and wellness brands, locally and internationally. Prana is a level 1 BBBEE certified company. Phone: +27 (0) 11 794 1409 / + 27 (0) 83 414 9796 | <urn:uuid:a52dd238-9b23-4830-ac41-2698399df4b9> | http://pranabusinessconsulting.com/category/business-process-optimisation/ | HuggingFaceFW/fineweb-edu | Post M2M General The present that sci-fi imagined Wednesday, 01 August 2012 1966's American sci-fi show Star Trek followed the space adventures of the crew of the starship U.S.S. Enterprise in the 23 rd century. The future imagined by Gene Roddenberry also worked the other way and inspired real world scientists and engineers to achieve technological advances similar to those shown in the series. Roddenberry envisioned the technology that many captains of the many Enterprises would use in the franchise, devices that nowadays are as mundane as a mobile phone, tablets and touchscreens, among many technologies. But before Star Trek, authors from the golden age of science fiction were surprisingly precise when they drafted the technology of the future, how machines would interact with each other and with humans. Acknowledging this, Intel has been looking for sci-fi writers to help predict future consumer tech and explore through science-based fiction and video conversations with scientists and sci-fi authors. After all, imagination is the engine of innovation, and of course, this also applies to M2M technology. What follows is a recollection of how literature's science fiction masters envisioned what would be M2M. Reality catches on fiction Wireless communication ,a fundamental technology for M2M, was envisioned even before, in 1923, and it was none other that one of sci-fi founding fathers, H.G. Welles. Even before, in 1899, the same author imagined a very early concept of a networked society, a very early concept of what a connected world of people and machines might be. Later, other authors would further on the idea of how machines would communicate. We are familiar with smart transport solutions like OnStar's system to remotely stop the car in case it was robbed, which is something created only a few years ago. But the idea is much older: the first reference of this kind of technology is believed to be the one referenced in A Plague of Demons, by Keith Laumer. The writer calls it the Police Control-Override, but the core idea is very similar: "I nudged the car into motion, steering between the two wide-shouldered, lean-hipped trouble boys. One whipped out a three-inch black disc - a police control-override. A red light blinked on the dash; the car faltered as the external command came to brake." Smart buildings are not something new when it comes to literature. Recently deceased sci-fi mastermind Ray Bradbury, author of Fahrenheit 451, drafted an early concept of what certainly looks like a smart building in his novel The Illustrated Man: "They walked down the hall of their soundproofed Happylife Home[…] behind them, in the halls, lights went on and off as they left them behind, with a soft automaticity." Other authors like Robert Heinlein and Phillip K. Dick put some thought on these "intelligent homes". Many more writers would further the ideas that dreamers like Dick, Heinlein, Bradbury and many others during the new wave of science-fiction of the sixties, when others like Gene Roddenberry would pick up the torch and dare to imagine a world of connected machines at the service of mankind. * I, Robot - Isaac Asimov. * Neuromancer - William Gibson. * Ubik - Phillip K. Dick. * Snow Crush – Neil Stephenson. * The man who sold the moon – Robert Heinlein. * The shape of things to come - H.G. Wells. * The Illustrated Man – Ray Bradbury. Telefónica m2m team | <urn:uuid:65d8ea04-48cc-4af2-80e7-8cbfc067d31d> | https://m2m.telefonica.com/m2m-media/m2m-downloads/detail/doc_download/94-the-present-that-sci-fi-imagined | HuggingFaceFW/finepdfs-edu | Take the 2-minute tour × In the Chinese book for beginners by Bellassen, it is stated that 国 cannot be used alone: it doesn't have a meaning on its own, and thus the word country/fatherland is 国家 and not 国. However... I am surprised by the question 你是哪国人? (still in Bellassen's book). Would it be possible to ask 你是哪国家人吗? Are there other uses where 国 can be used alone, while still meaning country? edit: the word country/fatherland is indeed 国家 as stated in the answer below, and not 家国 as I first wrote. share|improve this question 3 Answers 3 up vote 4 down vote accepted You probably mean 国家 instead of 家国. 家国 doesn't exist. 你是哪国家人吗 is not correct (nor is 你是哪国家人), but you can say 你是哪国家的人 or 你是哪国家的 (meaning: from which country are you). In 你是哪国人, 国 is not really on its own. You can treat 哪国人 as a unit (which is a short form for 哪国家的人). In oral Chinese 国 is seldomly used on its own (but every character however has a meaning, and 国 on its own also means country), but is used in for example 国内 (inside this country, typically used to mean within China, 内 means inside) or 国旗 (national flag, 旗 means flag). The list of such examples is long. share|improve this answer Did you mean "In oral Chinese 国 is seldomly used on its own?" – deutschZuid Aug 14 '12 at 22:15 In linguistics, 国 is what is known as a bound morpheme. It carries grammatical meaning, but does not exist independently as a standalone word. Note that you may still see 国 as a standalone word in written language sometimes. This may be sometimes employed to give the writing a "classical" feel, since 国 in Classical Chinese was not a bound morpheme. – Claw Aug 14 '12 at 23:03 @Claw, is there a "degree of bound"? Compared to the morphemes that can never be used alone (e.g. 们), 国 doesn't seem completely bound to me, as 国与国之间 sounds valid but not a bit "classical". Another example is in colloquial lines like 天国就是天上的国. – NS.X. Aug 14 '12 at 23:18 @Claw Why aren't you on here? :) – Alenanno Aug 15 '12 at 15:53 家国 is not so common as 国家, but it does exist. It means home and the country or just country. It often appears on classical Chinese poetries. – Fivesheep Aug 15 '12 at 18:03 国 is an abbreviation for 国家. The latter loosely translates to "national family." If you were talking about a country as a concept, you'd say"一个国家." But if you were talking about specific countries, you'd use 国as an "abbreviation" after a specifier: 德 国, "Deutschland," or Germany. Or 法国, France. share|improve this answer When used alone (like in a noun phrase), 国家 and are interchangeable, but there is a idiomatic tendency to use a word's multi-character form to make the sentence flow more "stable" (I am sure there is a concept/terminology for this but I don't know). For example, 一个国家, as a noun phrase, sounds stable and complete. 一个国 is not wrong but doesn't sound stable like something should follow. If you say 一个国，一个家，一个民族 then the rhythm is satisfied and the phrase is now complete. When there are more and more characters in a phrase, the stability requirement of each single word is less important, so 国与国之间 and 国家与国家之间 both sound natural. In words that contains (e.g. 国旗), you can't replace it with 国家 (i.e. 国家旗 is not a word) simply because words are not free form. 哪国人 can be seen as a word (as opposed to phrase) meaning 哪个国家的人. share|improve this answer i really like your explanation. I didn't know the concept of rythmical stability in Chinese. – Stephane Rolland Aug 14 '12 at 21:03 @StephaneRolland, after reading Claw's comment I realized my answer was merely superficial observation and the root explanation should be the 'bound morpheme' concept. – NS.X. Aug 15 '12 at 8:20 @NS.X.: The word you were looking for is prosody. You're not incorrect; prosody does play a role in whether speakers choose a polysyllabic word over a monosyllabic one, and it probably did play a role in the formation of bound morphemes in modern Mandarin (though the loss of the final consonants -p -t -k -m from Middle Chinese played a much larger role). Chinese: A Comprehensive Grammar by Yip Po-Ching has a full chapter devoted to prosody in modern Mandarin. – Claw Aug 15 '12 at 17:57 Your Answer | <urn:uuid:afd1b005-cf67-4f8b-b597-8f260b6bb738> | http://chinese.stackexchange.com/questions/1967/%E5%9B%BD%E5%AE%B6-vs-%E5%9B%BD-when-can-%E5%9B%BD-be-used-alone?answertab=active | mlfoundations/dclm-baseline-1.0-parquet | How many have you found yourself locked out, stuck with a visiting friend who has to wait on the curb cause you aren't able to get them a key yet, left out in the cold with a lost key and locksmith, or any number of other unfortunately common circumstances? As long as people use physical keys—we're going to run into some unfortunate problems. And while KeyMe won't solve all of those, it comes as close as you're going to get for now. What does it do? Takes a scan of your house key and generates coded instructions that any locksmith or key maker will be able to read, so you can make a copy of your key anywhere in the world, no matter what situation you find yourself in. The code contains one line that instructs with blank to start with and another line with a series of numbers that dictate the depth of the key's teeth. Once you've saved your key, you can even share the instructions with a friend if need be. Why do we like it? Getting in once you've found yourself locked out can be preposterously expensive—but normally you have no other choice but to cough up the dough. Now, though, assuming you have the foresight to store your keys' info, you'll be ready to go without paying a ridiculous price, and you won't even have to spend time waiting for the locksmith. Scanning the key is free, but retrieving the information to make a new one costs $10, which isn't cheap, sure, but it's still a hell of a lot cheaper than calling in a professional. Of course, with something like this there will be safety concerns, but keys aren't really the safest of security devices in and of themselves. Now, this certainly doesn't help the situation, but depending on how often you misplace your keys, the convenience could seriously outweigh the risk, as long as your careful about what you leave lying around. Thinglist, Download this app for: iOS; Free, $10 per retrieval The Best: It's like always having a spare set of keys The Worst: Someone a little more criminally minded could use this tech for evil | <urn:uuid:17daaecc-088b-4dff-9335-c08204dbd7f8> | http://gizmodo.com/or-you-could-do-what-i-do-and-install-one-of-those-on-y-1093209999 | mlfoundations/dclm-baseline-1.0-parquet | Ripple bulls at inflection point XRP price has been on a tear lately as it has more than tripled since late March. However, considering the overall cryptocurrency market being overextended, the remittance token might be due for a correction. XRP price remains indecisive XRP price spiked 100% from April 4 to April 6, creating a flag pole. The consolidation in the form of a pennant that ensued after the initial leg up created a bull flag pattern. The technical formation forecasts a 50% upswing, determined by measuring the flag pole’s height and adding it to the breakout point. This consolidation saw a breakout on April 10 at $1.05, which signaled the start of a new uptrend to $1.58. Since breaking out of the pennant, XRP price has surged nearly 42% to $1.50 but failed to hit its target at $1.58. If the remittances token manages to muster up bullish momentum, it might head toward the immediate supply barrier at $1.68, created by the Momentum Reversal Indicator’s (MRI) breakout line. XRP/USDT 4-hour, 12-hour chart XRP/USDT 4-hour, 12-hour chart The bullish momentum that more than tripled XRP price seems to have disappeared, resulting in consolidation. Additionally, the MRI has printed a cycle top in the form of a red ‘one’ candlestick on the 12-hour chart, forecasting a one-to-four candlestick correction. Hence, a potential spike in selling pressure might push XRP price toward the 78.6% Fibonacci retracement level at $1.16. This move would indicate a 19% downswing. If the said barrier fails to absorb the bearish momentum, the Ripple price could be in for a 13% correction toward the MRI’s State Trend Support at $1. Inline Feedbacks View all comments | <urn:uuid:ecbb7ce6-42f0-44f5-afac-83e3644c0334> | https://bigwigfx.net/ripple-bulls-at-inflection-point/ | mlfoundations/dclm-baseline-1.0-parquet | Python intrusion-detection Open-source Python projects categorized as intrusion-detection | Edit details Python intrusion-detection Projects • Fail2Ban Daemon to ban hosts that cause multiple authentication errors Project mention: Intrusion detection vs. intrusion prevention: the beginner's guide to IPS and IDS | | 2022-01-21 Host-based Intrusion Prevention Systems defend a single server. Fail2Ban blocks IPs that are making too many SSH attempts. • maltrail Malicious traffic detection system Project mention: How do you run self-hosted software? | | 2021-02-15 last docker discovery : maltrail ( , about to be moved from VM to docker) • Scout APM Python intrusion-detection related posts Project Stars 1 Fail2Ban 6,810 2 maltrail 4,339 Find remote jobs at our new job board There are 30 new remote jobs listed recently. Static code analysis for 29 languages. | <urn:uuid:2b1ff33d-7891-4b37-8292-fadcb42fec8a> | https://www.libhunt.com/l/python/topic/intrusion-detection | mlfoundations/dclm-baseline-1.0-parquet | The Cloning of Dolly Dr Jamie Love 27 November 1997 -2009 © I've decided to make cloning one of the first topics in this first issue of Science Explained because the folks who created Dolly are acquaintances of mine. (Yes, I am a name dropper, aren't I?) A few kilometers from my home lives Dolly, the world's first mammalian clone; not counting identical twins. (They're clones too.) What makes Dolly different from identical twins is that she was grown from a cell taken from an ADULT animal! Many bright, well-respected scientists said it couldn't be done. Dr Ian Wilmut, who is in charge of the lab that created Dolly, admits that he had his doubts. However the hard work and imaginative thinking of his staff made it all possible. How did they do it and what did they do? First some background to teach you the basics of developmental biology. An oocyte (pronounced "oh-oh-sight") is an unfertilized egg and it has no chance of developing into an animal unless it's fertilized. A recently fertilized egg is called a zygote (pronounced "zye-goat"). Funny how the last two letters in the alphabet describe the first stage of an individual animal. For example, a frog zygote normally divides and grows into a complete animal, a tadpole. Later that tadpole will develop into an adult frog. A cell from a frog's gut should always remain a frog-gut-cell because it has "differentiated". Differentiation is the natural process whereby cells specialize into a certain kind of cell. As a frog embryo grows and develops its cells differentiate into nerve cells, blood cells, fat cells and many other different kinds of cells. That's what differentiation is all about. Differentiation is important because without it an animal could never be anything but a blob of unspecialized cells. As a mass of embryo cells divide and differentiate they "create" the animal. This incredible process of differentiation turns zygotes into animals and it's all controlled by the genes. Although the exact process is still poorly understood, scientists agree that differentiation must have something to do with changes in the nucleus of cells. You may recall that the nucleus is the part of the cell containing the genetic material (the DNA all coiled up in organized structures called chromosomes). What do frog cells have to do with Dolly? Like most scientific "breakthroughs" the earlier work done by others provided the foundation on which to try something new. Decades ago a fellow named Gurdon developed the method of "nuclear transfer". This is a two step process. First he used delicate needles and a good microscope to suck out the nucleus from a frog oocyte, producing an "enucleated oocyte". (That's an oocyte without a nucleus.) With the genetic material removed the enucleated oocyte would not divide or differentiate even when fertilized. That was no surprise. (A cell is nothing without its nucleus.) But the results from Gurdon's second step shocked a lot of people! He used the same equipment and skill to transfer the nucleus from a frog's gut cell into an enucleated oocyte. That's nuclear transfer, the transfer of a nucleus from one cell to another, creating a "new cell" with a different nucleus. Many of these new cells which Gurdon created behaved like a zygote. They divided and divided and divided just like a normal developing embryo, producing a ball of cells. And this ball of cells differentiated! Nerve cells, skin cells, blood cells appeared just as they would in a normal embryo. After the normal length of time Gurdon had tadpoles! Because the tadpoles had all come from the gut cells of the same adult, they all had the same genetic material. So they were all clones, identical twins of each other. But unlike normal identical twins they were made from differentiated cells. Gurdon had proven something that many scientists had argued about. He proved that differentiation was REVERSIBLE. Gurdon's method of nuclear transfer turned back the hands of time, in a developmental sense. Gurdon's method of nuclear transfer made clones from adult cells! Naturally this got a lot of scientists thinking about cloning. But there were two problems. First, Gurdon's nuclear transferred tadpoles never grew into frogs! Other folks repeated his experiments and got similar results. Nuclear transfer couldn't clone frogs from frog cells; all you got were tadpoles. No one knew why. Even today, no one knows why the tadpoles made by nuclear transfer die instead of growing into frogs. Weird. The second problem was that Gurdon's method seemed to work only with frogs (or perhaps I should say "tadpoles"). When scientists tried nuclear transfer with mice, cattle or indeed any mammal, they got nowhere. The "new cells" sometimes divided a few times, but not for long and none of them differentiated properly. You just couldn't clone mammals. By the early 1980's most scientists accepted the idea that something very special allows frogs to be (partially) cloned (into tadpoles). Whatever that process was, it was not found in mammals. The textbooks made it very clear. Differentiation was (sort of) reversible in frogs but not in mammals. So what exactly did the scientists at the Roslin Institute do? Well, Keith Campbell, a fellow working for Dr Wilmut, thought that maybe the cell cycle had something to do with this cloning trouble. The cell cycle is often described as a circle of cell life and division, but I think that can be a bit confusing for some people, so let's try to remember that by "cycle" we mean it happens again and again. A cell divides into two "daughter cells" and both of these cells live, "eat", grow, copy their genetic material and divide again producing two more daughter cells. Because each daughter cell has a copy of the same genes in its nucleus, daughter cells are "clones" of each other just like identical twins. This "twining" goes on and on with each cell cycle. This is a natural process. The cell cycle fascinates biologists. Very fast cell cycles occur during development causing a single cell to make many copies of itself as it grows and differentiates into an embryo. Some very fast cell cycles also occur in adult animals. Hair, skin and gut cells have very fast cell cycles to replace cells that naturally die. And cancer is a disease caused by cells cycling out of control. It's no wonder that biologists think the cell cycle is so important. But there is a kind of "parking spot" in the cell cycle called "quiescence" (pronounced "kwee-S-ence"). A quiescent ("kwee-S-cent") cell has left the cell cycle, it has stopped dividing. Quiescent cells might reenter the cell cycle at some later time, or they might not. It depends on the type of cell. Most nerve cells stay quiescent forever. On the other hand, some quiescent cells may later reenter the cell cycle in order to make more cells. (For example, when a young girl starts to develop breasts.) Many biologists (including myself) thought that to make a clone you should transfer the nucleus from a fast dividing cell. It made sense because fast cycling cells are exactly what makes an embryo grow. Besides, the gut cells used to make the tadpole clones were fast cycling cells. Many biologists tried to make clones by transferring the nucleus from fast dividing cells but all of those experiments were unsuccessful. (I tried injecting the fast growing cells from chicken feathers into hen eggs in the hope of cloning birds, but it didn't work.) Keith (Dr Campbell) thought about it in a different way. He wondered if a quiescent nucleus would be a better donor. True, it was not cycling (that's what makes it quiescent, by definition) but Keith thought maybe that's what the nucleus needs for it to be successfully transferred. Maybe the cell needs time to "rest" before starting to make a whole new animal. Maybe the nucleus needs time, lots of time, to get its DNA in order. Maybe...? Maybe quiescent cells would work! So they tried it with cells from sheep. The folks at the Roslin Institute do a lot of work with sheep as part of their partnership with a company called Pharmaceutical Proteins Limited Therapeutics (PPL Therapeutics). Earlier they had made transgenic sheep (sheep with human genes transferred into them, but that's another story). They used cells from an adult sheep's mammary (breast) glands for the "donor" nucleus. They grew the cells in tissue culture, an artificial situation that is commonly used in laboratories to grow large numbers of cells in bottles. Tissue culture allows scientists to fiddle with the cells and alter their characteristics. That is exactly what Dr Campbell did. He "starved" the cells of important nutrients and the cells stopped growing and dividing. They became quiescent. (Keith knew they would become quiescent when starved of nutrients because other researchers had proven that years ago; but few folks really cared because who needs quiescent cells?) And then he made Dolly? Yes, but creating Dolly was not easy. Using techniques similar to those used 20 years ago by Gurdon, Bill Ritchie (a technician working with Dr Campbell) removed the nucleus from an oocyte that was collected from a Scottish Blackface ewe. (Ewes are female sheep. The Scottish Blackface breed is a common breed of sheep in Scotland easily identified by its black face.) Oocytes have a "shell" of proteins and fibers (called the zona pellucida) and it is through this protective coat that Bill injected the nucleus from a quiescent mammary cell into the enucleated oocyte. That cell nucleus was from a different breed of sheep called a Finn Dorset, which happens to be a pure white breed of sheep. He then used a tiny pulse of electricity to cause the new nucleus to fuse with the enucleated oocyte's cytoplasm. (Cytoplasm is the solution inside the cell.) This electricity also helps "kick start" cells into "activity" so they are more likely to divide. This new, fused cell (containing the Finn Dorset mammary cell nucleus in the cytoplasm of a previously enucleated Blackface oocyte) was transferred into the reproductive "chamber" of a Blackface ewe (the same breed that provided the oocyte). Bill and his fellow researchers than repeated this process 276 times! That's right, 276 times. I told you this wasn't easy. After 148 days, a normal length of time for the Finn Dorset breed of sheep, Dolly was born (5 July 1996). As you can see she is a healthy, normal looking Finn Dorset. (Dolly's the wee one on the left) born to a Blackface ewe (her mom's on the right). This proves that Dolly wasn't the product of a sneaky mating; Dolly's Blackface mom could not produce a white faced sheep no matter who was the father. (It has to do with the genetics of sheep breeds.) But just to be sure, the scientists DNA "fingerprinted" Dolly and her "mom" and proved that Dolly's DNA matched the cells from the tissue culture, not the cells from the ewe that gave birth to her. Dolly is a normal (Finn Dorset) sheep. Contrary to the reports in some of the trash newspapers, she has not eaten her keeper or her fellow sheep. She does not shoot laser beams out of her eyes or talk. Dolly is a friendly, normal, healthy sheep who enjoys being petted, especially if you have some food in your hand! You may be surprised to learn that clones had been made at the Roslin Institute before, but those clones were made from the nucleus of embryo cells not adult cells. If you have a comment or question about cloning feel free to send a Letter to the Editor. I can't promise to answer all your questions or address all your comments, but I'll post a few particularly good ones here. Return to the Science Explained Homepage. | <urn:uuid:e535cf7b-9138-4c21-9cb6-bfeda859a2f5> | http://www.synapses.co.uk/science/clone.html | mlfoundations/dclm-baseline-1.0-parquet | DARPA’s Ground X-Vehicle Technologies (GXV-T) program is all about improving safety, effectiveness, and mobility of combat vehicles of the future. The Reconfigurable Wheel-Track technology developed by a team from Carnegie Mellon University National Robotics Engineering Center consists of innovative shape-shifting wheels that turn into triangular tracks to adapt to different terrains. | <urn:uuid:c2f29c41-fa89-4c81-bcdc-23756c27fcaf> | http://nurdology.com/darpas-combat-vehicles-to-get-shape-shifting-wheel-track/ | mlfoundations/dclm-baseline-1.0-parquet | Can Dogs Eat Pork Bones? My dogs follow me around the house, no matter what I’m doing. Even at dinner time, they would be by my side keeping a close eye on what I’m doing. I was having pork for dinner the other night, and in the corner of my eye, I could see my furry friends watching me in the hope of getting a piece of the meat or even the bones. But this got me wondering, can dogs eat pork bones? Is it safe for them to do so? No, dogs should not eat pork bones because the bones can easily splinter and crack when they chew on them, and this can lead to various problems when swallowed. If a dog swallows a splintered or cracked pork bone, then it can lead to intestinal blockages, and it can even damage the esophagus or intestines. In some cases, a dog might even choke on a pork bone when he attempts to swallow it, especially if it is a small dog. What To Do If Your Dog Has Eaten A Pork Bone As a dog parent, I know it can be very difficult to keep an eye on a dog and monitor its every move. Sometimes, they get into situations that we always try to avoid, like eating something that they should not eat. If your dog has eaten a pork bone, or if he has just started chewing on it, take it away from him immediately. If you suspect that he has swallowed a piece of the bone, then it is very important that you contact a vet immediately. You need to monitor your dog closely for signs that show that he is not feeling well due to swallowing the bone, and might be suffering from an intestinal blockage. These signs include: • Vomiting • Loss of Appetite • Irregular Bowel Movements • Excessive Drooling As mentioned, it is a good idea to consult with a vet immediately, especially if your dog is showing any of the signs mentioned above. Can Dogs Eat Pork Rib Bones? No, dogs should not eat pork rib bones because the bones can break easily, and this can cause serious harm to a dog when swallowed. Swallowing a splintered or cracked pork rib bone can damage a dog’s mouth, esophagus, or intestines and it can even be a choking hazard. So, it is best to keep your pup clear of pork rib bones. What Bones Are Safe For Dogs? The good news is that there are other types of bones that your dog can safely enjoy. In fact, a lot of raw uncooked bones are safe for dogs as long as they are big enough so that your dog can’t swallow them. Cow or Bison bones are the safest bones for your dog to eat, and your pup can safely chew, eat, and digest them. It is important though that you still monitor your dog closely when giving him any type of bone. There is always a risk of the bone getting stuck in his throat, or being too hard to chew, which can cause damage to his teeth. If you’re concerned about your dog’s teeth getting damaged from eating bones, then you should consider giving him raw chicken, turkey, lamb, or beef bones as these are fairly soft and easy to chew on. What Are The Benefits Of Feeding Bones To Your Dog? Feeding your dog the right type of bones can actually be very healthy for him. Bones are, of course, rich in calcium, and this helps with the formation of bones and teeth, nerve impulse transmission, cell signaling, muscle contract, and blood coagulation in dogs. Chewing on a bone can also provide mental stimulation to dogs, and it is known for helping dogs with anxiety, which in turn helps with high blood pressure and heart disease. But, as mentioned previously, there are always risks involved in feeding your dog bones. If you are not sure whether or not to give your dog bones, talk to a vet to get some clarity. As you can see, you should never feed your dog pork bones. These bones can easily break or splinter and can cause serious problems to your dog when he swallows them. The biggest problem with swallowing a cracked pork bone is that it can cause intestinal blockages, and this can cause your pup to become very ill. Small dogs might even choke when attempting to swallow a pork bone. If you suspect that your pup has swallowed a splintered pork bone, then get in touch with a vet immediately. | <urn:uuid:00e4a1f8-3642-48f2-b25e-502ae55bb516> | https://jackrussellterrierdog.com/can-dogs-eat-pork-bones/ | mlfoundations/dclm-baseline-1.0-parquet | What is the Minimalist 50:20:30 Budget System (and how to use it) The 50:20:30 Budget is gaining popularity, particularly among minimalist populations. This budget helps you break down your goal spending into 3 categories making it easier to keep to your budget than a budget which is broken down into 5 or more groups. Keep reading to learn more about the 50:20:30 budget and how to use it! This post may contain affiliate links What is the 50:20:30 Budget? The 50:20:30 budget is a simplified budget utilizing 3 categories: essentials, savings, and personal. I have been using this strategy on and off since I graduated high school and it has been the most effective budget strategy I have used yet! It is not only easy to use and simple but encompasses all possible spending without much categorical overlap to worry about. There are no excuses. 50 | Essential Spending The first rule or spending category is essential spending. This category refers to your bills and any other expenditures that cannot be avoided and occurs regularly. This might include topics such as housing, utilities, groceries, transportation, insurance, electricity, internet, phone bill, etc. These bills do not include pleasure subscriptions, or anything extravagant and unnecessary. Remember that your essential spending is half of your income, so spend it wisely! 20 | Savings The second budget rule is that 20% of your income is to be saved. This might include a savings account, emergency fund, retirement fund, or it might go toward paying off debt. Building up a savings is incredibly essential in case of emergencies, debt issues, retirement, etc. I can personally attest that my savings have saved me, financially, on several occasions! If you aren’t currently saving money regularly, open a savings account and get started today! 30 | Personal Spending The final rule of 50:20:30 budgeting is that you get to spend 30% on anything else. This includes all recreational or entertainment purchases. This money can be set aside to go on vacation; it can also include clothing, hobbies, home decorating, gym membership, recreational, and entertainment expenditures. Here is where you can go crazy (so long as you remain within your budget) because this category is all you. Whatever your heart desires, this is the part of your budget you utilize to get it. Be responsible, but so long as you remain within 30%, you’re golden! Are Your Finances Ruining Your Life? How do I use the 50:20:30 Budget? What makes the 50:20:30 budget so successful is the fact that it is minimal and simple. It’s easy to remember the rules, and it’s easier to keep track of, regardless of how you track your spending. My favorite way to track my spending is through Mint. Mint connects to all of my accounts, allows me to set my budget, savings goals, and even pay my bills. I highly recommend checking out Mint, its free! Another great way to use this budget is to keep an excel spreadsheet of your spending or keep a written record in your planner or journal. Just knowing what the budget is, is not enough, you must now track your spending and be sure to adhere to the budgeting rules. Get started on your budget, I’d love to hear how well it works for you! | <urn:uuid:967acb0b-c9c7-45ca-a61b-f843ede57b4c> | https://elizabethjournals.com/502030-minimalist-budget-system/ | mlfoundations/dclm-baseline-1.0-parquet | Benefits of Organic Soap for Sensitive Skin Benefits of Organic Soap for Sensitive Skin - TRIVESA SRL When it comes to skincare, using the right products can make all the difference. That is why today, we want to talk to you about the benefits of organic soap for sensitive skin. If you are prone to redness, inflammation and dryness, you should really watch out from all the toxins that can trigger an unwanted reaction. In fact, it should be a priority of yours to minimize the amount of these chemicals. A safe way to do so, is to use only certified organic soaps that are made of natural and plant-based ingredients. On top of being the responsible choice for the planet, it is guaranteed to help your skin stay healthy and beautiful. Are you having doubts about what type of skin you are? Read here to find out how to know. Why use organic soap if you have sensitive skin There is a reason why your skin feels dry after you’ve washed it with an industrial soap. These cleansers can strip it of its natural oils, leaving it more vulnerable. Especially if you have sensitive skin. It’s different when you use chemical-free and natural products. This way, you can enjoy the benefits of organic soap for sensitive skin. There is nothing like nature to take care of sensitive skin. Simple, plant-based ingredients are the best solution to nourish and moisturize your skin, while cleansing it. In fact, while they are more delicate, they also offer many incredible properties that are good for your body. Aloe, olive oil, peppermint, shea butter, avocado, almond, and the list goes on. These are all ingredients that offer antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, antibacterial, softening and smoothing qualities. And most of all, they are a much safer and more delicate alternative to chemicals. So, you really don’t need anything else to cleanse and protect your sensitive skin. Benefits of organic soap for sensitive skin: know your label To get the benefits of organic soap for sensitive skin, you must be sure to use only certified organic soaps. Be wary of marketing tricks that camouflage products that contain some natural ingredients, as completely natural. There is a big difference. Look for legit certifications on the label. This is important because a certified organic soap must be made of 100% organic ingredients. Why is it a good thing? Because non-certified organic skincare product can have been produced with herbicides, chemical fertilizers or pesticides. On top of being bad for the environment, these substances can have an impact on the final product, making it harsher on your skin. Especially if it’s sensitive. Are you looking for safe and certified skincare products? Try our Écrin de Fleur certified organic soaps. They all have the ECOCERT and Nature Progres logos on their labels as proof that they contain only safe, sustainable and natural ingredients. In fact, they are also cruelty-free and vegan soaps. Keep following our blog if you want to get more information about the benefits of organic soap for sensitive skin. ècrin de fleur certified organic soap Laisser un commentaire Veuillez noter que les commentaires doivent être approvés avant d'être publiés | <urn:uuid:ccd3d67d-f79d-4531-9eca-540234162ba9> | https://www.ecrindefleur.com/fr/blogs/notizie/benefits-of-organic-soap-for-sensitive-skin | mlfoundations/dclm-baseline-1.0-parquet | Since May 5, India and China have been witnessing tense border skirmishes and standoffs in Sikkim and Eastern Ladakh along the un-demarcated and disputed Line of Actual Control (LAC). Initially bringing back memories of the Doklam standoff in June 2017, the recent clashes resulting in the deaths of 20 Indian soldiers have seemed to hearken back to the more serious clashes, such as those at Nathu La in 1967 and even the 1962 border war. As the tensions continue, analysts and commentators have provided numerous unconfirmed reasons for the renewed standoff and what has been seen by some as surprising Chinese aggression. This analysis has seen a growing focus on domestic factors, such as a potential weakening of President Xi’s position in the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) after COVID-19 or precipitating actions in India’s foreign policy as possible causes for the standoff. However, this article argues that the primary reason for China’s aggression is security and strategic concerns related to India’s road and infrastructure construction along the LAC rather than domestic factors. Explanations for the Current Border Standoff The primary reason given for the current India-China border standoff(s) is India’s building of roads and infrastructure along the LAC. China’s more favorable topography, metaled roads and other infrastructure to deploy troops and military equipment in the event of a war with India, has given it a strategic advantage on its side of the border. India is well aware of this disadvantage and under Prime Minister Narendra Modi, has prioritized building infrastructure to negate China’s advantage and is fast catching up. China perceives Indian construction, especially the nearly complete 255 kilometer Darbuk-Shyokh-Daulat Beg Oldie (DBO) (DSDBO) all-weather road, as attempts to mitigate China’s strategic and military edge along the disputed border, which prompted China to try to prevent India from further road building. China perceives Indian construction, especially the nearly complete 255 kilometer Darbuk-Shyokh-Daulat Beg Oldie all-weather road, as attempts to mitigate China’s strategic and military edge along the disputed border, which prompted China to try to prevent India from further road building. The DSDBO road connects Leh in Ladakh to the DBO military airbase, and allows troops and equipment to move to the border much faster. Control over the DSDBO road requires control over a ridgeline of the Galwan valley—the site of the deadly clashes on June 15—and control of the valley would provide access to Aksai Chin (where the Tibet-Xinjiang highway passes). West of Daluat Beg Oldie is Gilgit-Baltistan, part of Pakistan Administered Kashmir and part of the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC). This has been one of the main reason’s for India’s objections to CPEC as it claims it is passing through disputed territory. China is anxious that India can use its strategic leverage in this area to disrupt CPEC which could have a disastrous impact on Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) and China’s socio-economic and political stability. As the flagship project of the BRI launched by Xi Jinping and with ties to China’s own security concerns in Xinjiang, threats to CPEC may also be viewed as threatening China’s unity, sovereignty, and territorial integrity concerns. The DSDBO road also raises China’s apprehensions regarding Aksai Chin, which China occupied after the India-China war in 1962. The Indian government’s revocation of Article 370 and statements on restoring Pakistan administered Kashmir and Aksai Chin into the Indian federation have exacerbated China’s distrust of India and India’s intentions. Additional analysis for causes of the border conflict has pointed towards recent Indian actions as a source of China’s resentment, such as support for an independent inquiry into the origins of COVID-19 and sending two members of parliament to Taiwanese President Tsai Ing-wen’s virtual swearing-in ceremony in May. As recent chair of the World Health Organization (WHO), a separate argument is that China is also trying to pressure India not to back a change in Taiwan’s status in the World Health Assembly (WHA). However, India has been one of more than 100 countries calling for an independent inquiry. On Taiwan, India has held to a “one China” policy and shown reluctance to support Taiwan’s WHA bid. Finally, some have also pointed to India’s recent change in foreign direct investment laws meant to prevent “opportunistic takeovers” of Indian companies which is reportedly aimed at China. However, while China has invested around USD $30.7 billion in India between 2005-2019, this is still a fraction of its global investments of approximately USD $2 trillion. Domestic factors affecting Foreign Policy A separate argument has looked at China’s aggressive posturing at the border in the context of growing assertiveness in Chinese foreign policy in the wake of COVID-19. Indeed, there is precedent for China using external conflicts to distract from domestic issues—take for instance the 1962 border war in the wake of Mao’s disastrous “Great Leap Forward” setting him on a precarious position within the CCP. Similarly, one of the reasons cited for Deng Xiao Ping going to war with Vietnam in 1979 was diverting attention from China’s harsh economic conditions. There is no doubt that Xi’s botched tackling of COVID-19 in the initial stages has undermined his position in the CCP and punctured his regime legitimacy built on technocratic competence. It has “underlined the worst facets of the Chinese command and control system of governance since President Xi assumed power,” and poses a significant threat to Xi’s personal legacy. Some have pointed to the current border standoff as part of a more aggressive foreign policy driven by fears of international perceptions of weakness in the wake of COVID-19. However, the LAC is a different story. The logistics required for a build-up of military equipment and amassing troops at a high-altitude and in multiple locations along the LAC starting as early as April indicate that plans for a greater military presence in the region may have been in the works for some time. Further, China’s downplaying of the crisis, and media reports indicating that China wants to deescalate suggest China is not trying to use the current standoff to galvanize nationalism to buttress domestic public support. While China has in recent years mobilized anti-U.S. or anti-Japan sentiment for domestic support, it has not done the same with India. Since the end of the Cold War and especially in the twenty first century, China has used nationalism against the United States or Japan and to support ambitions to its East. The Chinese government has for instance fanned nationalist sentiments against Japan as part of the Senkaku/Diaoyu Islands dispute, and used the 1999 NATO bombing of the Chinese embassy in Belgrade to fan anti-U.S. sentiment. More recently, China has blamed the United States for the U.S.-China trade war and used nationalism against the United States to divert attention from the economic slowdown as Chinese netizens have voiced anger at U.S. attempts to contain China’s rise. The logistics required for a build-up of military equipment and amassing troops at a high-altitude and in multiple locations along the LAC starting as early as April indicate that plans for a greater military presence in the region may have been in the works for some time. Although there is compelling evidence that China has used external conflicts to drum up nationalism domestically, India does not seem to fall into this category—particularly as China remains focused on competition with the United States and territorial disputes to its East. While the nationalist Global Times—which caters more to an international audience—has published in-depth stories condemning Indian actions on the border, other Chinese language publications such as Xinhua, China Daily, and the People’s Daily mention the dispute in short reports in the back pages. Chinese netizens appear far more focused on Taiwan and Hong Kong which are considered more pressing issues. China does not use nationalism against India because it does not consider India as a major security threat or a peer competitor. China’s main competition is with the United States, which it aims to surpass economically and militarily by 2049. India, on the other hand, is considered an inferior power due to the gaps in capabilities, such as economic and military power, between the two countries. China has not shied away from conveying this asymmetry to India in diplomatic meetings and interactions, and through government mouth pieces like People’s Daily, the Global Times and others. Simply put, China believes India is not worthy of great power status. China has, however, started paying more attention to India due to the latter’s burgeoning strategic relations with the United States. Plans for road infrastructure near the LAC, and the Modi government’s more nationalist stance have only deepened China’s distrust as well as concern and suspicion of India’s aims on the border. An Indian Army spokesperson stated that Indian media’s “speculative and unsubstantiated reporting about these [military and diplomatic] engagements” is not helpful in resolving the border issue or current standoff. Similarly, specious diagnosis/analysis of the current India-China border standoffs and skirmishes may lead to policies or actions that further deteriorate bilateral relations, create misperceptions, and exacerbate mistrust between the two countries. As India considers its China policy for the future, an understanding of the motivations behind Chinese actions is critical. Conclusions that China is acting out of domestic weakness or in retaliation against India’s foreign or economic decisions, may risk leading “hawks” in each country gaining a bigger voice in decision-making or contributing to more military adventurism. A hardening of the positions in the two countries is likely to have negative repercussions not only on the India-China bilateral relationship but also for regional and even global security and stability. Image 1: Ashok Boghani via Flickr Image 2: STR/AFP via Getty Images | <urn:uuid:57002c11-c391-4c4e-b101-cd495a525bd4> | https://southasianvoices.org/the-disputed-roots-of-the-current-india-china-border-standoff/ | HuggingFaceFW/fineweb-edu | Cricket Coaching Equipment Cricket coaching equipment can be used to help you coach a more successful and skilled cricket team. To effectively coach your team, you will need items that help your team practice. Practice drills can help to improve both the physical fitness and overall skill when playing an actual cricket match. Your coaching equipment should be updated or replaced as needed. It’s important to show your team that they are playing with quality equipment. It teaches that that only a quality effort is acceptable. 1. Bat and ball. The cricket bat and ball are used by your players to practice the game of cricket. While on the field, complete cricket drills with your team that involve bowling and using the bat. This way, all of your cricket players will develop the skills necessary to be successful. 2. Whistle. A whistle is essential cricket coaching equipment. Use it to communicate with your players while they’re on the field. Let them know what various whistle combinations mean, such as one short blow for stop or two short blows for huddle up. 3. Target. A target will help improve the accuracy of your cricket players. Whenever they are in control of the cricket ball, they should always be aiming for a target during the practice drills. Watch your players as they aim for the target and correct their form immediately afterward. 4. Video camera. Recording your cricket players as they complete practice drills, such as bowling drills, can be a huge asset when coaching cricket. The cricket coaching equipment you need will vary based on the type of camera you use, but a standard video camera with a screen and playback function should be sufficient. Show your players their tapes, as well as those of exceptional drills completed by their teammates. 5. Uniforms. Encourage your cricket players to wear their team uniforms during practice. This helps them get used to playing while wearing the official uniforms. It can also help to promote a spirit of camaraderie and togetherness that will help you coach a more successful cricket team. What Others Are Reading Right Now. | <urn:uuid:0fc8fb70-9a58-4ae1-95f6-4ba112b6a0b4> | http://www.mademan.com/mm/cricket-coaching-equipment.html | mlfoundations/dclm-baseline-1.0-parquet | Gathering for Listening When you join the meeting ask for help if you're not sure what to do * Check that you are unmuted and have video, if you're using video. Check your volume. * Make sure you have a copy of the Gathering available. * Check your "name tag" in your picture box. Ask the facilitator to help you change it if needed. Chalice Lighting We light this chalice to shine on our time together. In its light we celebrate the relationships and understanding we are creating in this place and time. May our sharing be deep. Introductions Tell us about yourself in 4 or 5 sentences. Here are some possibilities. ``` I grew up in … I have been … (teacher, parent, engineer, artist, caregiver, salesperson …) I am interested in … (gardening, reading, social justice, painting … ) My family or support system … (partner, children, friends ) In this covenant group I hope … ``` Silence, holding ourselves and each other in silent support Business * Covenant Group Basics. * Zoom Basics (Speaker / Gallery view, Rename, Muting, Chat. Speaking in turns.) The Covenant I commit myself: * to come to meetings when I possibly can, knowing that my presence is important to the group * to let the facilitator know if I will be absent or need to quit * to share responsibility for good process by watching how much time I take to speak, noticing what is going on for others, and considering problems if they occur * to do the reading and thinking about the topic ahead of time * to not gossip about what is shared in the group, and tell only my own story to others * to honor the safety of the group by listening to what others share with an open heart * to refrain from cross-talk, judging, giving advice, or advocating a specific view * to share as deeply as I can when it is my turn and to stay on the "I-message." Shared Readings The human soul does not want to be fixed, it wants simply to be seen and heard. Parker J. Palmer You will never be able to escape from your heart. So it's better to listen to what it has to say. Paulo Coelho When we are committed to doing the work of love we listen even when it hurts. bell hooks Autism makes you listen louder. It makes you pay attention on an emotional level as well as an intellectual level. Jace King The greatest gift we can give another is our presence. Thich Nhat Hanh Listen to yourself and in that quietude you might hear the voice of God. Maya Angelou A woman once described a friend of hers as being such a keen listener that even the trees leaned toward her, as if they were speaking their innermost secrets into her listening ears. Linda Hogan Love is the quality of attention we pay to things. J.D. McClatchy There is a you telling yourself a different story of you. Listen to her. Paidraig O'Tuama Most people need a few experiences of simply being listened to before they can really believe that just listening is enough. In time, we discover that to be listened to is a way of being loved, and that listening is a way of being loving. Christine Robinson Introducing the Process for Deep Sharing/Deep Listening Rounds of Sharing. There are two rounds of sharing. During each round, one person speaks at a time. Speakers share from the heart as deeply as they are willing, reflecting on the topic and their feelings, thoughts, and experiences. The job of listeners is to listen deeply, keeping their hearts open. Round 1. Each person in the group takes about five minutes to reflect aloud on the topic and the preparation materials. They speak without interruption. The facilitator starts. Everyone who wants to speak gets one turn, in any order they choose. Anyone may pass. As each person finishes speaking, there are a few breaths of silence. Then the next person speaks. People can speak in any order. Round 2. This is an opportunity to share additional reflections and thoughts about what others have shared. Speakers still focus on their own thoughts, feelings, and experiences and remain mindful not to judge another's sharing, give advice, or advocate a position. Everyone who wants to speak gets a turn, and everyone is mindful of time so that each person has an opportunity to speak. Deep Listening and Sharing Round 1. Share reflections on listening and the preparation materials. Round 2. As time allows, share additional thoughts or reflect on what others have shared. Closing Circle Extinguishing the Chalice We extinguish this flame and we remember the warmth of our community, the light of our wisdom, the generosity of our sharing. We keep these in our heart until we meet again. Bell or Chime Announcements | <urn:uuid:bb1493bc-9cab-47b3-8c1e-7f439a1febcf> | https://uuabq.org/wp-content/uploads/2021/09/Listening-Gather-2021.pdf | HuggingFaceFW/finepdfs-edu | Property of a currency whereby two units can be substituted in place of one another. Fungibility means that two units of a currency can be mutually substituted and the substituted currency is equal to another unit of the same size. For example, two $10 bills can be exchanged and they are functionally identical to any other $10 bill in circulation (although $10 bills have unique ID numbers and are therefore not completely fungible). Gold is probably a closer example of true fungibility, where any 1 oz. of gold of the same grade is worth the same as another 1 oz. of gold. Haven is fungible due to the nature of the currency which provides no way to link transactions together nor trace the history of any particular XHV. 1 XHV is functionally identical to any other 1 XHV. Fungibility is an advantage Haven has over Bitcoin and almost every other cryptocurrency, due to the privacy inherent in the Haven blockchain and the permanently traceable nature of the Bitcoin blockchain. With Bitcoin, any BTC can be tracked by anyone back to its creation coinbase-transaction. Therefore, if a coin has been used for an illegal purpose in the past, this history will be contained in the blockchain in perpetuity. This lack of fungibility means that certain businesses will be obligated to avoid accepting BTC that have been previously used for purposes which are illegal, or simply run afoul of their Terms of Service. Currently some large Bitcoin companies are blocking, suspending, or closing accounts that have received Bitcoin used in online gambling or other purposes deemed unsavory by said companies. Haven has been built specifically to address the problem of traceability and non-fungibility inherent in other cryptocurrencies. By having completely private transactions Haven is truly fungible and there can be no blacklisting of certain XHV, while at the same time providing all the benefits of a secure, decentralized, permanent blockchain. | <urn:uuid:b2ff12ef-50c3-48ca-9682-b9218ed4da27> | https://havenprotocol.org/knowledge/fungibility/ | HuggingFaceFW/fineweb-edu | The Athabasca tar sands of northern Alberta contain an estimated 175 to 200 billion barrels of recoverable oil — the largest known hydrocarbon deposit ever discovered. This estimate is based on using existing technologies. Using newer technologies, as much as 2.5 trillion barrels of oil might be recovered — but the costs would be enormous. Development of the tar sands has already begun, with three large companies — Suncor, Syncrude, and Albian — producing large quantities of crude, and six more massive projects in the early stages. As the soaring price of oil makes these resources financially more viable, many other leases are being explored. An estimated US$100 billion is expected to be spent on tar sands development over the next 20 years. Though this may sound like a few lifetimes of oil, there are serious social and environmental issues related to the extraction of this bitumen: the provincial boom-and-bust cycle that is being created, including labour, infrastructure and materials shortages; the water intensivity and resulting pollution; and the significant volumes of natural gas it requires. These concerns raise the question of whether the current rate of expansion (planned growth from one million barrels a day to six million barrels a day, most of it destined for export) is reasonable or sustainable. In terms of the social costs, the dramatic expansion of the tar sands development has created labour shortages, exacerbated by infrastructure shortages in Fort McMurray, that increase the cost of living in the area. The boom is also causing materials and construction costs to shoot up across the province. The rapid pace of extraction has also led to inequities between the provinces, with Alberta in an embarrassment of riches, part of which is being thrown at local infrastructure spending, escalating the boom. In the absence of any plan, provincially or nationally, for pacing the development to maximize the jobs and returns to the province over the long term, there is instead a bonanza, using foreign workers and union-busters in the short term, while offering royalty holidays. The natural gas situation is even less sustainable. Conventional natural gas has already peaked and is on the decline. This is a key source of power generation for Alberta. As the tar sands consume the gas, the province is already returning to coal for power, and losing value-added jobs in the petrochemicals sector. As that clean source of fuel expires, the tar sands are turning to non-conventional gas sources, all of which have higher social and environmental costs: the Mackenzie Valley pipeline, coal-bed methane, and in-situ (extraction of the gas from the bitumen). There has not been adequate public debate on the impacts of coal-bed methane, in spite of the huge landscape impacts of the well-intensive drilling and pipelines needed, and the likely impact on water tables in an area already short on water. The in situ strategy is no better, as it has huge carbon dioxide emissions, while the tar sands operations are already among Canada’s largest industrial polluters.Most of the oil to be taken from the tar sands will go to the United States. In effect, the Athabasca deposits will be the centrepiece of a new continental energy grid. Its main purpose will be to provide a secure supply of fuel for the American industrial and military machines. Canadians are already paying a steep price for feeding the voracious American addiction to the dwindling world reserves of oil and gas. Given that the rapidly increasing exports of Canada’s oil and gas to the U.S. puts our own energy security as a nation in jeopardy; that Canada, despite being a petroleum-producing country, is already forced to import nearly half of the oil its people need; that Canada has less than a 10- year supply of conventional oil and natural gas remaining; that most of the tar sands oil is earmarked for export to the U.S., and most of the natural gas from the North is also intended for the U.S. market or to fuel extraction of the tar sands crude — the continuation of current energy policies is clearly not in the national interest. There may be ways of developing the tar sands that could contribute to Canada’s long-term energy needs, including the inevitable transition to renewable energy sources. But, shockingly, there is no coherent national or provincial energy policy to address this need. Nor is the federal or any provincial government conducting the research or public consultation needed to formulate policies for meeting the world energy crisis — or even for assuring an adequate ongoing supply of energy for Canadians. To be viable, any decisions or policies on energy we arrive at should be based on a complete understanding of all aspects of the tar sands development. It is a project that brings with it enormous economic, social, and ecological costs, as well as raising concerns about our role as suppliers of oil and gas — and soon electricity and even water — to feed the ravenous U.S. appetite for Canada’s resources. This report makes the following recommendations to both federal and provincial governments: Athabasca tar sands development - Place a moratorium on further expansion of the tar sands development until a public inquiry is conducted and completes its report on the social and environmental impacts of this mega-energy project, appropriate provincial plans are in place to maximize jobs over the long term and address the provincial energy and water needs as well as sustainably pace the development, and there has been proper national debate on the implications for Canada’s peace-promotion policy and national energy security; - Rescind direct government subsidies to the oil industry in the tar sands, and replace the minimal 1% royalty rate with a more realistic higher rate; - Place a moratorium on construction of the proposed Mackenzie gas pipeline until outstanding Aboriginal land claims, threat of permafrost damage, and the waste of energy involved in using gas to fuel the production of another form of energy have been satisfactorily settled; and - Transfer to the government of the Northwest Territories the constitutional powers to set its own fair rate of royalties on the extraction of natural gas in its jurisdiction. National Energy Policy Measures - Give the National Energy Board a clear mandate to oversee Canada’s overall energy needs, and arm it with the policy and regulatory tools required to carry out this mandate; - Restore the previous practice of maintaining a national 25-year supply of oil and gas reserves to meet domestic needs; - Take steps to increase Canadian and provincial ownership of the oil and gas industry in Canada (including stopping the sell-off of Petro-Canada) and develop new forms of public ownership and control; - Obtain (like Mexico) an exemption from NAFTA’s proportional sharing clause, or, failing that, withdraw completely from NAFTA; - Conduct a public review of energy price setting practices with a view to restoring the capacity of our governments to regulate energy prices and, if necessary, roll them back; and - Initiate, with the provinces, a national strategy and timetable for reducing dependence on fossil fuels, conserving our remaining supplies of oil and natural gas, and massively increasing investment in renewable energy alternatives such as solar and wind power. | <urn:uuid:51bfba30-0a59-4479-a0d0-2afff4765412> | http://www.parklandinstitute.ca/fuelling_fortress_america | HuggingFaceFW/fineweb-edu | Syracuse's Christmas Music Station Irene Cara Irene Cara Irene Cara is best known as a singer of movie themes, though she has also maintained an acting career since childhood. Raised by Latin American parents in New York City, she made her Broadway debut in 1967 (at age eight) in the musical Maggie Flynn, and returned to the stage several years later with... Share Email Bookmark | <urn:uuid:fee20ba3-5946-4efa-b3e1-98406e0b892a> | http://www.y94fm.com/iplaylist/artist/16290/ | mlfoundations/dclm-baseline-1.0-parquet | What is Synthetic Marijuana and Is it Legal in New Hampshire? Synthetic Marijuana Synthetic Marijuana In the last few years, a new drug has gained in popularity, particularly with youth. It has also generated a great deal of attention and concern from law enforcement authorities, the medical community, and drug enforcement personnel. The drug is essentially a synthetic form of marijuana commonly known as Spice. It looks plant based like marijuana, but contains a number of chemical compound additives. The drug resembles potpourri to the point that it is often referred to as potpourri on the street. Sold in packets or small jars, it is labeled and known by names such as: K2, Yucatan Fire, Moon Rocks, Skunk and other harmless sounding names. The likeness between Spice and actual marijuana is the primary source of the danger it can pose for users looking for a marijuana substitute or marijuana-like high. It can be smoked, made into a drink, or even mixed with marijuana. The plant based ingredients can range from lettuce or other random plant materials that do not pose any real or known hazards. Spice, or synthetic marijuana is often marketed as a natural substance because of the plant based ingredients. However, it is not natural. The synthetic additives make the effects of Spice very unpredictable. Health Risks The synthetic additives used in the dug can affect everyone differently and have been shown to be more potent that the cannabinoid compounds found in marijuana. There are also a wide variety of chemicals that can added. This means users have no definitive way of knowing what they are ingesting or smoking. The potency or presence of those chemicals can vary from packet to packet or brand to brand. While the mind altering effects common with marijuana are typically felt with Spice, other unexpected effects can be present and lead to health problems. Some Spice users have experienced anxiety, paranoia, hallucinations, vomiting, seizures, rapid heartbeat, kidney damage, and even heart attacks. The number of calls to poison control centers and emergency room visits related to Spice have risen dramatically in the last few years. This increase in calls and medical emergencies also helped to raise public awareness of the drug and its dangers. Legal Action The government has taken steps to ban the use of Spice; which was initially very easy to buy in stores, such as gas stations and convenience stores. It was difficult to regulate a few years ago because it was labeled as “not for human consumption”. Also, as the DEA acted to ban one chemical found in Spice, that chemical would be quickly replaced with another synthetic compound. This would render the ban useless. However, despite the struggles to keep up with the technicalities and alterations manufacturers would implement to avoid regulation, the DEA banned Spice drug in July 2012. Up until then, it could be bought anywhere by anyone. With the federal ban, the chemical additives in Spice are classified as a controlled substance and therefore, it is an illegal drug. As with any controlled substance, the possession, manufacture and sale of such substance is against the law and carries criminal penalties. By Attorney Richard Monteith | <urn:uuid:ebc92c01-0c0d-4d3b-b722-33668417db29> | https://attorneymonteith.com/what-is-synthetic-marijuana-and-is-it-legal-in-new-hampshire/ | mlfoundations/dclm-baseline-1.0-parquet | RACIAL OPTICS AND ITS INFLUENCE ON TEACHER CURRICULAR DECISION-MAKING IN SECONDARY SOCIAL STUDIES by JULIE MUHLENFELD-JOHNSON CORY CALLAHAN, COMMITTEE CHAIR PRENTICE CHANDLER LAURA EDWARDS TRACEY HODGES LISA MATHERSON ELIZABETH WILSON A DISSERTATION Submitted in partial fulfillment of the requirements for the degree of Doctor of Philosophy in the Department of Curriculum and Instruction in the Graduate School of The University of Alabama TUSCALOOSA, ALABAMA 2022 Copyright Julie Kristin Muhlenfeld-Johnson 2022 ALL RIGHTS RESERVED ABSTRACT Social studies teachers represent various political, racial, and ideological perspectives. It remains unclear how social studies teachers choose curricula and balance the racial representation they present and the implications for students' racial lenses and understanding of race in the past and present. This qualitative study will have an impact on scholars as it will contribute to the existing data on the impact of teachers' race, racial lenses and perspectives, and racial pedagogical content knowledge on their curricular choices. The data collection for this study includes three extensive critical phenomenological interviews with nine participants, each reflecting on their biographical information, personal and professional experiences, reflections of their racial lens via journaling, and a document analysis of their curricula. Additionally, a survey of 6th-12th grade social studies teachers was distributed nationwide to collect data supporting the research on teachers' racial perspectives and their curricular decision-making. The findings indicate that while most secondary social studies teachers have progressive or antiracist racial optics, they often do not convey this mentality and positionality in their curricular choices, due to a variety of reasons. Scholars could use the data from this study to examine the influences of race consciousness on social studies classrooms and understand its impact on curricular decision-making as well as the long-term effects on the development and perception of America's narrative. Keywords: secondary social studies; racial optics; white social studies; critical whiteness; curricular decision making; antiracist; phenomenological interview DEDICATION Written and dedicated to my former students for what they taught me and inspired in me, and to my future students for what I hope to teach and inspire in them. | Abbreviation | Description | |--------------|-------------| | BIPOC | Black, Indigenous, and People of Color | | CWT | critical whiteness theory | | CRT | critical race theory | | K-12 | kindergarten through 12th grade education | | NCSS | National Council for the Social Studies | | WSS | white social studies | ACKNOWLEDGMENTS Great accomplishments of any one individual are rarely, if ever, a solitary effort. This dissertation, the preceding coursework, and the completion of the doctorate degree is no exception. I have had a village of support throughout this process, and I am grateful for this opportunity to acknowledge and thank them. To Ben, for your unconditional endorsements, constant affirmations, and for adjusting your own life, expectations, and finances to accommodate my dream – I am forever grateful to you. Thank you for championing me, listening to me, and never losing faith in me, even when I lost it in myself. To Scarlett and Lincoln: my journey through this arduous process has been sprinkled with your laughter and whimsy. You have kept me grounded and allowed me to keep my focus. Thank you for your patience and unconditional love during all the nights I couldn’t play with you or put you to bed. I hope and pray my work here has made some impact on your lives and that you continue to grow to become the sweetest, fiercest, and most upstanding humans you could possibly become. This education has changed me in profound and transformative ways, only second to being your mother. To my parents Mark and Diane, thank you for engaging in difficult conversations with me, thank you for your calls, and frequent check-ins to be sure I was taking care of myself. You have both sacrificed so much for my education and to ensure I became a strong, independent woman who seeks happiness, looks for opportunities, and seeks out ways to help those around me. I am because you are. To Pat, thank you for listening, babysitting, offering general respite, and having wine readily available. To Linda and Dave, thank you for loving and supporting me, my parents, and my family. Your presence in my life is significant in so many ways. To my sisters Jenny and Joy – thank you for being a constant source of support, letting me ramble about theory and coursework, sharing my enthusiasm, and for being the best friends a girl could ask for. And to my girlfriends from Chicago, Detroit, Fredericksburg, and Huntsville, thank you for the wine, for the nights out, momcations, polos, hilarious gifs, and notes of encouragement. These small gestures mean more than you could know, and those breaks in-between research and writing have been life-giving. Thank you to the participants of this study – your honesty and willingness to share yourself and your practice has been impactful in profound ways. I would be remiss if I did not acknowledge the educators who have had significant impact on my professional life. Thank you to Dr. Alan Prochaska and Mr. Jerome Mikrut for instilling in me a love of social studies education. To Dr. Alan Webb – thank you for your candor, your interest, and the care with which you pay to your craft. You made qual and quant unscary. Dr. Janie Hubbard – your courses, your mentorship, and your critique shaped my experience during this degree. I am grateful to have known you and studied under you, and you will remain ranked amongst the educators who have had a most profound impact on me. Thank you to the scholars who have produced such brilliant research that I admire and look to as a guiding source of this very necessary and difficult work: Prentice Chandler, Kimberle Crenshaw, Andrea Hawkman, Ibram Kendi, LaGarrett King, Gloria Ladson-Billings; and to Joshua Porter for engaging in thought-provoking and challenging conversation. I am forever grateful to my doctoral committee. To Dr. Cory Callahan for your directness and keeping me on a tight schedule to ensure my goals were achieved. Thank you for your encouragement, professionalism, enthusiasm and above all, the level of excellence you displayed and required of me throughout this process. I know I am a better scholar because of your example and mentorship. To Dr. Prentice Chandler – I am grateful to you for jumping into this process with me and for standing by me throughout it. I am humbled to have you on this committee and hope I have made you proud. To Dr. Edwards – thank you for working alongside me, asking difficult questions and ensuring my work was up to the highest quality. To Dr. Tracey Hodges, you have helped me in inexplicable ways, not only in the writing process but also acclimating to academia and learning to navigate myself in it. Thank you. Dr. Matherson, thank you for your diligence and for being there when I most needed you. And thank you to Dr. Liza Wilson. Your enthusiasm and support helped give me the confidence I needed when I needed it. I’m grateful for your expertise. Thank you to the band Jesus Culture for penning the song “Not Afraid,” which allowed me to overcome imposter syndrome on more than one occasion throughout this process. And above all, I give all the glory of my success to my best friend, confidant, and constant North Star - Jesus Christ. Thank you for gifting me and enabling me to be all you dreamed I could be. I hope I have not disappointed you. # TABLE OF CONTENTS ABSTRACT .................................................................................................................. ii DEDICATION ........................................................................................................... iv LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS ..................................................................................... v ACKNOWLEDGMENTS ............................................................................................ vi LIST OF TABLES .................................................................................................... xvi LIST OF FIGURES ................................................................................................ xvii CHAPTER 1 INTRODUCTION .................................................................................. 1 Background ........................................................................................................... 3 Problem Statement ............................................................................................... 4 Significance of the Study ..................................................................................... 5 Purpose Statement ............................................................................................... 6 Definitions ............................................................................................................ 8 Whiteness ......................................................................................................... 8 White Normativity ............................................................................................ 8 Whitewashing .................................................................................................. 9 White Privilege ............................................................................................... 9 White Superiority ........................................................................................... 10 White Supremacy .......................................................................................... 11 Research Questions ............................................................................................ 12 CHAPTER 2 REVIEW OF LITERATURE ................................................................. 13 Historical Background of Social Studies Education ........................................... 13 Purpose of Social Studies Education ................................................................. 17 Theoretical Framework: Critical whiteness Theory ............................................ 20 Toward a Critical Lens ..................................................................................... 22 Racial Identity and Racial Lens ....................................................................... 25 Racial Consciousness ...................................................................................... 29 Racial Unconsciousness .................................................................................. 31 Racial Subconsciousness ................................................................................ 32 Applying Critical whiteness Theory to Social Studies ....................................... 34 White Social Studies ....................................................................................... 37 Curriculum ...................................................................................................... 42 Citizenship Education and National Identity .................................................... 44 Standards ........................................................................................................ 46 Curriculum Results of Applying Critical whiteness Theory ............................. 48 Applying Critical whiteness Theory to Curricular Decision-Making ................. 53 Professional Identity ....................................................................................... 54 Teacher Beliefs ............................................................................................... 55 Pedagogical Content Knowledge .................................................................... 56 Gatekeeping .................................................................................................... 57 Teacher Autonomy and Authentic Pedagogy .................................................. 59 Controversial Topics ....................................................................................... 60 Teacher’s Race ............................................................................................... 60 | Section | Page | |----------------------------------------------|------| | Conclusion | 62 | | CHAPTER 3 METHODOLOGY | 64 | | Qualitative Research Design | 65 | | Method Overview | 65 | | Data Collection | 67 | | Developing Interview Guides | 68 | | Participants | 68 | | Participant Profiles | 71 | | Data Point 1: Interviews | 78 | | Data Point 2: Journals | 83 | | Data Point 3: Curriculum Analysis | 85 | | Data Point 4: Survey | 86 | | Data Analysis | 87 | | Interviews | 87 | | Journals | 92 | | Curriculum Analysis | 92 | | Survey | 94 | | Quality of the Study | 95 | | Ethics | 95 | | Trustworthiness | 96 | | Reliability and Validity | 96 | | Triangulation | 98 | | Limitations | 98 | Positionality and Subjectivity Statements ................................................................. 99 Professional ........................................................................................................... 99 Educational .......................................................................................................... 100 Personal ............................................................................................................... 101 Researcher ........................................................................................................... 102 Summary .............................................................................................................. 103 CHAPTER 4 FINDINGS 1: TEACHERS’ EXPERIENCES LEARNING ABOUT RACE .... 104 Educational Experiences as a Student ............................................................... 107 Secondary Education Experiences ................................................................. 107 Higher Education Experiences ..................................................................... 111 Professional Development Experience ............................................................ 114 Effective Professional Development ............................................................. 115 Ineffective Professional Development ......................................................... 117 Absence of Professional Development ....................................................... 118 Personal Experiences with Race ..................................................................... 118 As a Child ........................................................................................................ 119 Present-Day .................................................................................................... 125 Personal Interest ............................................................................................ 127 Summary of Findings 1 ..................................................................................... 129 CHAPTER 5 FINDINGS 2 – RACIAL OPTICS ................................................................. 130 Racial Optics ........................................................................................................ 131 Racial Identity ................................................................................................. 131 Racial Lens ...................................................................................................... 132 | Section | Page | |------------------------------------------------------------------------|------| | Racial (Sub/Un)Consciousness | 143 | | Racial Optics and Social Studies Curriculum | 157 | | Pedagogy | 157 | | Inclusion or Omission of Teachers’ Racial Optics in Their Curriculum | 166 | | Summary of Finding 2 | 172 | | CHAPTER 6 FINDINGS 3 – RECONCILING THE GAP | 174 | | The Responsibility of Gatekeeping | 175 | | Guidelines by District/State | 175 | | Fear and Overregulation | 177 | | Lack of Time | 178 | | Standards and Standardized Testing | 179 | | Student Apathy and Ability | 180 | | Social Studies Content | 181 | | Traditional white Social Studies | 182 | | Department and School Complications | 183 | | Collaboration Versus Autonomy | 184 | | Racism Amongst Staff? | 185 | | Summary of Findings 3 | 186 | | CHAPTER 7 INSIGHTS FROM THE STUDY | 188 | | Summary | 188 | | Limitations | 190 | | Discussion | 191 | | Implication 1: Derisory Secondary American History Courses | 191 | Implication 2: America’s Narrative is Polyracial .......................................................... 195 Recommendations ........................................................................................................... 196 Independent Educator Changes .................................................................................... 197 Departmental Changes .................................................................................................. 197 School and District Changes .......................................................................................... 198 Higher Educational Changes ......................................................................................... 198 Legislative Changes ....................................................................................................... 199 Future Research ............................................................................................................. 200 Conclusion ...................................................................................................................... 201 References ....................................................................................................................... 203 Appendix A The Eight White Identities ........................................................................ 233 Appendix B Spectrum: From Non-Racist to Anti-Racist Advocate ............................. 234 Appendix C Racism Scale ............................................................................................... 235 Appendix D IRB Approval ............................................................................................... 236 Appendix E Selection Process Form .............................................................................. 238 Appendix F Informed Consent ....................................................................................... 242 Appendix G Questionnaire ............................................................................................. 247 Appendix H Applicant Rejection Letter ........................................................................ 251 Appendix I First Interview Protocol ............................................................................... 252 Appendix J Second Interview Protocol .......................................................................... 253 Appendix K Project Implicit Race IAT Samples ............................................................ 255 Appendix L Third Interview Protocol ............................................................................ 257 Interview 3b .................................................................................................................. 259 | Appendix | Title | Page | |----------|----------------------------------------------------------------------|------| | | Anti-Racist Educational Experiences and Practices | 259 | | | Interview 3B Protocol | 260 | | | Anti-Racist Educational Experiences and Practices | 260 | | | Appendix M Journal Prompt Samples | 261 | | | Appendix N Racial Lens Document | 263 | | | Appendix O Criteria for Curriculum Analysis | 268 | | | Appendix P Rubric for Curriculum Analysis | 269 | | | Appendix Q Full Survey Questions | 270 | | | Appendix R Pathways of Teacher Certification in the United States | 284 | | | Appendix S Completed Curriculum Profiles and Rubrics for All | 285 | | | Participants | | | | Appendix T Full Survey Results for Study Participants | 303 | | | Appendix U Full Survey Results for Nationwide Participants | 335 | | Table | Description | Page | |-------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------|------| | 1 | Racial Optics Defined | 36 | | 2 | Process for Interview Data Collection and Analysis | 89 | | 3 | Process for Journals Data Collection and Data Analysis | 90 | | 4 | Process for Curriculum Analysis Data Collection and Data | 91 | | 5 | Participants’ Personal Experiences With Racial Diversity in Their Adolescence | 119 | | 6 | Participant Summary of Experience in Learning About Race | 128 | | 7 | Participants’ Resource Types for Personal Learning | 129 | | 8 | Interview Participants’ Results for Racial Consciousness | 156 | | 9 | Nationwide Survey Results for Racial Consciousness | 156 | | 10 | Participants’ Self-Identified Racial Optics Versus Data Analysis of Participant Racial Optics | 168 | | 11 | Participants’ Inclusion/Omission of Racial Optics in Their Curriculum | 169 | LIST OF FIGURES Figure 1 Racial Optics Overview ................................................................. 26 Figure 2 Racial (sub/un)consciousness .................................................. 35 Figure 4 Roulston’s Five Steps for Designing Studies With Qualitative Interviews ............... 67 Figure 5 Participant Demographics ............................................................ 72 Figure 6 Hahn’s Level of Coding ................................................................. 89 Figure 7 Participant Self-Identified Racial Optics ($n = 9$) ............................. 143 Figure 8 Nationwide Self-Identified Racial Optics ($n = 349$) ......................... 144 Figure 9 Ellen’s Commentary Reflecting Racial (Sub/Un)Consciousness ...................... 151 Figure 10 Reactions to Racially Controversial Issues ................................... 152 Figure 11 Reactions to Race Terminology .................................................. 153 Figure 12 Study Participants’ Opinions on Race/ism .................................. 154 Figure 13 Nationwide Opinions on Race/ism ............................................. 155 Figure 14 Participant Self-Reporting on Inclusion of Nonwhite in U.S. History Units .......... 160 Figure 15 Participant Top and Least Included Racial Groups in Their Curriculum ............. 161 Figure 16 Wyatt’s Curriculum Profile ....................................................... 163 Figure 17 Thomas’ Curriculum Profile ..................................................... 164 Figure 18 Wyatt’s Curriculum Analysis Rubr ........................................... 165 Figure 19 Wyatt’s Curriculum Rubric Score ............................................. 166 Figure 20 Racial Optics of Participants ..................................................... 172 CHAPTER 1 INTRODUCTION The first inauguration of the United States’ first President of Color in 2008 brought on a decade of resurgence and exposure of white supremacy, policy brutality, and viral videos of everyday (re: white) Americans demonstrating overt racism (if even unintentional) against Black Americans\(^1\). Subsequently, civil rights movements like #BlackLivesMatter\(^2\) and #ICantBreathe\(^3\) emerged in response, which then swung the pendulum back and led to the election of President Trump – bringing on further division due to his frequent controversial commentary on issues of race, gender, and nationalism. In 2020, multiple historic events occurred, including the first impeachment of President Donald Trump, the deaths of George Floyd\(^4\) and Breonna Taylor\(^5\). --- \(^1\) The writing guidelines from the *Publication Manual of the American Psychological Association* (7th ed.) indicate that because racial and ethnic groups are proper nouns, they should be capitalized. However, many critical scholars capitalize ‘Black’ and ‘People of Color’ but not ‘white’ to acknowledge the intentional community grouping of People of Color and challenge the supremacy of whiteness in American society and social studies. I stand with these scholars (Allen, 2012a, 2012b; Appiah, 2020; Crenshaw, 1988; Du Bois, 1971; Gibson, 2020; Hawkman, 2019, 2020; Price, 2019; Tanner, 2016) and publishers (AP News, Chicago Tribune, Columbia Journalism Review, Los Angeles Times, NBC News, The New York Times, USA Today, and The Wall Street Journal) and maintain that until Black, Indigenous, and People of Color receive equal treatment as whites politically, socially, economically, and educationally, I will elevate them above whites grammatically in my writing to establish and call attention to their value. I will not capitalize ‘white’ unless it begins a sentence or appears within a direct quotation. \(^2\) The Black Lives Matter organization formed in 2015 in the United States in response to the killing of an unarmed Black teenager Trayvon Martin by a community watch citizen George Zimmerman. The group has gained global recognition for calling attention to the ongoing slaughter of unarmed and undeserving Black people by non-Black Americans without legal repercussion. \(^3\) ‘I can’t breathe’ is a slogan used by Black Lives Matter and commemorate the final words of Eric Garner, an unarmed Black man killed in 2014 by New York City police. \(^4\) Unarmed George Floyd was murdered by Minneapolis officers during his arrest (handcuffed and on the ground). His death sparked global outrage and riots in protest to the ongoing murder of Black people by police. \(^5\) Breonna Taylor was a Black woman who was fatally killed by police in her home during a botched police raid. Her death was protested by the masses along with George Floyd’s during 2020 around the world. (amongst many others) which resulted in violent and nonviolent protests and counterprotests throughout the summer; and a presidential election dramatized by the ongoing and outspoken denial of the validated results by President Trump and many Republicans. These events all occurred during the global COVID-19 pandemic, which caused the deaths of nearly half a million Americans alone within its first nine months. With the country reeling from these events, 2021 began with an angry mob of pro-Trump supporters who broke past police lines and vandalized the United States Capitol on January 6. Inspired by the direct instruction of President Trump at a rally earlier that day, the members of the angry mob called for the lives of Congresspeople and Vice-President Pence\(^6\). The words of the President and the actions of those who stormed the Capitol resulted in the unprecedented second impeachment of a sitting president before he left office two weeks later, and a Congressional investigation in 2022. The commentary he made throughout his presidency on topics such as legal and undocumented immigrants, Black Lives Matter and police brutality, the defense of neo-Nazi groups protesting the removal of Confederate monuments, and Muslim travel bans exposed the continued and ongoing racial tension within the country and revealed how racism exists in nearly every aspect of U.S. society and politics. Whether he is wholly responsible or simply an agent of exposure will not be the topic under examination in this study. Rather, this study will address the social effects of Trump’s presidency – (i.e., his mannerisms, rhetoric, and policies) and its impact on the divisiveness Americans now experience. This polarization is largely based on how Americans see themselves, each other, and their country’s \(^6\) The mob and President Trump placed blame on some Congresspeople and Vice President Pence for upholding Congress’ confirmation of the election results (Beckett, 2021; Givhan, 2021). past and present. These factors have another commonality: U.S. secondary level students learn about them in their social studies education. **Background** To many, the election and reelection of America’s first Black Commander-in-Chief, President Obama, indicated the move toward – or arrival at – post-racial status in the United States (Dawson & Bobo, 2009; Love & Tosolt, 2010). President Obama’s election was a monumental step toward progress; however, the simultaneous ongoing exposure of racism within the country provided evidence against any claims of the United States as post-racial. The #BlackLivesMatter movement began in 2013 in response to the killing of an unarmed minor, Trayvon Martin, and the subsequent acquittal of his murderer. Additional police killings of unarmed Black men, women, and children caused pain and anger in the country to spread to other ongoing racial injustices, such as acknowledging and revering proslavery Confederate soldiers with monuments, flying their flag despite the Confederacy’s secession from and war with the United States, and the whitewashing of U.S. history in social studies (An, 2020; Chandler, 2009; Chandler & Branscombe, 2015; Hawkman, 2019, 2020). The counterresponse to all these actions showed the ongoing existence of white supremacy within the United States. Black, Indigenous, and People of Color (BIPOC) watched as white Americans defended, excused, or dismissed the racism of other white Americans with counterprotests in support of police with #BlueLivesMatter or #AllLivesMatter. *New York Times* journalist and Pulitzer Prize winner Nikole Hannah-Jones led a nonviolent, academic-based response to frame race education by introducing *The 1619 Project* curriculum. *The 1619 Project* provides social studies teachers and students with a complete and accurate historical curriculum for teaching about Black people within the United States starting with their forced enslavement and relocation in 1619. President Trump responded to the curriculum with an Executive Order, tasking *The 1776 Commission* to provide approaches to ‘ensure patriotic education’ funded via the Department of Education (Trump, 2020b). Both BIPOC and white Americans listened as President Trump referred to Nazi-flag-flying white supremacists as ‘very nice people’ as they protested in Charlottesville (Phelps, 2019). Some Americans (many white) considered these actions necessary, legal, and appropriate (O’Neil, 2018). However, many others found the words ‘repugnant’ and ‘horrific’ inadequate for describing these actions. More than 150 years have passed since the liberation of Enslaved People of African Descent; however, white Americans still struggle to not only eradicate their white supremacy but to even accept that it still exists. For this, the field social studies may hold some responsibility. **Problem Statement** The controversy over implementing new curricula, whether *The 1619 Project*, *The 1776 Commission*, or any other – has shown how some materials may be included while others not. President Trump’s public criticism and dismissal of critical race theory and teaching history with multiple perspectives (Trump, 2020a) have contributed to the further polarization of the country and led to state bans and legislation limiting and regulating how teachers present race. Additionally, many secondary social studies teachers struggle to address controversial issues in their classrooms and teach students how to resolve differing opinions (Hawley et al., 2016; Ho et al., 2017; Lintner, 2018). Thus, continued polarization within the country stems from secondary social studies curriculum. Social studies teachers represent a wide variety of political (Clark et al., 2020), racial representation (United States Department of Education, 2019), and ideological perspectives (Pajares, 1992; Richardson, 1996). It remains unclear how social studies teachers choose the curricula they teach in class, balance the racial representation they present, and address the implications they have on their students’ racial lenses and understanding of race in the past and present. Scholars have shared that many teachers – mainly white- regard race as a controversial topic (Gindi & Erlich, 2017; King et al., 2018; Lintner, 2018). Additionally, controversial topics and issues are increasingly not taught in social studies (Alongi et al., 2016; Ho et al., 2017; Lintner, 2018). I posit that the absence of learning how to disagree amicably and intelligently on controversial topics and neglecting to represent BIPOC equally while teaching the United States’ story have contributed to the racial strife collectively experienced in the United States. Secondary social studies teachers, scholars, and students need more awareness of their racial lenses, and the lenses via which they present U.S. history. Such awareness in social studies classrooms could be a means of balancing out rather than contributing to the racial strife in the United States. **Significance of the Study** This study will impact scholarly researchers, as it will contribute to the existing data on the impact of a teacher’s racial lens and racial pedagogical content knowledge on curricular choices. Scholars could use the data from this study to examine the influences of racial lenses on social studies classrooms and understand curricular decision-making. Similarly, policymakers could benefit from this knowledge when reexamining and determining the learning standards for students and teacher education programs. Regardless of the study’s outcomes, social studies teacher education programs must include race analysis and impact. The actual data on students’ understanding of race (Duncan et al., 2020) will be the approach used in this study to inform policymakers of the appropriate and needed learning outcomes for secondary social studies students and preservice teachers. The stakeholders impacted by this study will include practitioners, students, and members of society. Teachers of all subjects could use this study’s findings to become more aware of their racial optics and racial pedagogical content knowledge. This study’s literature review includes the various aspects of the construction and implementation of critical whiteness and how to critically examine personal perceptions and content. Teachers could convey such knowledge directly to their students. Teachers must become aware of critical whiteness theory (CWT) and the phenomenon of white social studies; in turn, students will learn from educators whose critical pedagogies (Giroux, 1992) have undergone appropriate reflection. Students who take on educators’ knowledge base that has undergone critical examination and diversification will apply that lens to their behavior, which will ideally have a ripple effect throughout generations. **Purpose Statement** According to the National Council for the Social Studies (NCSS), social studies educators must teach and shape students’ perceptions to help ‘young people make informed and reasoned decisions for the public good as citizens of a culturally diverse, democratic society in an interdependent world’ (National Council for the Social Studies [NCSS], 2020a, para. 3). However, educators have received their education in a system focused on white normativity. Therefore, they may struggle to even be aware of the racial lens they may subconsciously pass onto their students. Because eighty percent of educators are white (Geiger, 2018), the spread of white normativity in a system where it has not *intentionally* been eradicated is likely (Manfra & Bolick, 2017). Similarly, nearly 77% of the U.S. population is white (United States Census Bureau Quick Facts, 2019), and therefore it is equally likely that white supremacy/white normativity is a phenomenon in which many do not know they participate due to the related phenomenon of white privilege. The teaching of social studies in the United States is the direct means of teaching students the history of BIPOC and their various struggles for equality. Therefore, members of the social studies community must intentionally and systematically eradicate white normativity from curricula and instruction. All social studies teachers need to self-reflect and evaluate their methodology for areas of practice that might contain messages of white supremacy. The results of such self-reflection could be to eliminate white supremacy from the mentality of the country’s white youth. In theory, the eradication of white supremacy can occur as soon as one generation and for all subsequent generations going through the U.S. public education system. The nature of the content area in teaching civic education, U.S. history, and varying cultures requires the social studies community – teachers, curriculum writers, teacher educators, and researchers – to take on this responsibility. This study will be the first step in this work by focusing on how secondary social studies teachers’ racial lenses could contribute to their curricular decision-making. Chapter 1 has provided a context of race relationships within the 21st-century United States. The introduction also indicates the responsibility of secondary social studies educators to teach a racially-balanced perspective of U.S. history. Chapter 2 includes a review of the literature related to the study’s theoretical framework of CWT. The literature review also addresses curricular decision-making. Chapter 3 consists of the methodology of this proposed qualitative phenomenological interview study, followed by the data analysis. Chapters 4, 5 and 6 presents the three major results of this study, and Chapter 7 concludes with a discussion of the findings, their implications and recommendations for future research and action. Definitions It is essential to clarify the specific usage of several terms that describe white people in application of this study. Included here are the varying definitions for the terms *whiteness*, *white normativity*, *whitewashing*, *white supremacy*, and *white superiority*. Because these terms can be easily confused or conflated, it is essential to take note of their similarities and differences, and what differentiates one from the next, as they will each be distinctly used throughout this study. **Whiteness** *Whiteness* indicates a white person’s skin color in relation to racial identity. In 2003, the Human Genome Project indicated that race is not genetic (Chou, 2017). They concluded that skin color is not a biological attribute, thus making race a social construct (Bonham, n.d.; Chou, 2017). *Whiteness* is a frame of mind impacted by white skin on societal standing or worldview. What makes whiteness a unique quality is that white skin does not indicate belonging to a community of people (not to be confused with ethnicity or heritage), unlike communities that are based on skin color or ethnicity such as the Black community, the Latine\(^7\) community, or the Asian community. **White Normativity** *White normativity* presents white skin color as the standard and nonwhite skin color as the ‘other’ or marginal. White normativity occurs either intentionally or unintentionally via --- \(^7\) While the identity naming of Hispanic, Chicano/a/x, and Latino/a/x people is highly nuanced in preference based on the individual, I utilize the term *Latine* throughout this study to convey an overall inclusivity of ancestral and nonbinary designation and identity. The term *Latine* utilizes the Spanish ‘e’ to replace the ‘a’ and ‘o’ to convey gender neutrality. The term *Latinx* has been considered by some to be problematic because it can be seen as ‘language imperialism by imposing a new English word onto a Spanish word.’ (Campos, 2021) as the letter ‘x’ does not ‘honor Spanish pronunciation’ (McGee, 2022). I do entirely support the Latine community to utilize whichever word with which they most identify; but as a white woman, I feel it necessary to remain as inclusive to people of Hispanic and Latin-American decent and reverent to the Spanish language as I am able. people, corporations, policymakers, and others who present those with white skin as the ‘average’ or ‘normal’ visual seen by members of the public. *Whitewashing* is a similar activity of strategically placing white people as the dominant standard. Whitewashing is not new or unique to the United States. For example, whitewashed artwork of Jesus Christ from as early as the sixth century, such as *Christ Pantocrator*, shows Him with pale white skin (Traverso, 2018), a precedent that is often replicated, even today, with the addition of blue eyes. However, Jesus’s birthplace in the Middle East and his Jewish heritage (Swartwood House, 2020) indicate that He was a Person of Color, likely with dark hair, skin and eyes. **Whitewashing** Whitewashing has a long history in the United States via advertising, Hollywood, music, and history. Whitewashing is a tool used to create the false narrative of white normativity. *White normativity* indicates that white people are shown, depicted, credited, and heard more frequently. Therefore, members of society see whiteness as a regular occurrence; anyone nonwhite is, therefore, irregular. Kenneth and Mamie Clark scientifically proved this phenomenon’s existence when they studied Black children in the 1930s and 1940s. They found that Black girls chose white dolls from a selection of dolls ranging in skin color because they believed the white dolls to be pretty and good. Such findings indicated the harmful effects of internalized racism on young children (Patterson, 2001). The Clarks’ study contributed to the *Brown v. Board of Education* case. Sociological, educational, and psychological researchers have widely referred to the study as well. **White Privilege** While the term *white privilege* has reemerged as a cultural buzz phrase, it has deeper roots than McIntosh’s seminal 1989 essay that provided the definition used by current generations\(^8\). Du Bois (1935) described the ‘psychological wage’ (p. 597) that poor white people experienced higher social status than Black people. Du Bois (1935) contended that the benefit of their whiteness required the devaluation of Black people, that the universe belonged to white people, and that to be white is to benefit. There is a need to recognize that although the word *privilege* is part of this term, it by no means indicates that white people do not struggle or experience financial, legal, or social hardship. Rather, *privilege* indicates that white skin correlates with normativity or general ease over nonwhite skin in the United States and global society and refers to the default benefit of white skin over that of nonwhite skin. *White privilege* indicates that white skin has the advantage over nonwhite. This is why the Clarks’ study was significant, because it showed that even little girls felt that to choose white skin means a certain benefit or ease within society. This ease could take place during traffic stops, easily finding hair care products in the store, a person’s success not being considered a ‘credit to their kind,’ or receiving immediate suspicion when shopping in expensive stores or applying for loans (McIntosh, 1989). Acknowledging one’s white privilege is essential to be racially conscious and a step toward anti-racism, a topic presented later in this chapter. **White Superiority** While the concept of white supremacy has specific connotations and historical imagery, *white superiority* is not white supremacy. The goal of white superiority is not to eradicate all People of Color or a works towards a white-only world. For this study, the operational definition of white superiority is the mindset in which white people exist at the top of a false and socially- --- \(^8\) I have included a portion of McIntosh’s essay in Appendix F which lists various criteria for identifying white privilege. constructed racial hierarchy. The hierarchy knowingly or unknowingly presents white people as the default, normal, and standard, with all other racial groups less than, nonnormative, and nonstandard. The construction of this definition for this study occurred based on several scholarly works (Bell, 1987, 1988; Chandler, 2009; Kendi, 2019; Moroney, 2018). Hierarchy is the element that differentiates white superiority from white normativity (Bhandaru, 2013; Ward, 2008). Recognizing personal bias via the lens of white superiority is an essential step toward antiracism and balancing the whitewashed version of history that many Americans accept as the entire truth. **White Supremacy** White supremacy, with its robust history, reemerged on center stage when the white successor of the United States’ first Black president supported and defended the white supremacists and Confederates who fought in favor of slavery (Phelps, 2019). *White supremacy* is the belief in the hierarchical dominance of whiteness above all other races, *and* that whites must manifest their dominance socially, economically, and politically. The presentation of white supremacy can be subtle, and recognizing it requires looking for intention and meaning in more than overt signs such as Nazi flags and white hoods\(^9\). *White supremacy* can also be actively and overtly committing acts or expressions of bigotry and hate against nonwhite people. Like white supremacy, racism is an intentional and explicit phenomenon, however, research has indicated that racism and racial bias can also be implicit and subconscious phenomena (Project Implicit, 1998; Quillian, 2008; Warren, 2020). --- \(^9\) The white supremacy organization Klu Klux Klan (KKK) famously dons white hoods and robes for their meetings and when committing hate crimes against People of Color. The generations who remember Klu Klux Klan cross-burnings or Nazism in the 1940s have specific notions of white supremacy. However, society has reappropriated white supremacy via subconscious thought and unexamined intent (Saad, 2020). White supremacy is the mentality that to be non-white is to be problematic or the more subtle notion of an *us versus them* in society. White supremacy is to set apart – and to elevate -- oneself *because of* their skin tone. The subtly exists in the process of thought versus action; simply believing these concepts without the intention of speaking them out loud can still result in subconscious display (Project Implicit, 1998). Scholars have developed several continuums to measure and evaluate whiteness and racism. Amongst the most popular ones are *The 8 White Identities* by Barnor Hesse of Northwestern University (Appendix A); *Spectrum: From Non-Racist to Anti-Racist Advocate* adapted from works by James and Hodson (Appendix B), and the Stuart Center’s *Racism Scale* (Appendix C). No scale is a means of conclusively and absolutely determining a person’s level of racism or acknowledgment of their privilege. However, using scales enables people to become more informed and reflective of positionality. **Research Questions** The study has four guiding research questions: 1. How have current secondary U.S. history teachers experienced learning about race? 2. How do current high school U.S. history teachers interpret their own racial optics? 3. How have these U.S. history teachers included or omitted their racial optics from their curriculum? 4. How have these teachers been guided on decentralizing the white narrative from American history or including diversity in their curriculum, if at all? CHAPTER 2 REVIEW OF LITERATURE Understanding this study’s framework will require considering the rationale and purpose for social studies education in the United States in the past and present. Prior to examining the literature that informs this study’s theoretical framework and objective, it is essential to first understand the context of learning about United States history in secondary social studies classrooms. Historical Background of Social Studies Education In its rawest and most original form, social studies was one of the primary and most important subjects for school children at the country’s founding, even before the origin of the concept of ‘social studies.’ The government’s success after its newly earned independence required training citizens to (a) become strong and competent leaders and (b) be loyal to the nation to avoid a similar rebellion like that which just resulted in the nation’s birth (Green, 1990; Urban & Wagoner, 2014). Framers, including Benjamin Franklin, Thomas Jefferson, and Benjamin Rush, desired young citizens and would-be leaders of the democracy to have a good grasp of history, citizenship, morality, economy, geography, and government, particularly concerning the text familiar to all Americans: The Constitution. Although formalized public education was originally a benefit intended for white males, there were instances of common and special schools for the education (but not the leadership training) of minority groups like females, People with Disabilities, and BIPOC (Urban & Wagoner, 2014). The formalization of social studies as a content area occurred in the early 20th century via the National Education Association Commission on the Reorganization of the Secondary School and their 1916 Report of the Committee on Social Studies (Nelson, 2001). The 1916 report indicated that the purpose of social studies was the ‘cultivation of good citizenship’ (Dunn, 1916, p. 9). The creation of the National Council for the Social Studies (NCSS) in 1921 provided a curricular-instructional blueprint for social studies that the 1916 report did not (Thornton, 2017). NCSS officials spent the following decades molding social studies into more than just history education (Nelson, 2001). However, some scholars continued to advocate distinguishing between learning history and geography and learning social studies as a grouping of various subjects that all contribute to citizenship education. This battle continues into modern research and philosophy (Evans, 2006). Evans (2006) described subsequent movements in his book *The Social Studies Wars*, identifying five major camps in the social studies arena: - traditional historians: supported history at the core of social studies; popularized in the 1890s - social scientists: supported teaching the social science disciplines; popularized in the 1960s - social efficiency educators: support standardized techniques from business and industry to schooling and a scientifically constructed approach aimed at preparing students for various life roles - social meliorists: support reflective/issues-centered curriculum focused on social problems; popularized by Dewey in the first half of the 20th century • social reconstructionists/critical pedagogues: support social studies in schools to have a direct impact on the transformation of U.S. society Ultimately, Evans described the social studies wars as a reflection of the cultural and political divides in the United States, which have been long-term trends and not easily rectified. Regardless of the preferred approach or outcomes, there is a need to consider the contributions of theorists regarding the purpose and method of social studies. In the book *Democracy and Education*, Dewey (1916/2011) discussed the function and necessity of social studies education, specifically history and geography. Dewey indicated the need to move from studying facts and names to making connections between the past and the present: History deals with the past, but this past is the history of the present. An intelligent study of the discovery, explorations, colonization of America, of the pioneer movement westward, of immigration, etc., should be a study of the United States as it is today: of the country we now live in. (Dewey, 1916/2011, p.118) This stance enabled 20th- and even 21st-century social studies advocates to engage in rote memorization and connect historical events and their present-day implications. The development and increasing value of formal public education occurred throughout the 20th century. At that time, social studies aimed to educate and foster students who would sign up for military service, work for U.S. ingenuity and superiority during the Cold War and participate in civic activism for political and legal change during the civil rights movement. In addition, an increasing need to remain at the forefront of the world’s stage led to the educational era of standardized testing and results-based learning. The catalyst of the era of standardized testing and results-based learning was *A Nation at Risk*, a report by the Reagan administration that focused on the rising tide of mediocrity in U.S. education (Maranto, 2015; Urban & Wagoner, 2014). As a result of the report, scholars, policymakers, and educators wanted to ensure and validate the greatness of the United States with data and sought test scores as proof of America’s superiority (Maranto, 2015; Urban & Wagoner, 2014). The 1990s standards movement resulted in changes in history and social studies teaching. For most of the 20th century, school and district leaders could choose curricula. Social studies curricula could focus on single subjects like history and geography for civics education. Alternately, the curriculum could have a more comprehensive approach with social studies as an all-encompassing topic for exploring civics regarding U.S. history, world history, economics, sociology, geography, and political science (Saxe, 2004). In 1989, leaders at the Education Summit in Charlottesville approved the Goals 2000 Act, in part due to the urgent call of policymakers to improve the effectiveness of public education. The call for effectiveness included a request for definitive content for history and geography. President Clinton signed the Goals 2000 Act into law in 1994, the same year the NCSS published its independent content standards. Congress later authorized $250 million for teaching ‘traditional’ U.S. history, not social studies (Saxe, 2004). At the same time, citizenship curricula began to focus on the independent subjects of history, geography, civics, government, and economics. Such changes resulted in a continued debate in the field. At the end of the 20th century, the U.S. version of social studies inspired an ongoing discussion of the most effective approaches to teaching and learning content. Although the debate had an academic nature, several scholars dubbed the conversation *social studies wars* (Barton & Levstik, 2004; Evans, 2006; Thornton, 2017). Nelson argued that social studies at the end of the 20th century and beginning of the 21st century had the responsibility of ‘liberating students from ignorance on social topics and developing critical thinking for making social decisions,’ (p.30). Currently, no set curriculum or instructional methods are established for social studies across the United States. Districts and states – rather than a federal mandate – guide teachers on how to teach social studies. Such variation has had unintentional but profound effects on students in different states and regions: students across the country learn varied materials, content, and perspectives of history and democratic citizenship. **Purpose of Social Studies Education** The NCSS and social studies scholars have provided the current definition for social studies education. The NCSS bridges social studies scholars to schools, teachers, and students and is the driving force behind most states’ social studies content standards. In addition, the NCSS is the only active specialized professional association for social studies that provides the university requirements for accrediting teacher education programs (Council for the Accreditation of Educator Preparation, n.d.). Therefore, the NCSS determines the current purpose for social studies as far as social studies educators are concerned. The NCSS (n.d.-a) indicates that the purpose of social studies is ‘to help young people develop the ability to make informed and reasoned decisions for the public good as citizens of a culturally diverse, democratic society in an interdependent world’ (para 3). In addition, their College, Career, and Civic Life (C3) Framework indicates that the goal of social studies is to prepare students for their postsecondary futures by developing their abilities to think critically, apply concepts, evaluate sources, communicate conclusions, and take informed action (NCSS, 2016). NCSS further presented powerful teaching and learning as integrative, value-based (i.e., committed to justice, equality, and freedom), challenging, and active. Countless scholars and researchers have informed the NCSS and social studies field. Scholars have varying opinions and research on the purpose and method of teaching and learning social studies. The values of 21\textsuperscript{st}-century social studies education include tolerance, human rights, social justice, and democracy so that students can live and eventually work in a diverse society (Johnson & Morris, 2010). Barton and Levstik (2004) contended that because a goal of social studies is preparation for democracy, social studies teachers must instruct and allow students to engage in the historical inquiry of meaningful content while examining a variety of resources and viewpoints so that the students can make conclusions substantiated with their research, instead of reproducing and imparting a ‘consensual narrative of the national past’ (p.260). Because countless references exist for the scholarly work that has contributed to the purpose of social studies, particularly in the 21\textsuperscript{st} century, the following sections present only a selection of those references. Social studies has three components for guiding students in becoming effective and successful humans: democratic citizenship, global citizenship, and the skills needed to implement both and interact in the 21\textsuperscript{st} century. **Democratic Citizenship.** As with any type of government, living in a democracy has needs that its citizens must fulfill and perpetuate to foster the growth and success of society. Democratic citizenship, often synonymous with civics, presents the principles for what citizens and residents should do and believe for the functioning of the country. Ho and Barton (2020) posited that the purpose of schools is to prepare students for ‘civic action by developing the knowledge, skills, and commitments necessary to participate in the public life of a democracy, particularly as they work toward goals of social justice’ (p. 1). Principles, such as participation (e.g., military, voting, jury duty), having shared values (e.g., justice and freedom), and abiding by the law have benefits for democracy. Effectively teaching these principles requires teachers to embody and model them. Any citizenship includes the embedded fields of national history, economy, society, geography, and government. Democratic citizenship may focus on civics education, yet it does not necessarily result in excluding the aforementioned areas. Instead, democratic citizenship includes these areas to provide students with a full scope of understanding of their country and government. The most prominent and recent feature of social studies is an emphasis on diversity and inclusion. Thornton (2017) called for scholars to advance historical research on previously ignored groups, such as LGBTQ+ and English Language Learners (ELLs). Ladson-Billings (1995, 2001) looked at diversity-focused teaching and culturally relevant pedagogy. Cuenca (2017) worked with the NCSS, updating standards to guide students to be ‘active, informed, and justice-oriented citizens’ (p. 371). Scholars have suggested implementing antiracist curricula at schools for both social studies students and teachers (Darling-Hammond, 2017; Hawkman, 2020; Kendi, 2019). **Global Citizenship.** The technological advancements of the 21st century enable people worldwide to connect and learn about others’ realities and hardships. Therefore, social studies has begun focusing on global citizenship. Global citizenship requires students to examine and appreciate the diverse types of people around the world, acknowledge their multiple perspectives, honor their diversity, and support their right to social justice and fundamental freedoms as if they were members of students own race, ethnicity, or nationality. It indicates that everyone is a member of humanity. Twenty-five percent of children under 18 in the United States have parents who were not born in the United States (Byker, 2019). Therefore, students must become educated on the situations of others around the world. Like democratic citizenship, learning global citizenship includes history, economy, society/culture, geography, and government. Myers (2006) argued that teachers should consider global citizenship education as a layer rather than an alternative for developing democratic citizenship. Myers emphasized that some may see the combination of democratic and global citizenship as controversial, particularly in the United States, where schooling focuses on learning about national identity rather than the world. However, learning about national identity and the world both have value, as the knowledge about one contributes to an understanding and appreciation of the other. **Skills Development.** Building and applying content knowledge requires developing skills. Twenty-first-century social studies skills include an array of proficiencies, such as inquiry, critical thinking, and literacy. Teaching students to think historically, having historical literacy (Wineburg, 2007; Wineburg & Martin, 2004), and learning to think analytically and critically of texts (Ravitch, 2003) are synonymous with social studies education. Research, problem-based learning, and project-based learning are common forms of inquiry within this field and others. Teachers implement social studies skills depending on their knowledge and ability. Therefore, district and state mandates must provide 21st-century educators with the ability to implement open-ended learning environments (Saye, 2002) and use authentic pedagogy. Scholars found that authentic pedagogy correlated with improved student engagement and test scores (Saye & Social Studies Inquiry Research Collaborative [SSIRC], 2014). **Theoretical Framework: Critical whiteness Theory** Critical whiteness theory and its subsets of critical whiteness pedagogy and critical whiteness studies originated from critical race theory (Bell, 1987; Crenshaw et al., 1995; Ladson-Billings & Tate, 1995). Critical race theory (CRT) indicates that every aspect of U.S. society, politics, and economy contains racism. CWT is an extension of CRT, as it is a lens by which people see the validation and success of white people that occurs because of the social construct of their whiteness while (intentionally and/or unintentionally) systematically and consistently oppressing BIPOC. *Critical whiteness pedagogy* focuses on the impact of whiteness in education and its implications for both whites (positively impacted by whiteness in education) and BIPOC (negatively impacted by whiteness in education)\(^{10}\). *Critical whiteness studies* examines how whiteness is a privileged and socially dominant construct that has contributed to the intentional or unintentional supremacy of white people (Grayman-Simpson et al., 2019). *Critical whiteness theory* requires a meticulous and candid examination of how white people have benefitted from their whiteness and how it is their responsibility to acknowledge and combat the random privilege they have received due to their skin color. CWT has been a topic of discussion within U.S. society over the last decade, although many are unaware of its meaning. White and BIPOC educators, policymakers, and scholars have indicated the need to reexamine how educators and students analyze and present history. This need for reexamination has been a topic frequently studied and manifested in the national news (Aggarwal-Schifellite, 2020; Duhe, 2018; Forest & Johnson, 2019). Around the world, Americans and non-Americans have protested in favor of reframing history with a critical lens. Reframing advocates have also called for the relocation and destruction of monuments erected to memorialize colonizers’ white superiority and dominance (Rankin & Crary, 2020; Silva, 2020). In contrast, those wanting to maintain the relics in honor of white supremacists have voiced concerns about ‘erasing history’ (Joyner, 2020; Newsome, 2017). However, an increasing number of white people have amplified the voices of the marginalized to stand in solidarity with \(^{10}\) For a description of the goals of critical whiteness pedagogy, see D. Nichols (2010), ‘Teaching Critical Whiteness Theory: What College and University Teachers Need to Know, *Understanding and Dismantling Privilege*, 1(1), 1–12. those whom they acknowledge as having withstood oppression for generations, particularly in higher education and research (Cheung et al., 2019; Gardner & Alanis, 2020; Gibson & Hughes-Hassell, 2017). This type of behavior has been categorized as *white traitor* by Barnor Hesse, a Northwestern University professor of African American Studies who’s *Eight White Identities* went viral, largely for the use of the aforementioned term (Sargent & Rico, 2021a). While *white traitor* is cited to be negative in connotation, Hesse (Sargent & Rico, 2021a, 2021b) contended that to be a white traitor simply means to vocalize and fight for the best interest of non-white people, which essentially is antiracism. For racial harmony to occur between the historically white-dominant race and the people they have categorically marginalized and oppressed, it is essential to reframe the collective worldview to include multiple perspectives and counternarratives (Nganga et al., 2019) of BIPOC, not to mention other marginalized groups (e.g., the queer community, groups in poverty, and individuals with disabilities). Reframing history unavoidably results in CWT and the reexamination of how white people have dominated, colonized, enslaved, and marginalized BIPOC worldwide and over time. CWT requires white people to reflect on their worldviews intentionally and candidly, assessing how they have explicitly or implicitly benefitted from their whiteness while simultaneously intentionally or unintentionally marginalized others (Collins, 2018; McIntosh, 1989). CWT emphasizes the need for a deliberate and thorough examination of white privilege and superiority complex. Thus, CWT is an essential framework for this study on the impact of a teacher’s view of race on curricular decision-making. **Toward a Critical Lens** Inevitably, examining and critiquing whiteness can cause individuals to question how they can overcome their white superiority, white normativity, or white supremacy. Such individuals often question, *Am I inherently racist because I am white?* or, *Can I, as a white person, ever be naturally unbiased?* However, as Applebaum (2016) pointed out in defining critical whiteness, the point is not the goodness or badness of a person; instead, it is to acknowledge one’s privilege and discriminatory practices and work against them. As Kendi (2019) described in *How to Be an Anti-Racist*, ‘The most threatening racist movement is not the alt-rights unlikely drive for a White ethnostate but the regular American’s drive for a ‘race-neutral’ one’ (p. 19). People who acknowledge their privilege and critically examine their perspectives of race often commit to championing the marginalized to raise awareness of their oppression. They also often work to dismantle personal prejudices and point out prejudices around them. As a result, such individuals are often considered allies of oppressed communities. According to Pizzo (n.d.), allyship requires several actions: - to amplify the voices of the oppressed ahead of one’s own - to transfer personal benefits of privilege to those denied privilege - to acknowledge that while they may sympathize, they cannot empathize - to take responsibility for acquired knowledge rather than depending on the marginalized to justify or explain themselves - to listen, validate, and acknowledge the pain and experiences of the oppressed A white person can become an ally by operatively displaying the belief that race is a false social construct that must be dismantled to impart equal and just benefits to all human beings (Smith & Crowley, 2018). Allyship should be a common goal of white people to work against their inherent privilege and bias. However, white people cannot determine their level of allyship for themselves. The increased awareness of allyship and white privilege has resulted in a subsequent increase in white people proclaiming themselves allies on social media, although they may not have done any physical or educational work to protect or elevate People of Color. Consequently, Scholars of Color and journalists have called out to correct white people who claim to be allies but have not shown action (Hilaire, 2020; Owens, 2020), as have other white people (Animus, 2015; Rosen, 2017). Calling out those claiming to be allies aims to prevent a sense of white saviors and pride. Those who have historically experienced racial oppression have the right to acknowledge the people they trust and with whom they feel safe. The members of a dominant majority have no right to claim themselves as helpful to an oppressed minority without acknowledging the members of that oppressed minority. White people on the road to becoming allies must see *ally* as a verb, not a noun. They must follow certain behaviors and mentalities: always focus on the impacted, listen and learn from the oppressed, leverage privilege, and yield the floor to create space for the voices of the marginalized (Rosen, 2017). Saying otherwise contributes to privilege. **Applying Critical whiteness Theory To Racial Perspectives** Grasping the impact of CWT on teachers’ curricular decision-making requires understanding teachers’ racial lens, racial consciousness, racial subconsciousness, and racial unconsciousness, which I will refer to hereafter as racial (sub/un)consciousness. These five categories – racial lens, racial identity, and racial (sub/un)consciousness, I collectively refer to this as racial optics, outlined in Figure 1, and further explored in Chapter 5. However, it is first necessary to understand the various nuances that make up racial optics. Afterward, one can apply those concepts to the data regarding what and how a teacher chooses to present a particular curriculum. **Racial Identity and Racial Lens** One area of social studies teaching that is becoming less ambiguous as the 21\textsuperscript{st} century progresses is the perceptions and implications of race-conscious teaching. Teachers must understand their identities, beliefs, and goals as educators to develop their effectiveness and positively impact student learning (Noonan, 2019). This section focuses on teachers’ understanding of racial identity and their race lens as it pertains to themselves, their students, and society. Because race is widely regarded as a social construct, recognizing racial identity depends on how one perceives themselves and how others perceive them regarding their race (National Museum of African American History & Culture, n.d.). The term *racial lens* can be ambiguous, though it is straightforward. The National Institute of Health (NIH) defines *critical race lens* as how the ‘dominant culture perceives different races and ethnicities, how those perceptions are presented in the media and how those factors affect the way society treats people and their opportunities in life’ (National Institute of Health, n.d.). While *racial equity lens* is a much more common term, *racial lens* differs because it is not necessarily specific to issues of equity. To see with a racial lens means to perceive the world as it is viewed through one’s race. This means that the individual would need to know their racial identity – which race they perceive themselves to be categorized. The history of how one identifies racially – particularly for Black Americans – is extensive (Kendi & Blain, 2021), as there is a history of legal precedence for how one may identify themselves if they are of mixed race. For example, Barack Obama is the offspring of a Black man and a white woman, but he is identified by others and himself as a Black man, not a white man (Citrin et al., 2014). While this distinction is no longer legally required, this difference is significant because one’s identity informs their worldview and vice versa (de Witt, 2016). Because he perceives himself as a Black man and because others relate to him as a Black person, he presumably views the world and others through the experiences of a Black man, not a white man, even though his biological mother was white. It is important to note that identifying one’s race is very personal and subjective and can be complex (National Museum of African American History & Culture, n.d.). For some, a person of one nationality may have a similar skin color to a person of a different nationality, which is why the United States Census Bureau does not list Hispanic or Latine as a race but rather an ethnicity. In addition, it has become more common for people whose race may confuse others to include a caveat in their racial identity. For example, people whose outward appearance may be similar to a race/ethnicity which is not a part of their ancestry may clarify their race to others by using phrasing such as: *as a white-presenting Hispanic male*, or *I am an Asian-presenting Native American*. This distinction is significant because it speaks to the experiences of that particular person, who may have previously been mistaken for the wrong race. It is also important to note that people of mixed-racial background can identify themselves as they choose, based on any number of factors such as the culture that was dominant and/or influential in their upbringing, the racial groups they most resemble, or the groupings with which they most feel comfortable and self-identify (Parker et al., 2015; U.S. Census Bureau, n.d.). It is necessary to point out that racial identity, while personal and subjective, must remain consistent with truth. It is socially acceptable for people of multiple racial ancestries to choose their racial identity (such as Barack Obama). However, it is socially unacceptable for a person of one race to identify as anything other than that race, such as Dr. Rachel Dolezal. She became infamous as a white college professor who was fired from her position because she presented and identified herself as a Black woman, despite having no People of Color in her family line, (Johnson et al., 2015). Racial identity is also political. The United States classifies people into five racial groups: Asian, Black, Indigenous/Native Alaskan, Pacific-Islander/Native Hawaiian, and white. As mentioned, Hispanic/Latine are considered ethnicities since their varying subgroups reflect a wide variety of skin colors ranging from white to Black, and the cultural origins range from European to South American. There is a history of controversy over these five categorizations since the construct of race is considered social rather than biological (Bonham, n.d.; Chou, 2017), but also the wide variety and differences between people who are lumped into these categories. For example, people from Pakistan, while classified as Asian, have considerable physical, cultural, ethnic, and historical differences from others from China or Japan who are also classified as Asian. A 2019 Pew Research poll on how Americans perceive race produced interesting statistics on white people’s awareness of their race and its impact on their worldviews as opposed to People of Color. Seventy-four percent of Black people indicated their race as extremely important or very important to their identity, along with 59% of Hispanics and 56% of Asians. However, only 15% of white people found their race important to their identity (Pew Research Center, 2019). This statistic may or may not be a surprise. However, it shows the difference between how People of Color perceive the world concerning their race versus white people. Racial lens and identity are significant in the classroom. Studies show that Black students’ racial identity will impact their achievement and behavior in school (Carter, 2005, 2008; Sellers, Chavous et al., 1998; Sellers, Smith et al., 1998). Kohli (2008) revealed the importance and impact of teachers’ racial lenses on their classrooms. Kohli wrote about a ‘…Chicana from the Los Angeles area described an experience she had in her high school chemistry course. Her White teacher outwardly made racist comments that revealed low expectations and a lack of respect for his students and Latinas/os generally’ (Kohli, 2008, p. 183). While not many people openly admit to racism, the aforementioned example demonstrates how a teacher’s racial perspective can influence their students. Therefore, this study will focus on teachers’ racial lenses and how they see race to evaluate the decisions they make in their classrooms. **Racial Consciousness** Racial consciousness is comparable to racial lens and identity, yet distinctly acknowledged and studied by scholars (Carter, 2005, 2008; Pitts, 1974). Pitts (1974) defined race consciousness as ‘behavior indicating the actor’s interpretation of the situation as representing invidious relationship, even struggle, between the races’ (p. 669). Carter (2005) expanded upon racial consciousness with a critical lens and defined critical race consciousness as ‘a critical understanding of the asymmetrical power relationships that exist between Blacks and Whites in America’ (p. 102). Teachers with racial consciousness must be grounded in their racial identities and remain cognizant of their racial lenses. They must also acknowledge and accept the relationship between BIPOC and white people as unjust and unequal. **Woke.** Racial consciousness is synonymous with the modern term woke. This term originated in the 1940s in *Negro Digest* and was used throughout the late-20th century and into the 21st when Black singer Erykah Badu included the term in her song *Master Teacher* (Mirzaei, 2021). In addition, Black Lives Matter used the phrase to call attention to racial injustice after the Michael Brown murder. To *be woke* or *stay woke*, as Merriam Dictionary defines it, is to be ‘aware of and actively attentive to important facts and issues (especially issues of racial and social justice)’ (Merriam-Webster, n.d.). **Antiracist.** This study uses the operational definition of antiracism as the active and intentional outright opposition to any ideology, wording, or action in which race is a rationale for intentionally or unintentionally omitting, ignoring, degrading, or devaluing human beings. This definition originated from multiple source experts on the word (Center for the Study of Social Policy, n.d.; Kendi, 2019; National Museum of African American History & Culture, n.d.). Kendi (2019) further articulated that antiracism ‘requires persistent self-awareness, constant self-criticism, and regular self-examination’ (p. 22). While many believe the opposite of *racist* is *not-racist*, is important to note that the opposite of *racism* is actually *antiracism*, meaning the intentional and active rejection of racism (Kendi, 2019) as opposed to the *not-racist* mentality which is often associated with ignorance, compliance, and silence. A 2017 article focused on five urban schools that provided services for predominantly Black students. The longitudinal mixed methods study examined how educators can teach Students of Color to be racially conscious in oppressive societal conditions to achieve academic success. El-Amin et al. (2017) observed that ‘schools seeking to increase black students’ academic achievement must directly address these relevant social forces,’ (para. 5). Ultimately, educators must teach their students to enact a Freirean critical consciousness of race (Freire, 1970) and see, name, and challenge racial oppression to augment student achievement and success (El-Amin et al., 2017). **Racial Unconsciousness** Racial consciousness cannot be examined without positing its antithesis – *racial unconsciousness*. If being racially conscious is choosing to be woke, then I posit that being racially unconscious is to *choose* not to be woke, to be obstinate, or apathetic. Scholars have conducted an abundance of research on racial apathy and framed it as a major focus for education researchers (Banks, 2019; Bell, 2002; Crowley & Smith, 2015; Forman & Lewis, 2015; Hawkman, 2020; Sleeter, 2016; Smith & Crowley, 2014). Based on a cumulative reading of these works, *racial apathy* is a chosen perception and practice of minimizing the value and importance of race as having significance or impact. It is a choice made by people in how they see the race of others to avoid conflict or discomfort. Many people believe that identifying themselves as colorblind or choosing not to ‘see race’ conveys to others that they are ‘not racist’ (Bell, 2002; Collins, 2018; Crowley & Smith, 2015; Haviland, 2008; Hawkman, 2020; McIntosh, 1989; Picower, 2009; Sleeter, 2016; Smith & Crowley, 2014). However, as scholars have pointed out, dismissing or ignoring people’s racial identity causes degradation and harm, as the recipients often perceive such behavior as outright ignorance of their identities, experiences, and worldviews. Regardless of its intentionality, colorblindness does not acknowledge People of Color and the oppression they have experienced at the hands of white people *because of* their skin color (Applebaum, 2010). Many studies have focused on teacher education programs and found that the faculty members of these programs must discuss racial apathy and the impact of whiteness on students (Picower, 2009; Sleeter, 2016). Stereo-Racial Apathy. Stereo-racial apathy is a mannerism even more degrading and harmful to BIPOC. Hagerman (2018) defined stereo-racial apathy as not caring about racism or its perpetuation. She identified President Trump as a leading example of young people legitimizing racism by not actively fighting against it. In an interview, Hagerman (Banks, 2019) observed, ‘not caring about racism is perpetuating racism’ (min. 21:45). Media outlets and civilians nationwide have engaged in stereo-racial apathy by defending and supporting President Trump despite his racist and sexist remarks. Another example of stereo-racial apathy is the continued display of the Confederate flag and monuments despite well-publicized calls for their removal because they indicate support for racism. Stereo-racial apathy consists of acknowledging racism but disregarding it as harmful or an area of concern for humanity. Americans have varied opinions about race, antiracism, and racial apathy, and the various opinions indicate that the topic of race and racism is far from resolution (Forman & Lewis, 2015). However, evidence has shown that effective and productive classroom learning occurs when teachers have learned how to address racial issues in their methods classes (Haviland, 2008). Because of the nature of the content area, secondary social studies educators have many opportunities to discuss historical and contemporary racism with their students. However, it is ‘a task they cannot undertake without an awareness of the implications of their own White racial identities’ (Smith & Crowley, 2014, p. 18). Racial Subconsciousness If being racially conscious means to be aware of the asymmetrical power struggle between races, and being racially unconscious is a willful rejection or ignorance of racial oppression, there indeed exists a mid-point between these two ends of the spectrum. I posit this mid-point is racial subconscious - meaning to be unaware of said power struggles or holding unintentional bias. I contend intentionality is the defining force between evaluating one’s racial subconscious versus knowingly holding racist opinions. Racial subconsciousness or being unaware of racism and/or racial injustice occurs when one’s positionality prevents one from understanding a reality outside their lens. **Not-Racist.** Kendi (2019) bluntly stated that ‘not-racist’ is a ‘mask for racism because there is no in-between’ (p. 9). King (2016) identified non-racism to be the ‘passive rejection, opposition and disassociation from behaviors, discourses, and ideologies that are considered racist’ (p. 63). Conversely, antiracism is a ‘critical awareness of…and…an active process against racism that seeks to understand how racial ideology is manufactured and how it impacts the lived experiences of people daily’ (King, 2016, p. 63). To be not-racist is not enough; fighting racism requires one to become an antiracist (Kendi, 2019). **Colorblind.** The term colorblind has come to take on a negative connotation in recent years - justifiably - partly because Authors of Color are raising awareness (Kendi, 2020; Wingfield, 2015; Williams, 2011) about the damage this mentality has on people. Nevertheless, it is vital to acknowledge that the intent behind the phrase invokes the mentality of treating all people as human beings regardless of color (Perey, 2011) though it misses the mark. It is this same intentionality people still want to express while at the same time not being dismissive of the uniqueness all cultures and races have in humanity. Undeniably, whiteness has been normalized for centuries, partly because of race-based social structures without scientific or realistic grounding (Kendi, 2016; 2019; Kendi & Blain, 2021). Racial consciousness is not an absolute determination because humans are flawed and ever-changing. There are instances where a person may have an opinion reflecting racial consciousness and then make a separate statement revealing their racial subconscious. As Kendi discussed, being an antiracist is partly to acknowledge existing implicit bias. There are also varying degrees within each. For example, one could be racially conscious but not have marched in a BLM protest. One could be aware of their position on removing Confederate monuments but be unaware of critical race theory legislation. The level at which someone is racially conscious is not the aim of this study but instead to determine if there are occurrences for each participant demonstrating a racial (sub/un)consciousness. Table 1 offers a breakdown of the nuances of racial identity, racial lens and racial (sub/un)consciousness, which collectively comprise one’s racial optics. Similarly, Figure 2 gives a visual of how racial subconsciousness, racial unconsciousness and racial consciousness combine to encompass racial (sub/un)consciousness. **Applying Critical whiteness Theory to Social Studies** An innate starting point of this vital work exists within the education system, where all Americans and noncitizen residents can access knowledge and experience unification through teaching. An abundance of evidence has shown the existence of systemic racism in education (Ladson-Billings, 1998; Ladson-Billings & Tate, 1995; Navarro & Howard, 2017; Patterson, 2001; Urban & Wagoner, 2014). Students of Color continue to struggle due to residual and ongoing racism within the educational system (Patterson, 2001; Riddle & Sinclair, 2019). Thus, I posit a need exists to examine how educators in the 21st century still contribute to the educational oppression of People of Color, if even unintentionally or unknowingly. Numerous scholars have researched the impact of teachers’ beliefs and practices on student performance (Behar-Horenstein et al., 1996; Schmid, 2018; Turner et al., 2009). In addition, several researchers have examined how teachers can effectively adopt and implement antiracist curricula to promote critical whiteness and fight against white normativity (Chandler, 2015; Hawkman, 2019; King & Chandler, 2015). Others have explored the impact of race in the classroom, with varying combinations of Teachers of Color and their students or Students of Color and their teachers (Dee, 2005; Egalite et al., 2015; Gladwell, 2021; Shuls, 2017). This research has contributed to a vast body of knowledge on the impact of whiteness on education. Nevertheless, for all the progress, there is more work needed to completely dismantle white dominance from... Table 1 Racial Optics Defined | Racial Identity | Explained as... The racial classification one sees themselves as | Based on... Race as a social construct | Sounds like... | |-----------------|---------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------|----------------| | | | | ‘I’m Latine’ | | | | | ‘My parents were born in Thailand; I identify as Asian American.’ | | | | | ‘My mom is Black, my dad is Hispanic, but I connect more with the Black community – I’m Black.’ | | | | | ‘My family’s heritage is from Italy, France, Germany, and Norway, and my skin is white. So I just say I am American.’ | | Racial Lens | How one perceives the world based on their race | One’s particular racial identity | ‘Because I was raised by a Mexican family and I’m Mexican, I most easily understand how Latin see the world.’ | | | | | ‘Even though I have some Indigenous ancestry as well, I look and identify as Asian, and see the world as an Asian person.’ | | Racially | The extent that one acknowledges asymmetrical power | Varying levels of awareness of race | ‘As a white person, I have spent a lot of time listening to my Friends of Color and I can see how my privilege is random and unearned.’ | | Conscious | relationships between races | | ‘Even though I’m Indian, I know my Cuban friends struggled as immigrants in the United States in different ways that I did.’ | | Racially | The extent that one is unaware of asymmetrical power | Varying levels of unawareness of race | ‘I don’t think Latine people have had it as hard as Black people in the United States.’ | | Subconscious | relationships between races | | ‘I try not to see color.’ | | | | | ‘Slavery ended a long time ago. I had nothing to do with it.’ | | | | | ‘I’m a good person – I’m not racist.’ | | Racially | The extent that one willingly or unknowingly does not | One of two pathways: the refusal to | Examples of a) | | Unconscious | acknowledge the existence of asymmetrical power relationships| accept systemic differences between | ‘White people do not experience privilege or advantages based on race.’ | | | between races | races; or the complete lack of | ‘All races are treated the same in the United States.’ | | | | knowledge of systemic differences | Examples of b) | | | | between race due to being situated in | ‘Everyone in my town is white – I have zero interactions with nonwhite people.’ | | | | a racially homogenous environment | ‘Since I was born and raised in Japan, I’ve only spent time with Asians and have never been around any other race.’ | Note: This table is based on information from The National Museum of African American History & Culture and Pew Research Center (National Museum of African American History and Culture, n.d.; Parker et al., 2015). education and replace it with opportunities and resources to reach and represent all human beings equitably. Thornton (2017), in his chapter on the historiography of the social studies in the *Wiley Handbook of Social Studies Research* (Manfra & Bolick, 2017), indicated the whiteness of the field’s ‘Old Masters’ (p. 12) in the early 20th century and prior. Thornton identified the curriculum foci as created by and for the members of a white, Christian, middle-class heterosexual audience. The civil rights and feminist movements of the 1960s and 1970s resulted in acknowledging more minority scholarship in social studies. However, the 20th century ended with small and limited changes to the field’s advancement and acknowledgment of BIPOC history and inclusion in social studies curricula. Regardless, social studies is a natural area in which students and teachers can learn to examine whiteness critically and its impact on education and society as a whole, historically, presently, and imminently. Effectively achieving meaningful change within society requires teachers of all colors to acknowledge white social studies as a dismal reality of historical teaching. All teachers must work to find methods, curricula, and goals to combat the whitewashing of history actively and intentionally. **White Social Studies** White social studies (WSS), a term initially coined by Chandler and Branscombe (2015), ‘categorizes the ways whiteness determines the perspectives, values, and voices that are present and absent in social studies classrooms’ (Hawkman, 2019, p. 217). WSS is social studies that addresses the racial lens of white people (i.e., their understanding of history and race) and how white people pass on learning and understanding of a topic with a white lens via white normativity and standardization. Chandler and Branscombe (2015) identified WSS’s ten characteristics in their chapter ‘White Social Studies: Protecting the White Racial Code’ (Chandler, 2015) and Colley and Broome (2020) went on to summarize it as seeking ‘to maintain the status quo of the white dominant hegemonic narrative across K-12 history, economics, civics, geography, and other social sciences’ (p. 272). While instructors might not know they are teaching a whitewashed version of history, their lack of awareness causes no less harm to the legacy of BIPOC and contributes to the misplaced framing and default standardization of whiteness. While such unawareness may appear accidental or unintentional, it results from a legacy of systemic racism in education (An, 2020; Chandler, 2009). In addition, critical whiteness scholars have exposed the often-unnamed role of whiteness in producing racial hierarchies (Foste & Irwin, 2020). Therefore, studying the impact of whiteness on People of Color throughout history is a vital step. There is a growing call to reassess how educators frame social studies education (Hawkman, 2020; Navarro & Howard, 2017; Picower, 2009). Social studies educators and scholars had to reframe the approach to content and its implications on citizenship education after September 11 due to societal ideological changes in the United States (Foner & Bender, 2002, as cited in Gerwin, 2015). Similarly, teachers and scholars must attend to the conversation on how to address race in a #BlackLivesMatter versus #AllLivesMatter society with nearly a decade of civil unrest and police brutality to understand the experiences of U.S. students and teachers. Countless examples exist of the whitewashing of U.S. history to present white people as the dominant and superior race. An exhaustive listing of these examples is beyond the scope of this study, as every event studied in U.S. history is a whitewashed version of a partial truth presented to history students. This notion is based simply on the fact that prior to the 21st century, curriculum and content were taught and decided on by the white majority (Kendi, 2019). U.S. History is required in all schools; however, only elective (i.e., optional) courses focus on People of Color (e.g., African American History or Native American History). The very existence and need for such courses and counternarratives indicate the lack of balanced, holistic, and truthful representation of People of Color in U.S. history courses (Navarro & Howard, 2017). Also, not all districts and states have standards and course offerings for classes such as African American History. Therefore, few students receive exposure to a curriculum representing and normalizing the contributions and realities of People of Color. Woodson (1933/1999), in *Mis-Education of the Negro*, implored teachers to instruct Black students on the European ‘mainstream’ as the history, language, and philosophy of their people so that they could be educated enough to serve their communities (as cited in Delpit, 1995). Hooks (1989) wrote about how her white teachers corrected and admonished her when she used her chosen dialect rather than ‘standard English’ (p. 11). Chandler and Branscombe (2015) examined three teachers who taught with a refusal to acknowledge the tensions between their whiteness and its impact on U.S. history education, stating, [I]t can be argued that these teachers are unconsciously engaging in teaching about dominant narratives because this is the way they see their jobs as teachers and as White folk—to reinforce and uphold traditional narratives about U.S. history and the role of race. Or, it can be argued that these teachers, fully aware of their whiteness, have purposefully decided to leave out racial explanations of how and why events in early American history occurred. We believe that both of these are operating, simultaneously, in the thinking of our teachers, but not in their enacted teaching. In this way, they are upholding, through their negotiations of race and history, the idea of White superiority within their history classes. (p. 80) Epstein (2009) found that white students’ experiences in social studies did not cause them to challenge their colorblindness; instead, their experiences contributed to the narrative they saw at home. In contrast, Black students found a disconnect between their personal and academic lessons, resulting in disinterest in school and mistrust of history textbooks. Arguably, such situations are one explanation for Black History Month. Teachers have used Black History Month to implement the history of Black Americans as a curricular focal point (King & Brown, 2014). However, again, such teaching occurs based on teachers’ discretion and awareness, curricular autonomy, and departmental curricular requirements (e.g., preparation for standardized testing). Tosolt (2020), a white educator who teaches white preservice teachers, asserted that white teachers have floundered, thereby perpetuating white supremacy in their attempts at teaching Black History Month. Although Tosolt did not blame the teachers, she cautioned white teachers to examine the intents, processes, and goals of their teaching, writing, ‘Absent a grounding of pedagogy in sociological and historical reality, well-intentioned teachers’ attempts to celebrate Black history through the presentation of decontextualized heroes only reinforce existing anti-Black sentiments’ (p. 773). King and Brown (2014) discussed the numerous transgressive and regressive ways of teaching Black History Month, arguing that scholars and educators must develop more appropriate pedagogies. Scholarly works such as these, as well as news stories of teachers asking students to ‘dress like an African American’ or in ‘animal print’ (Hillbard, 2012), prove that there is a long way to go for white teachers to teach Black History in equitable and humane ways. This is but one example of how the education system has failed in incorporating and normalizing People of Color, especially since this common approach of Black History Month highlights one non-white race, leaving Asian, Latine, Pacific Islander/Native Hawaiian, and Indigenous/Native Alaskan without prominence of acknowledgement on a wide scale. While the intentionality of Black History Month may be inclusion, the outcome is lacking, to say the least and does not to begin the large picture of decentralizing white normativity within curriculum and instruction. Several authors have exposed the continuations of WSS (An, 2020; Chandler, 2009; Thornton, 2017). Prentice Chandler (2009) focused on establishing WSS as a phenomenon as he studied two white high school U.S. history teachers and found that both had a liberal, incremental progressive mentality toward race and racism. Both teachers acknowledged racism in their classrooms and the significance of race but indicated that progress was occurring for a more just society. One of Chandler’s participants admitted to being colorblind and sought to ‘get past’ accountability for the race-based oppression of the ‘past’ (p. 268). Chandler explained, ‘he assumed that his take on race’s impact and the way that it should be handled are in line with the students of color whom he teaches’ (p. 270). More recently, An (2020) observed her daughter’s responses to the WSS taught in her school. Her daughter, an Asian American who was in fourth and fifth grades during the study, engaged in informal conversations with her ‘motherscholar’ (p. 175). Over two years, An collected and analyzed the data and concluded that her daughter, at ten and eleven years of age, sought a sense of belonging in the story of the United States. Her daughter noticed Asian invisibility in her lessons and noted hegemonic whiteness in the curriculum. An’s study sought to disrupt master narratives. While white social studies is a regime of thought (Chandler & Branscombe, 2015) that establishes the field to critically examine how whiteness has impacted the teaching and learning of history, economics, geography and political science, it has yet to be explored further by scholars in order to make it accessible and relatable to not only 6th-12th grade educators but also the general public. Its foundational concepts, though certainly undisputable by field experts and scholars, may not be as palpable to educators, parents or administration. A considerable amount of supporting evidence, discussion, and scaffolding would need to occur in order for it to be a framework that those without expertise in the areas of CRT or critical pedagogy would accept as fact. Still, in understanding why whitewashing and white normativity occur, it is a valuable concept to be examined and discussed with any stakeholder interested in taking social studies education to the next level. **Curriculum** A growing movement exists to implement a more diversified curriculum into the existing presentation (Mercer, 2020). However, without mandated standards for a diversified curriculum, this fruition depends on individual states, districts, or departments. In 2005, Philadelphia was the first district to require a Black history course for graduation (Mercer, 2020). States such as Florida, Virginia, Connecticut, Rhode Island, and Colorado were working toward mandates for Black and Latine studies within curricula following the racial unrest in 2020. The introduction of the Black History is American History Act by U.S. Democratic Representative Fudge from Ohio occurred in May 2020 to incentivize schools to include Black history instruction (United States Congress, 2020). However, much of these efforts were thwarted in 2022 with the anti-CRT legislation that swept the country (which will be discussed further in this chapter). Still, several states were successful in passing laws to require increased diversity in social studies curriculum: - Illinois became the first state to require the teaching of Asian American history (Shivaram, 2021) - North Dakota passed a law requiring the teaching of Native American history in K-12 curriculum (Brown, 2022) - Connecticut became the first state to require Black and Latine studies in high school (Kountz, 2021) While all these steps advance the field toward equitable representation in social studies classrooms, the last five years have revealed how passionate some can be in preventing the diversification of American history. Textbooks. Classroom textbooks and resources that present an edited reality of U.S. history have contributed to the WSS curricula. Unfortunately, members of generations still alive today learned from textbooks that presented the oppression of People of Color with a rose-colored, whitewashed mutation of the truth. Several scholars have examined these texts closely (e.g., California State Department of Education, 1964; Goldstein, 2008; King, 2016; Schwartz, 2019; Stoskopf & Bermudez, 2017). However, scholars have not been the only ones aware of whitewashing. Other outlets have provided media exposure of the flaws in U.S. history textbooks. *The New York Times* compared eight textbooks from California and Texas published in 2016 or later and how they depicted similar historical events (Goldstein, 2008). The findings showed historical accounts written with subtle and extensive differences, each aligning to the states’ political and moral climates. On the HBO satirical news show *Last Week Tonight*, John Oliver (2020) presented a 30-minute segment on the whitewashing of U.S. history via textbooks, presenting examples from Alabama resources used within the last 40 years. These more accessible forms of information may be part of the reason for the general population’s heightened awareness of how social studies have caused many to misunderstand U.S. history. Primary Documents. Applying CWT to social studies resources requires critically examining primary documents. Many social studies courses include teaching students to read and decipher primary documents for disciplinary literacy (Barton & Levstik, 2004; Wineburg & Reisman, 2015). However, white male enslavers authored many primary documents on the establishment and government of the country. Therefore, educators must teach students to read these documents for their knowledge as U.S. residents and to critically examine the intentionality and reality of what the nation’s leaders wanted for the country as opposed to today’s society. This conception has caused scholars and members of the general public to reexamine certain foundational documents. Scholars have long scrutinized The U.S. Constitution for the phrase ‘life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness’ while millions had been and continued to experience slavery. However, critics have begun closely examining other primary sources for hypocrisy or exclusion. For example, the National Anthem has undergone critical examination because of the phrase ‘land of the free,’ despite its writer being a slave-owning lawyer who represented other enslavers looking to find their ‘runaway property’ (Lehman, 2020, p. 15). Lehman (2020) suggested switching the National Anthem to ‘America the Beautiful’ because of the all-inclusive nature of the song. Music can be a powerful resource for teaching students how to think deeply about the messages in songs from the past and encouraging them to question truth claims (Howell & Callahan, 2016). Students often read the Emancipation Proclamation issued on January 1, 1863. However, they rarely learn that it did not provide freedom for enslaved people until the ratification of the 13th Amendment on December 6, 1865. Additionally, people in Texas remained enslaved until June 19, 1866, after the Civil War (Garrett-Scott et al., 2013). Teaching students to critically examine resources and primary documents is an increasingly valuable 21st-century skill (Wineburg & Reisman, 2015). **Citizenship Education and National Identity** Nearly every generation of Americans educated in public schools, particularly within the 20th century, heard stories of Columbus’ discovery of America, pilgrims seeking religious freedom, and the founding fathers fighting for and establishing democracy. These accounts’ purpose was to create a national identity (Barton & Levstik, 2004) and historical teaching, regardless of the extent of their omissions. The goal was to create unity to remain strong in the face of the perceived 20th-century political enemies of democracy (Thornton, 2017; Urban & Wagoner, 2014): communism, socialism, fascism, and totalitarianism. Like after 9/11, the national unity taught in social studies was an essential component in the survival of the United States; this likely remained true during times of war and hardship throughout U.S. history (Foner & Bender, 2002, as cited in Gerwin, 2015; Wagner et al., 2018). However, scholars have considered U.S. history curricula patriotic propaganda. Nelson (2001) described this as ‘Americanizing youth through patriotic sloganeering, limiting dissent, producing passive but morally righteous citizens, and convincing the masses of the virtues of work and proper status of the upper class’ (p. 28). These selective and edited stories result in a false narrative that does not include countless facts. These selective stories present a version of history that places white people at the forefront of the creation and success of the United States. Historically, national identity has been coupled with whiteness (Barton & Levstik, 2004). Preparing students for democracy requires redefining national identity to include pluralism and inclusivity. When examining the scope of United States history, a central theme is the mistreatment and exclusion of certain people from the full benefits of citizenship, resulting in skepticism toward defining a national identity. Scholars and educators have begun grappling with the tension that has resulted from this injustice: acknowledgement of the honor, respect, and truth long overdue to People of Color who have experienced generations of oppression and mistreatment and balancing this with teaching students of all colors to become active, participatory, and collaborative citizens and residents of the United States (Gibson, 2020; Ho & Barton, 2020). This tension has been manifested with national controversy over Black Americans who refused to stand for the National Anthem or Pledge of Allegiance\textsuperscript{11} (History.com Editors, 2021). \textbf{Standards} \textbf{Existing Standards}. Teachers look to state standards when deciding on curricula, yet the states have varying learning standards based on their policymakers. Therefore, the NCSS’s National Curriculum Standards for Social Studies (2010) and C3 Framework for Social Studies State Standards (2017) is most often used as the guiding force of most states in creating their standards. All the NCSS National Curriculum Standards for Social Studies provide language for guiding teachers toward diverse, reflective curricula that address changes over time and include various cultures and perspectives so that students can develop their identities, understand the nature and impact of authority and power, and learn about societal advancements (NCSS, 2010). The goal of the C3 Framework is to strengthen social studies courses with critical thinking and problem-solving, developing participatory citizenship, and rigorously responding to the marginalization of social studies (NCSS, 2013). The NCSS standards provide a general guideline while allowing state autonomy for content. These standards are nationally available and utilized but not mandated, allowing state and district leaders to decide what to teach students about history. However, therein lie some new problematic disagreements. \textbf{Development of New Standards}. In light of the recent political and racial strife throughout the United States, state leaders have begun to amend their social studies standards and adapt the language most befitting lawmakers as they see their constituency. For example, in \textsuperscript{11}For more information about the history of this movement and protest, see https://www.history.com/this-day-in-history/colin-kaepernick-kneels-during-national-anthem January 2021, the North Carolina Board of Education presented a draft to the new state superintendent with changes to the language, including systematic racism to omit ‘systematic,’ gender identity to omit the word ‘identity,’ and systemic discrimination to omit the word ‘systemic’ (Granados, 2021). Board members reported feeling that the standards that included those words were ‘leftist dogma’ that provided a feeling of ‘America the oppressor, not America the land of opportunity’ (Granados, 2021, para. 5). Conversely, Michigan provided a revised set of standards in 2019 for implementation in 2023 that include more examples of the roles of women, minority organizations, Muslims, and Black people in U.S. history (Chambers, 2019). In 2020, CBS News aired a report on the social studies standards of all 50 states for a comparison of how educators teach Black history in the United States. The report found many areas of disconnect that could be the reason for national confusion about Black people and the severity of the oppression they experienced at the hands of white people in the U.S. Among the findings were: - Less than half of the states required students to learn about racism. - Sixteen states included states’ rights (e.g., sectionalism, tariffs, and economic disagreement) as causes for the Civil War. - Eight states did not address the civil rights movement. - Seven states did have direct requirements for teaching slavery. - Only two states (Massachusetts and Maryland) required students to learn about white supremacy. - West Virginia presented slavery as an example of supply and demand. - North Carolina presented slavery as immigration. Texas did not require learning about institutional racism in the required U.S. history course; it only provided an elective course. Teachers spent less than 10% of class time teaching Black history (Duncan et al., 2020). NCSS President Heafner commented in the report that while the standards’ lack of specificity does not indicate that teachers do not include the concepts in their lessons, the teachers do ‘turn to the curriculum standards as their guideline. So, the fact that they are not there could give a perception that is not something that is absolutely essential that they have to address’ (Duncan et al., 2020, para. 14). **Curriculum Results of Applying Critical whiteness Theory** **The 1619 Project.** Suppose the ultimate goal of social studies education is to teach young people to operate in a ‘…culturally diverse, democratic society in an interdependent world’ (NCSS, n.d.-a, para. 3). In that case, social studies must have innovative curricula with a unified understanding of the principles of a culturally diverse and democratic society. To this end, there have been profound implications in implementing two opposing perspectives of one innovative curriculum. In August 2019, *The New York Times Magazine* presented *The 1619 Project*, which has since undergone adaptation into a social studies curriculum. *New York Times* writer Nikole Hannah-Jones, who received the Pulitzer Prize for Commentary for her introductory essay, led the project. *The 1619 Project* suggests critically reframing U.S. history to begin in 1619, when the first Enslaved People of African Decent arrived in the United States. The curriculum provides reading guides, activities, lessons, and other resources for social studies teachers (Pulitzer Center, n.d.). It has received praise for providing innovative and powerful concepts to challenge how learners see and perceive the United States with the placement of slavery and the contributions of Black Americans ‘at the very center of the story we tell ourselves about who we are’ (Da Silva, 2020, para. 7). Currently, educators at more than 4,500 schools nationwide have adopted the curriculum (Farrow, 2020). Some historians, conservatives, and politicians have criticized the curriculum (Meyrat, 2020; Schaefer Riley, 2020). President Trump provided some of the most public criticisms of *The 1619 Project* in a national statement in which he denounced the curriculum and threatened to defund the schools where it is implemented. Trump (2020a) professed, ‘Critical race theory, *The 1619 Project* and the crusade against American history is toxic propaganda, ideological poison, that, if not removed, will dissolve the civic bonds that tie us together, will destroy our country’ (para. 20). The President then signed *The 1776 Commission* into executive order to produce a report on the core principles of the founding of the United States to ‘promote patriotic education,’ (Trump, 2020a, para. 25). The Commission, funded by the Department of Education, consisted of members appointed by the president (Trump, 2020b) and provided its report on January 2021, on Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Day and just before President Trump’s final day in office (The President’s Advisory 1776 Commission, 2021). The 18-member commission, none of them professional U.S. historians, lacked scholarly citations, downplayed slavery and slave ownership, and omitted Native Americans in its collective impression of America’s narrative. It additionally listed challenges to America’s principles to include slavery, progressivism, racism, and ‘identity politics,’ which they described as valuing ‘people by characteristics like race, sex, and sexual orientation and holds that new times demand new right to replace the old,’ (The President’s Advisory 1776 Commission, 2021, p.15-16). The American Historical Association, American Library Association, American Civil Liberties Union, and American Association of University Professors all condemned *The 1776 Report*. The NCSS also provided a statement before the report’s release that indicated that state leaders and educators decide curricula, not the federal government (NCSS, 2020b). President Biden abolished the executive order for the commission on his first day in office. President Trump’s (2020a) public criticism of critical race theory and teaching history with multiple perspectives spilled into a nationwide conversation after he left office. This resulted in many states passing legislation preventing social studies teachers from discussing difficult history topics that may cause feelings of guilt based on students’ race (Farag, 2021). The difficulty of many secondary social studies teachers in addressing controversial issues and teaching students how to resolve differing opinions (Hawley et al., 2016; Ho et al., 2017; Lintner, 2018) will likely result in continued controversy on which curriculum materials to include. However, the NCSS (2020b) indicated that curriculum resource decisions are not the federal government’s responsibility. Instead, the NCSS expressed support for any school, district, and teacher in the implementation of resources such as *The 1619 Project* ‘to accurately depict the history of slavery in the United States, broaden the horizons of their students, and prepare citizens for a just democratic society’ (para. 4). Despite this statement of support, policymakers in many states still strive to eradicate *The 1619 Project* curriculum from schools in their states based on the statement by Trump’s commission (Rodriguez, 2021). Other Antiracist Curricula. Antiracism can have many forms in social studies education: a topic, an approach, a curriculum, an ideology, and a goal. Many states now provide educators with guidance for implementing antiracist materials in their course content (Arizona Department of Education, 2020; Nebraska Department of Education, 2020; New Jersey Department of Education, n.d.; State of Michigan, n.d.). Additionally, national organizations have provided antiracist resources on their websites (Center for the Study of Social Policy, n.d.; NCSS, n.d.-b). Other antiracist curricula have emerged over the years to reframe the teaching and presentation of U.S. history. For example, LaGarrett King (2019, 2020), founder and director of the Carter Center for K-12 Black History Education and professor at the University of Missouri, released a curriculum used in a Kentucky school district entitled *Developing Black Historical Consciousness*. Another resource is *The Howard Zinn Project* - a database created by Zinn (2008) to ‘introduce students to a more accurate, complex, and engaging understanding of United States history than is found in traditional textbooks and curricula’ (para. 2) and presents lessons and activities for teaching about reparations for Black people, teaching Reconstruction, and abolishing Columbus Day. Finally, many scholars have evaluated and supported antiracist materials and sentiments in secondary social studies classrooms, as well as other content areas and grade levels (Hawkman, 2020; King & Chandler, 2015; Pollock, 2008; Smith, 2014). As such, the construct of antiracism is a practice with increasing popularity and an approach to the social studies experience for teaching students how to work against racism actively and intentionally. **Backlash Against Critical whiteness Theory in Social Studies.** In the eighteen months from the beginning of this study to its completion, the United States watched social studies education move from being a venue in which to educate students about America’s difficult history with racism and make efforts to correct white normativity in social studies with the aforementioned curricula (Chambers, 2019; Duncan et al., 2020) to a politicized reactionary response in which lawmakers have enacted bills preventing such curriculum from being included (Granados, 2021; Greene, 2022). Even further, in some cases, the bans dissuade the inclusion of certain factual history being taught in the classroom (Laats, 2015; Waxman, 2022). Such drastic and swift measure leaves scholars seeking to understand how it is education is being edited to perpetuate white normativity (Feingold, 2022; Pfeifer, 2022; Schocker & De Senso, 2022), and secondary educators are left confused and afraid about what they can and cannot teach about in their classrooms, under penalty of the new laws being passed in their states (NBC12 Newsroom, 2022; Schocker & De Senso, 2022; Waxman, 2022). **Legislation.** By January of 2021, just eight months after the death of George Floyd and the subsequent global unrest that followed which resulted in sweeping pledges from states and districts to begin to explore mandates *for* higher diversity in social studies, several conservative lawmakers and their constituents began proposing legislation that would not only stop this diversification but, in many cases, reverse it. From the time President Trump left office January 2021 to July 2022, 42 states introduced bills or mandates restricting the teaching of critical race theory in K-12 classrooms as well as universities and/or set restrictions about how educators can discuss race (Arrojas, 2022; Schwartz, 2022). Nineteen states have passed legislation regarding how race can be presented and taught in secondary and/or higher education classrooms. Some of the language in these laws are ambiguous and therefore problematic, leaving educators unsure of what the limitations are and why they are now required to edit the truth of America’s difficult history. Forbes described an active index designed by PEN America that is actively tracking the proposed, passed and contested legislation restricting conversations of race and gender in secondary and higher education (Greene, 2022). For example: - Florida HB7/SB 148 bars K-12 schools and public colleges from adopting any instructional materials or engaging in any professional development programs that ‘espouses, promotes, advances, inculcates, or compels’ belief in certain ideas about race, sex, color, or national origin. Classroom instruction related to past racial injustice may not ‘indoctrinate or persuade’ students to believe these ideas. - Idaho, HB 377 bans public schools and institutions of higher education from ‘direct[ing] or otherwise compel[ing] students to personally affirm, adopt, or adhere’ to the outlined ‘critical race theory’ tenets. Bars funding for such prohibited acts. - Texas, HB 3979 bars teachers from being ‘compelled to discuss a particular current event or widely debated and currently controversial issue.’ Teachers who do so should ‘strive to explore the topic from diverse and contending perspectives without giving deference to any one perspective.’ Bars requiring an understanding of the 1619 Project. Bans schools from requiring or making part of a course certain concepts. (Greene, 2022) While these bans will be further discussed in Chapter 6, it is clear from the language in these laws that the ambiguity of what is and is not allowed to be discussed in secondary and higher education classrooms can be easily perceived as censorship and thus contradicts the basic ideals of democratic education. **Applying Critical whiteness Theory to Curricular Decision-Making** If the field of social studies education wants to ensure students of history are receiving a robust and comprehensive examination of America’s narrative and if students are to explore history as critical thinkers of 21st century learning, it is imperative that their teachers first become fluent on their perspectives of race and how it may or may not influence what they teach in their classrooms. Therefore, it is essential for teachers to explore their professional identity, beliefs, pedagogical content knowledge, and their positionality on their roles as gatekeepers of student learning. Professional Identity Scholars have explored teachers’ professional identities to understand how they approach pedagogy, curricular choices, classroom interactions, and even their success as educators across the field of education worldwide (Bosse & Torner, 2015; Siraj-Blatchford, 1993). In this study on how teachers’ racial perceptions could influence curricular choices, teachers’ professional identities will be the means used to frame the connection between their identities and curricular decision-making (Beijaard et al., 2004). Many ways exist to approach, define, and categorize teachers’ professional identities (Beauchamp & Thomas, 2009; Beijaard et al., 2004; Farrell, 2011; Gee, 2000; Hanna et al., 2019; Noonan, 2019; Sachs, 2001). For this research, *professional identity* will be teachers’ perceptions of themselves as educators with beliefs about teaching, learning, and their roles in the exchange contributing to their decision-making and pedagogical processes. Teachers aware of their professional identities can use them to guide educational decisions, make curricular choices, interact with students, collaborate with colleagues, and manage behavior. Beijaard et al. (2004) identified the features of professional identity, including the reinterpretation of experiences, the merging of the person with context, ongoing professional development, and the use of subidentities for different contexts and relationships. *Race* is not synonymous with *identity*; however, it contributes to individuals’ worldviews, how they see themselves in it, and how educators interact within their profession (Brown, 2006; Browne, 2012; Wandix-White, 2020). Teachers’ race, personal identities, and professional identities as educators often intersect to inform their beliefs. In turn, their beliefs often intersect with their pedagogical decision-making (Ho et al., 2017). Secondary social studies teachers must guide students in forming their identities: how they see themselves in the world and where they belong. Educators must ask themselves the same questions (Hubbard, 2019) to inform their pedagogical decisions. Teachers who articulate their goals and rationale within their professional identities can recognize their positionality and, with a further self-reflexive examination, identify the impact of their subjectivity (Madison, 2020) on their curricular choices. **Teacher Beliefs** This literature review has addressed the definition and impact of racial identity on the racial lens. This section of the review addresses the impacts of teachers’ beliefs, regardless of racial identity or racial lens, on their worldview when they know about the systematic injustice experienced by others because of race; this is a concept known as a *racial equity lens*. For a teacher, seeing with a racial equity lens requires looking at pedagogical content knowledge and decision-making for a diverse student body. Using a racial equity lens, educators must look for instances when Students of Color may be disadvantaged against their white counterparts due to the long-standing systemic racism in education. Typically, individuals who utilize a racial equity lens are highly aware of their racial optics. However, individuals with a race lens may not always utilize the racial equity lens. The difference between the two concepts tremendously affects teachers’ decision-making (Ho et al., 2017; Pajares, 1992; Richardson, 1996). Much racial tension occurred in the first 20 years of the 21st century. Secondary social studies teachers have struggled with their perceptions of racial identity, racism, and race history while teaching their students how to navigate these topics, feelings, and experiences at the personal, societal, political, and academic levels. Extensive research has emerged within the last ten years on how social studies teachers should make curricular choices with varying perspectives (NCSS, 2008). Teachers willing to have open and guided discussions with their students on race have better connections and more success (Hawley et al., 2016; Lintner, 2018). **Pedagogical Content Knowledge** Shulman (1986, 1987) indicated that a teacher’s formation of pedagogical content knowledge (PCK) determines the effectiveness in the classroom. Teachers must have the ability to articulate content knowledge and combine it with a pedagogy to successfully reach learners (Gitomer & Zisk, 2015; Shulman, 1987). PCK differs from content knowledge or pedagogy as it ‘goes beyond knowledge of subject matter per se to the dimension of subject matter knowledge for teaching’ (Shulman, 1986, p. 9). PCK is craft knowledge, recognizing what makes a topic easy or challenging to learn and the preconceptions or misconceptions that may exist for students. PCK also means knowing how to transcend those obstacles to create meaningful and powerful learning for students. **Racial Pedagogical Content Knowledge.** Teachers self-aware of their racial lenses who commit to teaching social studies with a racial equity lens utilize a racial pedagogical decision-making process to include the same, if not more, resources for and focus on BIPOC in curriculum topics, resources, and approaches (Chandler, 2015; King & Chandler, 2016). Racial pedagogical decision-making consists of how teachers approach pedagogical decision-making for race content with the awareness of the impact on themselves and their students (Hawkman, 2019). However, students suffer when teachers do not take the time to explore, implement, or subscribe to racial pedagogical content knowledge (RPCK) or claim colorblindness (Buchanan-Rivera, 2019; Tatum, 2019). Consequently, students pass into adulthood without learning how to see the world through others’ perspectives. Such students may subsequently feel less concerned about the common good and remain self-absorbed with their mentalities and views. Gatekeeping In the first chapter of *Teaching Social Studies that Matters*, Thornton (2005) indicated the importance of gatekeeping, which the author defined as the ‘decisions teachers make about curriculum and instruction and the criteria they use to make those decisions’ (p. 1). Thornton argued for the importance of gatekeeping in social studies because they lack a definitive scope and sequence. Therefore, educating gatekeepers ‘requires simultaneous attention to both curriculum and method and their interrelationships’ (p. 5). Teachers are the direct gatekeepers of student learning (Thornton, 1989). Educators guide students in the democratic ideals they use to ground their civic competency. For some, gatekeeping is a natural scaffold and pathway for student learning (Nagy, 2000; Thornton, 1989), while others may find it restrictive and conflicting (Hylton et al., 2018). Secondary social studies teachers who develop their PCK must be able to scaffold student learning of citizenship and civic competency, as the goal of education is to provide for democracy (Barton & Levstik, 2004; Darling-Hammond, 2006; Urban & Wagoner, 2014). Vansledright critiqued Thornton’s (2005) book and the specific consequences of gatekeeping for Students of Color. Thornton (2006) responded to Vansledright’s critique and defended his work, articulating that ‘many teachers do not incorporate research findings into what they do’ (p. 417). Thornton clarified that educators must inform their gatekeeping decisions with research. The back and forth between Thornton and Vansledright showed the additional debate and ambiguities within the field, particularly regarding Students of Color, providing room for further clarifying research with data. Fifteen years of research, literature, and theory on RPCK have focused on racial decision-making and gatekeeping. Scholars have reexamined teaching social studies with a racial lens (Buchanan-Rivera, 2019; Hawkman, 2019, 2020; Hawley et al., 2016; King & Chandler, 2016; Tatum, 2019). Building from Chandler and Branscombe (2015), King and Chandler (2016) synthesized these works and more in the first chapter of Crowe’s and Cuenca’s book, *Rethinking Social Studies Teacher Education in the Twenty-First Century*. They described how race and social studies pedagogy and teacher education are not heavily critiqued and widely discussed topics. Thus, ‘the pedagogical moves employed by these teachers represent an attempt to teach U.S. history without a racial lens…they seek to pass down a version of ‘our story’ that, due to our specialness as a nation, cannot be tainted by the sin of institutional racism’ (King & Chandler, 2016, p. 11). Ultimately, teachers’ strong sense of purpose is the only reliable predictor of effective gatekeeping (Barton & Levstik, 2004; Thornton, 2006). The distinguishing factor is racial identity, which indicates teachers’ professional goals and the why, what, and how they teach social studies. **Curriculum Mandates.** The response to standardized testing as a form of accountability in schools remains divisive in social studies education. Such effects include limiting instruction to the topics indicated by state standards and curriculum mandates and asking students to demonstrate facts rather than critical thinking (Barton & Levstik, 2004). The marginalization of social studies in favor of science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM) due to the No Child Left Behind Act (NCLB) in 2002 resulted in the absence of social studies in assessments. This absence has reduced the time spent teaching social studies (NCSS, 2008). Mandates for curriculum include predetermined syllabi or resources, state-approved textbooks, or district-required curricula. Many educators have reported not learning about or receiving training for the mandated materials they must utilize (Committee on Youth Education for Citizenship, 1980). President Obama signed the Every Student Succeeds Act (ESSA) into law in 2015 to replace NCLB as the country’s primary education law. The purpose of ESSA is to hold schools accountable for how students learn and succeed, particularly students who learn and think differently, including those in poverty, special education, and English language learners. The ESSA requires state testing for students in reading, math, and science; however, social studies or civics are not mandated topics. Therefore, state and district leaders must decide what and how to teach. **Teacher Autonomy and Authentic Pedagogy** Teachers’ autonomy in their classrooms influences their curricular decisions for the discussed reasons. A prescribed curriculum correlates with little autonomy. However, studies have shown the benefits of teacher autonomy and authentic pedagogy for student learning (Maddox & Saye, 2014; Saye & SSIRC, 2013, 2014). Teachers trusted and empowered to create and implement robust curricula to facilitate student learning can create powerful social studies courses. However, teacher autonomy and authentic pedagogy can cause problems, such as inconsistencies in student knowledge and ability, minimized time spent with students because of increased time developing curriculum, and feelings of isolation and stress for teachers (Johnson, 2016). On the other hand, teachers receive encouragement in their training programs to become creative facilitators of learning and develop authentic pedagogies (NCSS, 2018). However, when they enter the profession, they find that they have little independence and must adhere to the standards and mandates of an established curriculum (Cochran-Smith et al., 2013; Darling-Hammond, 2006). A need exists for research to balance implementing innovative, authentic curricula and ensuring that students successfully obtain the necessary content knowledge and skillsets. **Controversial Topics** Innovative content reflective of the recent climate and topics of U.S. politics and society has begun to emerge (Callahan & Hubbard, 2019; Moorhead & Jimenez, 2020). Teachers often struggle to facilitate balanced learning on controversial topics (Ho et al., 2017; Lintner, 2018). Thus, the need for students to learn about current events and controversies is more dire than ever. Teachers open to discourse and dialogue with their students are highly effective (National Board for Professional Teaching Standards, 2015). Some scholars contend that educators avoid teaching controversial issues because they fear losing control or getting distracted from accomplishing the lesson (Barton & Levstik, 2004; Pace, 2019). While many teachers avoid teaching controversy (Alongi et al., 2016; Hawley et al., 2016; Ho et al., 2017; Lintner, 2018), Hawkman (2019) followed a teacher who evaluated the impact of race, ethnicity, and gender on how people see themselves and the world around them. Hawkman concluded that these topics are only as controversial as the teacher allows. **Teacher’s Race** Over half of the student population in the United States is nonwhite, and scholars expect the levels of diversity to increase (Geiger, 2018). The growing diversity, along with the civil unrest and polarization of Americans seen throughout 2020, has resulted in a less concrete definition of *democratic citizenship*. Therefore, social studies teachers must apply wise-practice principles (Orrell, 2019; Shulman, 1987) and adapt their curricula and materials to the changing times. However, race is an incredibly controversial topic and controversial issue\(^{12}\) that may cause \(^{12}\) See Ho et al. (2017) for the differences between controversial topics and controversial issues. teachers to shy away from conversations or teachings that present race at the center of controversy (Gindi & Erlich, 2017; Lintner, 2018). Citing research from neuroscientists, King et al. (2018) indicated that brains can shut down during stressful racial encounters. As previously discussed, the very curriculum and truth of race and racial history is a point of contention within the United States. Regardless, discussing race and racism in social studies classrooms is essential should teachers look to prepare their students for participation in democratic citizenship, particularly in a country as racially diverse as the United States. In 2014, 73% of millennials reported a belief in the need for open dialogue on race issues (Bouie, 2014). However, only 20% reported feeling comfortable enough to discuss race issues. If these conversations do not occur collectively in social studies classrooms, then where else can students safely learn to engage in and navigate difficult conversations on race issues and racism history? A teacher’s race does not indicate ability or skill in the classroom. However, the literature has indicated that teachers’ race can affect what they teach and how. There are certainly incredibly powerful and effective antiracist white teachers who strive to make change by presenting their students with a balanced and equitable history. However, there are likely also white teachers whose ‘not-racist’ mentality has unknowingly had a negative impact on their gatekeeping and their students’ perceptions of race history and People of Color. Similarly, some Teachers of Color who have received training and education only from white teachers with white racial lenses may pass on the history they have learned from their whitewashed texts by unknowingly perpetuating WSS. A need exists for more research on teachers’ racial lenses, their experiences, and RPCK to determine if their race impacts their curricular decisions. **White Teachers.** Systemic racism has resulted in a majority of white teachers (Fultz, 2004). Nearly 80% of those in the teaching force identify as white (Walker, 2018), while more than half of their students are nonwhite (U.S. Department of Education, 2019a). Furthermore, scholars have predicted that the number of nonwhite students will grow exponentially in the next 20 years. The disparity of nonwhite teachers indicates the need to guide white teachers in identifying their white privilege and racial lenses. White teachers must also learn more about their students’ difficulties when learning from teachers not of their race and how to work against this phenomenon with RPCK. **Teachers of Color.** Teachers of Color have alarmingly representational statistics in education, which is by no means accidental or coincidental, (Gladwell, 2021; Kendi, 2019). The U.S. Department of Education (2019a) indicated that 7% of teachers are Black, 9% are Hispanic, 2% are Asian, and 3% are Pacific Islander, Native American, or Biracial. As more than half (51%) of the student population is nonwhite, a substantial difference exists. Multiple factors contribute to the likelihood that these teacher ratios will not soon balance out regardless of their proven benefits to students: the ongoing national teacher shortage (Boyce, 2019), the low retention rates of new teachers (McLaughlin, 2018), endemic systemic racism that causes BIPOC to have an academic disadvantage to enter the profession (Gitomer et al., 2010; Shuls, 2017), the complexities of educating during a global pandemic (Anderson, 2020; Walters, 2020) and the subsequent exodus from the field due to burnout and low wages (Gomez, 2022; Walker, 2022) **Conclusion** Many scholars have addressed race, racism, racial identity, antiracism, racial apathy, and white superiority, with much of the research occurring within the social studies field. However, a gap in the literature exists on the influence of secondary social studies teachers’ race or ideologies of white superiority on their curricular choices. Because the social studies curriculum was created and taught by mostly white people until the late twentieth century (Gladwell, 2021; Kendi, 2019), I believe educators have likely (unknowingly) conveyed a lens of white superiority to all students of social studies through white social studies and normalizing white people in America’s narrative. Additionally, I posit that most teachers have not instructed students otherwise with a frame of postcolonialism and antiracism because they have likely not been guided or empowered to do so. Therefore, within the United States, every generation and every race of student up to and including the current generation has received a narrative of American history that centers on white people as the dominant, ‘normal,’ and most influential group in U.S. history. What do all children within the United States have in common, regardless of race, class, gender, or citizenship status? Education, whether private, public, virtual or homeschool. Students learn about the history and current events within the United States in social studies. The NCSS (2008) has indicated the need to educate students in all areas of social studies to prepare them to participate in democracy. Thus, it stands to reason that how students learn to see themselves and others within the democracy is the responsibility of social studies educators. Furthermore, students of democracy must understand the context of their realities by learning an unabridged version of U.S. history without the whitewash. The United States needs such education for advancement toward a 21st-century mentality. Ensuring this advancement requires examining social studies teachers and the impact of their racial lenses on how they teach and present U.S. history to future generations. CHAPTER 3 METHODOLOGY In Chapter 1, I presented the comprehensive background and need for a study on secondary social studies teachers’ racial lenses and consciousnesses and their impact on curricular decision-making within their curriculum. In Chapter 2, I provided the key definitions, supporting concepts, and literature of critical whiteness theory (CWT) as the driving framework for this study. Chapter 2 also defined foundational concepts such as racial identity, racial lens, racial consciousness, and pedagogical decision-making of educators. Exploring these components was the means of grounding this study and developing the research questions. This chapter presents the detailed process of the research design, including the methodology and tools for collecting data to answer the four guiding research questions. After the data collection, the data analysis procedure is presented and outlined, along with the study’s ethics, trustworthiness, reliability, validity, and limitations. The study aimed to explore the impact of social studies teachers’ racial lenses and racial consciousness on their curriculum. To fully explore this topic, I developed four research questions to guide the study: 1. How have current secondary U.S. history teachers experienced learning about race? 2. How do current high school U.S. history teachers interpret their racial optics? 3. How have these U.S. history teachers included or omitted their views of race within their curriculum? 4. How have these teachers been guided on decentralizing the white narrative from American history or including diversity in their curriculum, if at all? Qualitative researchers apply the theoretical framework to collect data, draw conclusions, and find results about particular research questions. Maxwell (2013) described the nature of qualitative research design as flexible, inductive, and reflexive. Qualitative research is a standard methodology within social studies education, secondary education, and curriculum and instruction. Quantitative and mixed methods studies also exist within those areas (Iglesias et al., 2017; Samuels, 2019). The goals of qualitative research include understanding the meaning of participants’ experiences in context and developing causal explanations (Maxwell, 2013). My professional opinion is that qualitative research is required to understand the complex development of racial lens and consciousness and the innumerable factors that cause teachers to decide on their content. Qualitative research is the best method to probe the story behind teachers’ racial understandings to capture the complex and nuanced picture of their curricular choices and their implications. Intersecting CwT and pedagogical decision-making is a means of gaining insight into the impact of these elements on how educators present racial history within the United States’ narrative. How educators present history could directly influence the racial perceptions of millions of U.S. students. **Method Overview** This study has a critical phenomenological interview approach. A phenomenological interview is distinctive from other methods as it ‘combines life-history interviewing…and focused, in-depth interviewing informed by assumptions drawn from phenomenology’ (Seidman, 2006, p. 14). This interview method has neither a tight structure nor standard, classic lines of questioning. Instead, researchers conducting phenomenological interviews ask open-ended questions to explore the participants and their responses (Roulston, 2018; Seidman, 2006). The critical phenomenological interview (deMarrais, 2004) procedure was an appropriate approach for this study, as it is considered a standard of qualitative interviewing (Seidman, 2006). I chose it as my primary data collection method because of the study’s focus: the phenomenon of Chandler & Branscombe’s (2015) white social studies (WSS) and its impact on students who grow up to become teachers. Phenomenological interviews provided the opportunity to understand the participants’ educational experiences, personal memories, and professional practices. DeMarrais (2004) emphasized that researchers conducting phenomenological interviews specifically apply their chosen theories to ‘inform, enable, and constrain the qualitative interview studies they conduct’ (p. 56). Additionally, deMarrais discussed the essence of everyday experiences in people’s lives. One of the main goals of the interviews was to capture the quintessence of the participants’ every day experiences making daily curricular decisions and the impact critical whiteness may have had on their decision-making. Further, deMarrais stated that researchers must indicate the theoretical positions they ‘are assuming in their interview studies to set out how these beliefs and assumptions inform the work’ (p. 59). At the end of this chapter, I present the theoretical positionality I used to inform my work in this study. The semi structured interviews in this study had several interview protocol lines of questioning. I constructed the questions preemptively to include all the necessary data, explore the interview questions, and gather information to make conclusions. I created the interview protocols ahead of time. The semi structured approach provided flexibility and dialogue during each interaction (Merriam & Tisdell, 2016). Data Collection In structuring the study, I deferred to Roulston’s (2018) five steps for designing studies with qualitative interviews (see Figure 2). Additionally, to structure the method of this critical phenomenological interview study, I employed Seidman’s (2006) three-interview series wherein interview one establishes the context of the participant’s experiences, the second interview asks participants to apply their experiences to their current context, the third interview guides participants to reflect on the meaning of their experiences (p.21). Figure 3 Roulston’s Five Steps for Designing Studies With Qualitative Interviews - Ensure interview data is well suited to the research questions - Consider criteria for participant selection - Develop interview guides aligning to the interview tradition - Gain consent for research - Recruit participants and schedule interviews Note. Adapted from Roulston, K. (2010). *Reflective interviewing: A guide to theory and practice*. Sage. Knowing that the study’s purpose should shape the content of the interview (Suzuki et al., 2007), I developed interview questions based on the purpose of the study I described at the beginning of this chapter. The interviews took place via Zoom. I anticipated three 60-to-120-minute interviews per person following the three-step interview process (Seidman, 2006). First, I utilized empirical phenomenological research (Rudestam & Newton, 2015) to develop my interview questions to collect detailed descriptions of the participant’s experiences with the phenomenon of white social studies, either in their educations or in their teaching. Second, I used open-ended questions and dialogue during the semi structured interviews which reflectively analyzed and interpreted the participant’s story to ‘describe the structure of the experience,’ (Rudestam & Newton, 2015, p.43). **Developing Interview Guides** In her third step, Roulston (2018) describes that the interview guides must be carefully constructed to gather honest and reliable data from the participants. This goes beyond simply asking open-ended questions in a semi structured format. Instead, an interview tradition or typology must be decided upon so the researcher can ensure the quality of their work. I have subscribed to a neo-positivist typology of conceptions in qualitative interviews (Alvesson, 2003; Roulston, 2010). Methodologically, the neo-positivist interviewer takes on a neutral role and does not express their views on the topic within the interviews (Roulston, 2010), minimizing their influence and allowing the participant to speak openly and honestly. For example, while I disclosed my subjectivity and positionality at the end of this chapter, I did not disclose it to the participants until I completed data collection so I could avoid the participant editing their responses based on my opinions, thus minimizing bias in the data. Roulston (2010) further emphasizes that there should be multiple interviews and data collection methods to ensure the quality of research, and the interview guides should be constructed without leading the participant (p. 205). **Participants** **Recruitment.** After obtaining approval from the Internal Review Board (IRB) to conduct the study initially in June of 2021 (Appendix D), I distributed the advertisement flier for the study via personal contacts, email, social media forums, and pages (e.g., Facebook and Reddit), snowball sampling, and schools wherein I have professional references and contacts. I distributed the flier in late July through the end of August 2021. However, I did not receive many qualified applications – I suspect because the timing of the participant recruitment aligned with the beginning of the school year when educators are often especially overwhelmed. I also determined a need for a general survey element in the data collection and analysis, which I will discuss later in this chapter. Therefore, I withdrew my postings, drafted and finalized the survey, determined how to best attract interview participants, and resubmitted my approval from the IRB. I received approval in October 2021, at which point I reposted the flier with an updated set of requirements and increased participant compensation. I again began advertising on Facebook and Reddit forums and pages in early November and, within weeks, received fifty-two completed applications from secondary social studies teachers across the United States. **Selection.** Purposeful participant selection could have a significant impact on the study’s results. Maxwell (2013) indicated the need for typicality, heterogeneity, uniqueness, and the ability to establish productive relationships when choosing study participants. Because of the proposed topic under study, I carefully considered if I should limit the participants to solely white teachers. The purpose of the study was to understand the impact of social studies teachers’ racial perspective on their curriculum and determine if white social studies is perpetuated in current classrooms. Therefore, the study did not require the participants to be of a certain race in the selection process. Like any students, Teachers of Color have learned from white and BIPOC teachers, and their racial lens is informed by much more than their racial identities. Thus, the study was open to participants from any racial demographic if the participant had two or more white social studies teachers in their education. The desired sample was between five and 10 participants. However, I remained receptive to including more or less depending on the results of the recruitment and selection process. Upon receiving the 52 applications, I first narrowed the pool of applicants based on their completion of the selection process form (Appendix E) as well as the inclusion criteria: - currently teaching sixth- to 12th-grade U.S. History or American history elective - educated within the United States - learned U.S. history from two or more white teachers - certified in social studies - self-described as candid, open, and honest - can provide documentation/samples of their curricula - accessible virtually (e.g., Zoom) After this process eliminated a few applicants, I began sorting the applicants based on the U.S. region, aiming for equal representation from two or more areas. Once arranged, I narrowed the applications based on several other pertinent factors: the applicant’s answers about their willingness to be open and honest, the types of courses they taught, and the extent of autonomy in their curriculum decisions. These eliminated several more applicants, and 28 remained viable. Of the 28 invitations I sent to join the study, 21 accepted and were sent consent forms (see Appendix F) and questionnaires (see Appendix G) that would later provide me with background data on their demographics, teaching experiences, training, and personal social studies education. Of those applicants, 10 completed all the requirements. I eliminated one participant because they were the only remaining applicant from the West Coast; since I wanted equal representation from varying regions and already had three participants each from the Midwest, East Coast, and the Southern United States, I thanked the West Coast applicant, and I dismissed them from the study. This process took me approximately 17 days. Participant Profiles I developed profiles based on their participant application and questionnaire with nine participants for this study. I had three participants from three regions in the United States: the Midwest, the South, and the East Coast. Two participants identified as females, and seven identified as males. All were given the option to choose their pseudonym or would be assigned one. In addition, there were eight white participants and one Person of Color – specifically South Asian. Figure 3 is where I depict the participants in more detail before I present the findings so that readers can consider the context of their identity and upbringing. For these profiles, I also use the participants’ wording to portray themselves to allow the reader further insight into their self-identity and personality. East Coast Participants. Charles. Charles is a white male in his 30s living in an urban city in the eastern United States. He holds a master’s degree, works at a private high school in a lower-middle-class area, and teaches A.P. U.S. history. His responses were often brief and somewhat rushed in pacing – rarely pausing to consider his thoughts before speaking, yet he gave his answers confidently and succinctly. Charles was the participant with whom I had the most difficulty establishing a more personal rapport. Being raised in a large, urban, East Coast environment, his speech patterns and response times were fast-paced and curt, and I got the sense that, unlike the other participants, he held little personal interest in the study itself. This conclusion came from multiple responses that were keenly unlike any of the other participants. For example, he stated at the end of the first interview that he appreciated my work but was “in it for the money the whole time….this is my Christmas gifts right here.” Also, unlike the other participants, when given opportunities to ask me questions at the end of each interview, he declined and was seemingly anxious to move on with his day, which is understandable yet distinct from the other eight participants. While I recognize I based this purely on my interpretation of his tone, he was also the only participant who declined to describe himself on a personal level but instead left any self-identifiers to be professional. As an educator, he interpreted himself as “a very flexible teacher when it comes to the way I deliver material…in that I want my students to be the most successful possible.” **Ellen.** Ellen is a white woman in her 30s who teaches 7th and 8th-grade social studies in a rural public school on the United States East Coast. The school she teaches in consists of 100% white students and teachers and is classified as Title 1. Ellen has worked at the school for her entire career and is currently taking courses for a master’s degree in social studies. She plans her curriculum autonomously and has been educated exclusively by white secondary teachers. Ellen was one of two females in the study and the only white woman. She spent time describing her higher education process and how she came into teaching. Ellen went to school for an agricultural degree. After graduation, she obtained a ‘backdoor certification’ wherein she was hired as a teacher with a conditional certificate but needed to complete specific courses and the PRAXIS within two years of teaching. She was hired three days before the start of school and taught several different content areas. Ellen was completing her M.A. in social studies at the time of our interview and was a current NBCT applicant. She held a valuable point of view that was unlike any of the other participants in that she was born, raised, and still lives in a small, rural East Coast town that has a population of 100% white people. Her students, the faculty, and even daily interactions with people at stores or restaurants are 100% white. Being raised and educated with and by white people with no exposure to People of Color was of great interest to me during this study, mainly because she frequently referenced her online master’s courses that focused on racial consciousness. She often acknowledged her lack of exposure to diversity. She, therefore, was “afraid to say the wrong thing because I’m worried I’m going to offend somebody” concerning her course interactions with others in her master’s program. She also described herself as ‘not racist’ during several parts of the interviews\textsuperscript{13}. \textbf{Kenny}. Kenny is a white male in his 30s living on the United States East Coast. He teaches in an urban high school with a highly diverse student body and a faculty/staff consisting of mostly white people. Kenny earned his master’s degree in Urban Education, so he spent much of his graduate coursework learning to teach various racial and socio-economic groups. Kenny identified himself as a “cis-gender white male.” His language usage indicated to me that he considers himself a progressive and inclusive person. He was raised in a highly ranked school district, and within the first ten minutes of interview one, he showed himself to be well-spoken, fluent with academic terminology, and regarded teaching as more of a vocation than a career. He confidently stated that he is: definitely aware of my privilege. I’m not one hundred percent aware of it; I don’t think I ever can be as a person living with it. I’m not sure that I can ever fully grasp what this privilege has done for me, but I can definitely…appreciate that I have it. Kenny discussed early in the first interview his passion for writing, reading, and storytelling, which drew him to social studies. He attended a major university in a large, diverse, East Coast city for his undergraduate and a “crunchy” ivy league school for his teacher education program and master’s degree. \textbf{Midwest Participants.} \textit{Nate}. Nate is a white male in his 40s who has taught social studies for over twenty years. He teaches U.S. history at a suburban, public high school in the Midwest, and his community is \textsuperscript{13} As discussed in previous chapters, ‘not racist’ has become a coined identifier by many antiracists as one who may be in denial of or ignorant towards their inherent bias or racism. The rationale behind this mentality as being ‘code’ for antiracists to capture the racial lens/consciousness of others is the use of the quantifier ‘but’ as in, ‘I’m not racist, but…’ which negates the former statement and validates the latter. This attempts to excuse the racist behavior/thinking/action/mindset at the end of that sentence. See Hawkman, 2020; Kendi, 2020. generally more rural, conservative, and predominantly white. Nate holds a master’s degree and collaborates with his department to design common assessments and pacing guides, yet works autonomously to develop his content methods and resources. As the oldest and the longest-practicing participant, Nate is an experienced practitioner with an ongoing passion for his education and that of his students. He was born and raised on a farm in the Midwest and lives near where he grew up - a small town, two hours from the closest metropolitan city. He chronicled his childhood as “unique,” with grandparents who actively befriended a Black family, “unheard of” in the 1950s rural Midwest. Having been raised with Friends of Color, his mother raised Nate to “look at people’s hearts rather than skin color.” As a result, he is an educator that tries to make his students “feel welcome. Make them feel loved.” He described himself as “very apolitical,” loves “studying other people’s culture,” and sees “people are people, but they’re different.” Steve. Steve is a white male in his 30s who teaches at a public, suburban high school in the Midwest. He has a master’s degree and has taught social studies for 12-15 years. Steve is the only teacher in the study who teaches a U.S. history elective course – *1960s America*—which has 10th through 12th graders. As an elective, he has complete autonomy over his curriculum. He also teaches world history and geography. He has taught and will again soon teach standard American history courses. He articulated that he is interested in non-white populations who are reflective of the students he teaches: I’m interested, like, because my…youth was spent around all white people….I’m very interested in what makes up who they are. And that doesn’t have to do about race, but like, I can see similarities between my youth and white kids. But I can see that there’s a difference….I want to connect with them in whatever way that I can….I’m open to…learning things that, that they’re interested [in]. Thomas. Thomas is a white male high school U.S. history teacher in his 30s from the Midwest. He teaches in a rural, public, middle-class high school with a 95% white student population and 100% white faculty and administration. He has a master’s degree, has been teaching for 8-11 years, and designs his curriculum autonomously. Thomas was raised in a midwestern, middle-class home in an area that has historically voted ‘blue’ but now identifies as ‘Trump country” where farming is prevalent and diversity is not. Politically, he says he is “a moderate” who has “moved farther away from the Republican Party as a result of…nominating Trump and electing him and that platform.” He discussed the extent of his introspection and further education, which exposed him to innovative ideas, particularly regarding class. He labeled himself a “nerd” because he takes an interest in reading about the 1940s and 1950s American housing policies, which he said educated him about his white and economic privilege. Southern Participants. Amina. Amina identifies herself as a South-Asian female in her 20s. She has a bachelor’s degree and teaches at a charter school in a suburban Southern state with a high level of diversity. Amina also is Muslim and wears a headscarf, which she discusses during her interviews. She grew up economically privileged with immigrant parents and lived on the East Coast and in several Southern states. Amina was the youngest participant and the only Person of Color in the study. I was grateful for her involvement, participation, and willingness to share her unique perspective and stories. Amina was an energetic and engaging interviewee, and her excitement was almost contagious. She grew up in the southeastern region of the United States in “white suburbia,” where she attended a charter school in an “affluent part” of a major Southern city. Amina moved to another Southern state a few years ago and has since resided in a suburban area near a major metropolis. She characterized herself as “not very timely,” “not a planner,” and “very visibly different” because she is a darker-skinned Muslim woman who wears a headscarf. While her parents immigrated to the United States, she was born here and raised with values from both cultures. **Nolan.** Nolan is a white male in his 30s teaching at a suburban school near a major city in the Southern region of the United States. His school is highly diverse, with no majority of one racial grouping in the student body, and he teaches 11th grade A.P. U.S. history. Nolan spent time describing experiences in high school when he outwitted his teachers. He relayed several stories about times he either corrected them or came away from their classes to discover that what he had learned from them was inaccurate. He also described his love of learning and quest for knowledge. Nolan expressed having more interest in economic divides than racial/cultural divisions, although he was aware they overlapped. His “love of history more than the kids at the time” brought him into social studies education. He admittedly was confused about race and expressed that his perception of racial identity was more along cultural lines. While Nolan lives in a highly diverse suburb of a major Southern city and has a multi-racial student population, he described himself as “unaware of race as a concept.” He stopped short of identifying himself as colorblind but acknowledged that he is unobservant in noting race when encountering people. **Wyatt.** Wyatt is a white male in his 20s and teaches U.S. history in a Southern state. He is the only participant to hold a doctorate (in Curriculum & Instruction) and is also the most novice educator, with about two years of teaching experience. Wyatt was born and raised in the South, and lives in a highly diverse major Southern city, Wyatt described himself as a “patriot.” He began teaching in January of 2020, just a few weeks before the COVID-19 pandemic would change education’s structure, focus, and method. Having completed research studies for his education, Wyatt was eager and helpful to participate in the study. He recounted his negative experiences as a white male attending a predominantly Black and Latine school during his childhood. Yet, he outlined highly diverse friendships with People of Color in his neighborhood and church, namely Filipino, Vietnamese, and Nigerians. He shared with me that he was still struggling to reconcile his past difficulties with Black and Latino people with his current positive relationships with People of Color. **Data Point 1: Interviews** Since the main datapoint of this study was phenomenological interviews centering around the highly personal and potentially uncomfortable topic of race, I sought previously studies to guide my approach. I primarily used Hawkman’s dissertation (2017) and subsequent work (2020), which evaluated pre-service social studies teachers’ positionality and the lens of their whiteness. In her article *Swimming In and Through Whiteness: Antiracism in Social Studies Teacher Education* (2020), Hawkman describes her findings to be in three distinct modes: participants in the *deep end of the water* who can critique race/sim and whiteness in social studies education; participants who *tread water* – that is people who are wrestling with their evolving racial awareness and cognitive dissonance that came with it (p.16); and those who are *splashing around* – participants who kept an emotional, cautious distance from engaging with and in antiracism. This is one example of how a researcher can assess the racial lens of a participant while at the same time not quantifying that evaluation. To come to these themes and conclusions, she employed interviews, journaling, and data collection methods for her study. When establishing the process for interviews and journaling, Hawkman identified various themes and sample questions to which her pre-service students would respond. I followed Hawkman’s model in my approach to the three-interview process. **Interview One: Background and Experiences.** This interview was needed so that I could specifically collect data about research question one - *how have current high school U.S. history teachers experienced learning about race?* During this interview, I explored the participants’ educational backgrounds and how they learned about race within their educations and upbringing. To prepare for this interview, I utilized data collected from their questionnaire and followed the interview protocol I created (see Appendix H) to focus specifically on their educational background and learning of race within social studies. Because the interview was semi structured, I utilized the interview protocol as a guide rather than a rigid set of questions. In addition, the interview was phenomenological in nature; therefore, I kept my focus on gathering information on if/how the phenomenon of white social studies may or may not have been passed down to the participant. The protocol for the first interview focused on the participants’ 6th through 12th grade social studies educational experiences. I selected this topic strategically so the participant would become comfortable and familiar enough with talking with me about themselves to feel relaxed speaking truthfully, mainly since the interview content was largely biographical. After asking teachers to review their memories of courses, teachers, and their impressions of their classes from sixth grade through college, I laid the foundation for asking more personal questions by asking teachers to reflect critically on their educational experiences with race. To do this, I developed questions such as: • Do you feel your race was appropriately represented, overrepresented, or underrepresented when you learned social studies in the sixth through 12th grades? • Did you sense that any of your educators had racial biases or gravitated towards one race over others? I also focused on how the in/exclusion of race in social studies education may have impacted their perceptions. **Interview Two: Racial Lens.** This interview focused on collecting data to answer research question two: How do current high school U.S. history teachers interpret their racial lens? While the phenomenological interview was the method of data collection, this interview was preempted by a set of journaling entries to allow the participant to self-reflect and examine their outlook on race. For many, mainly white teachers, racial reflection and self-examination is a personal process they have generally not undergone (Hawkman, 2019). Conversely, People of Color are often forced to reflect on their racial identity from an early age and throughout their lives in part to understand the varying inequities and injustices that have been/may be thrust on them based on their skin color. Since white people collectively have not had the same injustices systematically forced upon them, they may not have spent as much time reflecting on their racial identity. The second interview protocol scaffolded questioning to become more personal, focusing on how participants view their race within society and their views of other racial demographics (Appendix I). At the beginning of the interview, I asked the participants about their experiences living within the United States as a Person of Color or white person, stereotypes they may have heard or experienced, and the extent of their daily interaction with people outside their race. I also asked questions about their opinions of current events that brought race to the forefront of national conversations, such as critical race theory, Confederate monuments, and the concept of white privilege. Asking teachers how they felt about these topics, amongst others, was vital to understanding how each participant viewed race relations within the United States. It would also shed light on how aware they were of these types of diverging topics and their sensitivity to the division’s existence. For example, I asked, *What have been your reactions to the racial polarization in the last five years within the United States? Please describe your reactions from your perspective as a social studies teacher, American, and Person of Color/white person.* I anticipated that hearing answers to this question and others like it would give me significant insight into how the participant understood their racial positionality and also offer clarity on their perception of positionailities of people outside their race. In the interview, I also included a section wherein we would discuss their responses to various tools and documents I asked them to review before the interview. Amongst these instruments was the Racial Bias Implicit Association Test (IAT) developed by Harvard’s Project Implicit. The IAT “will measure attitudes and beliefs that people may be unwilling or unable to report” (Project Implicit, 1998, Overview, para. 2). The Race IAT measures race preferences (see Appendix J). While the validity of these tests has been questioned (Lopez, 2017), the results gave me a general idea of the participants’ racial bias based on their feedback. **Interview Three: Curricular Decision-Making.** The first half of interview three explored research question three - how have current secondary American history teachers included or omitted their racial lens from their curriculum? To explore this question as objectively as possible and set a precedent for the interview to be founded on truth and honesty, I began interview three with questions about the participant’s general pedagogical decisionmaking Appendix K). I asked participants first to describe their process when they sat down to plan a unit and how they, as history educators made choices about what aspects of history would be included or excluded from their lessons, given the expanse of the subject. This would encourage the teachers to approach the interview with a systematic and reflective mentality. I also asked more probing questions such as What roadblocks exist in your situation that may prevent you from teaching what or how you want, if any? and to what degree, if at all, do you disclose your political, personal, and social ideologies to your students? As the interview progressed and the level of personal questions intensified, I remained cautious about asking questions as objectively as possible so as not to cast a feeling of judgment on the participants’ answers but instead encourage them to think reflexively about the extent and depth in which they include multiple racial groups in their lessons and units. The second half of interview three focused on research question four - How have these teachers been trained or supported to decentralize the white narrative from American history and include diversity in their curriculum, if at all? Including this research question within the study would allow me to interpret if teachers have ever had formal education addressing white normativity in social studies and if they have even been interested in intentionally and systematically embedding multiple non-white groups in their lessons and units, particularly in non-traditional race-focused topics. I was also curious to know if any of their awareness of antiracism or white privilege came from their exploration or if their administration supported it. Finally, I asked questions about the types of media and books centering on racial topics they had read and whether they have ever had professional development on racism/diversity awareness. I anticipated that these answers would allow me to determine the level of investment participants had in moving towards a curriculum wherein the majority of the racial categorizations are included in every unit. **Data Point 2: Journals** Because exploring one’s racial consciousness is a very personal and reflective process, I wanted the participants to have time to reflect on their positionality privately. Therefore, I designed the journals to supplement and verify the data I would draw from the interviews. My interest in the participants’ responses was not necessarily in their self-classification but rather if their analysis of their racial lens and the level of diversity in their curriculum was consistent with what they shared with me during the interviews. Researchers use journals instead of diaries to examine emotion, introspection, and self-reflection, particularly with sensitive or taboo topics (Smith-Sullivan, 2008). I asked participants to engage with specific texts and respond to predetermined prompts so they could reflect expressly on their racial lens. Because determining and acknowledging the racial lens is a very personal process, I did not ask participants in the journals or interviews to identify their findings but rather discuss their thought processes and responses. This activity was primarily meant to prompt the participant to consider their worldview regarding race and allow them time to reflect on their opinions. Edwards (2019) described the value of reflective journaling as a contemplative practice in her chapter *Contemplative Pedagogies for Transformative Teaching, Learning, and Being*. In addition, she describes her experiences with journaling throughout her career and the social-emotional development within a social justice frame, allowing her to explore her thoughts and feelings on complex topics. …I would frequently find myself flustered with feelings of anger, resentment, or frustration when I encountered prejudice, ignorance, or even critique. However, because of my reflective journaling practice, I find myself becoming more grounded and self-confident, less reactionary, better able to articulate my perspectives, and, as a whole, more equipped to pursue this work (p.333). Certainly, journaling is a reflective process for any person, let alone a teacher examining their racial lens and its impact on decisions in their classroom. I expected it would offer insight into their innermost thoughts and processes in dealing with complex realities. To guide participants on their path of self-reflection, I offered them a series of journal prompts (see Appendix L) that required them to interact and react to racial consciousness documents (see Appendices A, B, and C). While many racial lens spectrums have been created to help explain the continuum of racism and racial consciousness (see Chapter 1), there is no empirically tested and widely used method for evaluating other people’s racial lenses, nor, arguably, should there be one. Evaluating and determining racial lens and the levels to which one may hold racial bias is a personal, introspective process. It is not for others to assess on behalf of those with whom they interact. This is not to say that participants’ racial lens cannot be examined or even evaluated or corroborated, as in the case of this study. However, a tool to do so has not yet been scientifically validated. Some of these prompts centered on their experience taking the discussed Racial Bias IAT. The prompts asked for their responses to the assessment process and its outcomes. It is essential to understand that for this study, I was not interested in the result of the test but rather the participants’ *reaction* to their result – looking for attitudes of defensiveness, confidence, surprise, comfort, relief, confusion, or distress. Other prompts asked participants about their responses to Peggy McIntosh’s (1989) essay *White Privilege: Unpacking the Invisible Knapsack*, the *Race Reporting Guide* from Race Forward (2015) (see Appendix N for both documents) and Hesse’s *The 8 White Identities* (Sargent & Rico, 2021a, 2021b). I had 10 journal prompts (see Appendix L) that guided and revealed the participants’ thinking about their positionality and racial lens with how they see themselves. These prompts were sent and received via email throughout the 2 months I collected interview data. **Data Point 3: Curriculum Analysis** I conducted a curricula analysis to gauge the scope by which participants include/omit their racial lens from their curricula and verify that the answers they gave me during the interviews were not inaccurate or misrepresented. Document analysis is a widely used qualitative research design method and is often used in conjunction with interviews further to substantiate the data (Kahlke, 2014). I was examining the conduit between the teacher and their students. Because documents serve as receptacles of instruction and agents of purpose (Prior, 2008), they were the best resource for me to examine the intention authentically and potential outcomes of if/how teachers impart their racial lens within their curricula. While a complete curriculum analysis is beyond this study’s scope, I requested the best samples of each participant’s curriculum they used over the semester, according to specific criteria (see Appendix O). These samples ranged from lesson plans, primary/secondary resources, assignments, assessments, or other materials that may reflect the teacher’s curriculum for the semester. These samples were collected either via email or uploaded to Google Classroom. I designed a rubric (see Appendix P) that evaluated the curriculum. I based my design and criteria of the rubric on several existing models of racially-inclusive curriculum building: The Metropolitan Center for Research on Equity and the Transformation of Schools (2019), The Equity Literacy Institute (2017), and Hanover Research (2020). I also drew from several scholarly works that defined multi-cultural content (Banks, 2019; Gorski, 2009) and its best implementation practices (Chandler & Hawley, 2017; Darling-Hammond, 2017; Gorski, 2017, Shelton & Melchior, 2018). My rubric notes specific instances where examples from multiple race groups from history are included or excluded, allowing me to determine if the curriculum focuses specifically on white people, non-white people, or some of each. The rubric has six criteria: Content: Variety; Content: Perspective; Content: Equity; Normalization; Critical Lens; and Impact on Diverse Perspectives. Assessing impact is also necessary when evaluating curriculum (Jansen & Reddy, 1994). I also specifically chose to offer ‘bonus points’ for authorship of resources that included BIPOC. This last section was offered as bonus points because I am aware that some white scholars are intentional about critically examining whiteness and unburdening People of Color who often carry the arduous task of decentralizing the white narrative in social studies (Chandler & Branscombe, 2015; Hawkman, 2017; Zinn, 2008; 2020). That is an essential aspect of critical whiteness and moving towards antiracism. Ideally, social studies educators learn from these scholars how to work towards dismantling white normativity in secondary social studies. At the same time, I wanted to encourage and emphasize the importance of Authors of Color, particularly when it comes to the writing and teaching of their own racial group’s history. Therefore, in my curriculum evaluation, if a participant’s curriculum reflected authorship by People of Color, they were allotted extra points in determining if their curriculum reflected a multiple race narrative. This system also ensured teachers were not penalized if I could not determine the race of the documents/curriculum provided to me in the sampling. **Data Point 4: Survey** Because of this study’s qualitative nature and the subjectivity expected to occur when examining how teachers’ racial lens may impact their curricular choices, I wanted to find another data point that would validate and ensure consistency amongst the interview answers given by my participants. The survey was a summation of the entire three-interview process. It asked teachers to reflect on their learning of race, their perspectives on contemporary racial topics, and their inclusion/omission of racial perspectives within their content. I also wanted to compare the data I would be collecting from my participants with that of other secondary social studies teachers across the United States. Therefore, I created a brief survey that was not only taken by the nine participants upon concluding their final interview but also distributed over social media. The survey (see Appendix Q) consisted of 30 questions: 12 regarding demographics and personal information, three regarding their own educational experiences in learning social studies, seven regarding their personal beliefs on issues surrounding race, and eight regarding their pedagogical beliefs and practices. The survey was available over Qualtrics XM and took an average of ten minutes to be completed. **Data Analysis** I chose phenomenological interview as the primary data point to capture the essence of the participants’ firsthand experiences, curricular decision-making, and interpretations of their perceptions of race. Because of the richness of my data collection, I took extreme care during the data collection and analysis to ensure I was as thorough and open as possible. Consequently, the data analysis phase lasted from January through April 2022. Due to the depth of the results, I have opted to include my process for data analysis in this chapter. **Interviews** Participants were informed before each interview that I would assign them a pseudonym. Their location and other identifying factors would be kept confidential to protect their identity and encourage them to be open and honest about their experiences, beliefs, and racial acumen. I used Zoom and Otter.ai to conduct all interviews with audio and visual recording, with the participants’ consent and knowledge. During the interviews, I wrote memos (Miles et al., 1994; Saldaña, 2021) to record my initial findings, noting poignant quotes from the participants and taking note of prevailing emotions, language, and sentiments relayed during the interviews. Immediately after each interview, I continued my memo-writing to note my initial impressions and critical moments that stood out to me as I reflected on the conversation. I also took notes about each participant’s overall impression in my memos. I developed descriptive initial codes from this practice that would later initiate the entire coding cycle. I then was able to code according to Hahn’s (2008) levels of coding (see Figure 4) with multiple cycles per level (see Tables 2, 3 and 4). Once I completed all the interviews, I employed an exploratory method—provisional coding—which allowed me to begin the coding cycles (Miles et al., 1994). First, I applied structured coding with the list of predetermined, a priori codes I anticipated using based on my research questions and what I had already heard repeated throughout the interviews. I read through the interview transcripts during the first level of coding with this list of codes collected on NVivo 12 data analysis software. Then, as I read the transcripts line-by-line, seeking the predetermined codes, I applied open coding by remaining watchful for emergent codes and subcodes that arose from the data. Figure 5 Hahn’s Level of Coding Note. Reprinted figure from Hahn, C. (2008). *Doing qualitative research using your computer*. SAGE Publications, Ltd. Table 2 Process for Interview Data Collection and Analysis | Analysis Method | First Cycle → | Identified Codes | Second Cycle → | Identified Codes | |-----------------|---------------|-----------------|----------------|-----------------| | **Level 1 Coding** | Provisional coding → | Attitude Physical Location RQ1 – Learn about Race Documents RQ2 – Racial Lens RQ3 – Practice RQ4 - Training | Structured coding → | Attitude – Positive/Negative RQ1 – Diversity Exposure RQ1 – Teacher Ed. program RQ2 – Awareness RQ2 – Mentality RQ2 – Positionality | | | Descriptive initial codes → | Effects of Study Journals Race-Based Terms Pedagogy | Open coding → | Effects of Study: - Effects of Journaling - Future Choices - No Change - Positive Race-Based Terms: - Ally - Antiracist - Not-Racist - Ignorance - Lack of Exposure | | Level 2 Coding | In vivo coding → “I’m not racist but…” “People are people” | Values Coding → Bias Apathy Antiracist thinking Ally thinking Racial Lens Toward Others Diversity Privilege Whiteness | |----------------|----------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------| | Level 3 Coding | Narrowed codes, subcodes, and simultaneous codes → Secondary Ed Experience Higher Ed Experience TEP Professional Experience Racial Lens – aware Racial Lens – unaware Racial Lens - apathy | Developed themes and subthemes → Support Roadblock Levels of Exposure to Race Personal Interest Racial Optics - Consciousness - Subconsciousness - Apathy | | Level 4 Coding | Evaluate all underlining themes to determine the common theoretical concepts: white normalization; racial optics; learning about race; hinderances; pedagogy + practice | Note: The above codes are not an exhaustive list of the codes I utilized and discovered, as the full listing of codes, subcodes and simultaneous codes was 179. However, I provide a general overview of the codes I most frequently utilized to offer the reader an example of the process I used. Table 3 Process for Journals Data Collection and Data Analysis | Level 1 Coding | Data | Identified Codes | |----------------|------|-----------------| | | Open coding for descriptive codes | 8 white identities IAT McIntosh Race Forward Racism Scale Spectrum | | Level 2 Coding | Applied a priori codes from interviews | “I’m not racist but…” “People are people” | | Level 3 Coding | Narrowed codes, subcodes, and simultaneous codes | Whiteness, awareness, whitewash, white identity, | | Level 4 Coding | Evaluated all underlining themes to determine common theoretical concepts | Racial identity, racial lens, perspective, awareness, | Note: The above codes are not an exhaustive list of the codes I utilized and discovered, as the full listing of codes, subcodes and simultaneous codes was 179. However, I provided a general overview of the codes I most frequently utilized to offer the reader an example of the process I used. Table 4 Process for Curriculum Analysis Data | Prior to Data Collection | Data Collection | Data Analysis | |--------------------------|-----------------|---------------| | Level 1 | Conducted prior to curriculum analysis | Developed curriculum profile for each participant | | Level 2 | Conducted during curriculum analysis | Analyzed using rubric | | Level 3 | Post curriculum analysis | Determined the level of non-white perspectives and history present in the curriculum using the rubrics scoring guide | I moved into the second level of coding, using in vivo coding to identify significant phrases and quotations, referring to my memos for guidance, and remaining open to new quotes and words that emerged. I continued to cycle through the data, each time searching for new codes that may have been overlooked. Toward the end of the second level, I applied a method to find specific data that concentrated on values. Values coding allows the researcher to explore cultural values, identity, and intra- and interpersonal participant experiences and actions (Miles et al., 1994). After cycling through the data several times, I moved on to level three coding, in which I narrowed and condensed my codes, subcodes, and simultaneous codes to develop themes and subthemes for the interview data set. Finally, at level four, I narrowed my theme to the main findings informed by all the data points. During the study, the participants engaged with three sets of journal prompts (see Appendix L). After completing the interviews and collecting all three journal entries via Google Classroom, I spent the first coding cycle utilizing open coding to develop descriptive codes and noted compelling quotations from the text. During the second coding cycle, I used the *a priori* codes I had listed in NVivo for the interviews and drew out text that applied to those codes. I then condensed and narrowed my codes and subcodes and engaged with the text using discourse analysis, examining how the participants expressed themselves in the journals versus what they said during the interviews. **Curriculum Analysis** The curriculum samples were submitted via Google Classroom or emailed directly to me. I approached the data analysis process for the curricula as I would for any curriculum analysis based on Fitzpatrick et al.’s (2011) program evaluation. I created an assessment rubric and corresponding scoring guide (Appendix P) that would allow me to view the complete set of documents I collected from each participant. I would also use it to determine how the curriculum reflected a multiple-race approach toward U.S. history, if at all. I created the rubric based on several established sources that have been used to analyze curricula for multiple racial groups to teach students history (Lawrence & Tatum, n.d.; Parker & Wilsea, 2019; Tatum, 1992.). Additionally, I consulted resources from existing curriculum designs and evaluations from the NYU Metropolitan Center for Research on Equity and the Transformation of Schools (2019), the Interaction Institute for Social Change (2019), the Education Justice Research and Organizing Collaborative (2020), and the New York Collective of Radical Educators and Inquiry Action Groups (2009). Using the rubric as the final assessment of the curriculum analysis, I took a backward-design approach (Wiggins & McTigue, 1998) and then created a curriculum profile for each participant (see Figure 5), which included each document (or entire units for those that offered their comprehensive course curriculum). After sorting through all the documents given to me by the participant and after creating their curriculum profile, I utilized the rubric based on criteria from several established sources. I reviewed criteria from the aforementioned organizations and resources and merged overlapping ideas to reflect the best of these tools in assessing if and how racial diversity is present in the curriculum. These sources based their curricular analyses on criteria such as a variety of BIPOC voices being conveyed in the content, the authorship of classroom resources to include People of Color, and the perspective from which the content is seemingly presented, among others. After completing the rubric based on the curriculum profile, I tallied each participant’s scores using the guide I designed and concluded the levels of non-white perspectives and history within each participant’s curriculum. I then compared how the participants described their curriculum and its racially diverse perspectives in their journals and interviews with what their curriculum reflected. Figure 6 Curriculum Profile Sample for Each Participant | Participant | Resource Type | Title of document | Source | Race Groups Discussed | Race of the Main Narrative | Portrayal of nonwhite racial groups | Portrayal or Depiction of white people | Racial Perspective Presented | Critical racial Lens? | Impact on Multicultural Perspectives | |-------------|---------------|-------------------|--------|-----------------------|----------------------------|-------------------------------------|--------------------------------------|------------------------|---------------------|----------------------------------| | | Assessment; unit lesson plan; activity; presentation/lecture slides; etc. | | Is the resource original, designed by the department or from an outside resource? | | Positive, neutral/facts-only, or negative | Positive; neutral/fact-only, negatively | BIPOC; white Neutral/facts-only based | Yes Some Not much No | Yes Some Not much No | Note: I required a minimum of six samples from each participant’s curriculum. I developed this curriculum profile based on resources from the following: NYU Metropolitan Center for Research on Equity and the Transformation of Schools (2019), the Interaction Institute for Social Change (2019), the Education Justice Research and Organizing Collaborative (2020), and the New York Collective of Radical Educators and Inquiry Action Groups (2009). Survey The survey was available from December 2021 through the end of March 2022. I posted to various social media forums and groups whose participants were social studies educators. While I posted in four Reddit groups, most of my focus was on Facebook private and public social studies educator groups and pages. I requested permission to post the survey to 28 various groups and pages, and 17 of those approved the posting in their groups.\(^{14}\) Several groups have \(^{14}\) I only posted in groups with a neutral or open target audience to ensure the data was not biased. For example, I purposefully posted in groups with titles like ‘History Teachers,’ ‘NBCT Social Studies Support Group,’ or ‘Social Studies Critical Thinking’ but intentionally did not post to groups with names such as ‘Antiracist Educators Forum’ or ‘Black Educators Rock Social Studies’ because I did not want to target my audience based on their race or ideals. over 1000 members, bringing the total exposure of the survey to over 10,000 social studies teachers. I received 425 survey submissions, 349 of which I accepted based on the completion rate of over 50%. The participants partaking in the survey were from various locations and racial groups (Appendix T). Similar to the study’s interview participants, the only requirements to participate in the survey were that they are current secondary social studies teachers, sign the consent form, and were educated within the United States during their sixth- through 12th-grade experiences. **Quality of the Study** **Ethics** Transparency is an essential link between ethical research and reflexivity (Etherington, 2007). Transparency is a vital component of the integrity of the research process. I withheld my antiracist positionality and passion to avoid swaying the participants or causing them to alter their responses to appease or deflect my emotional responses. Maintaining objectivity as a researcher is essential for this research to have authenticity. Gilligan (1982) noted, ‘Reflexive relational ethics pays attention to the balance required between our own needs as researchers and our obligations toward, care for, and connection with those who participate in our research’ (as cited in Etherington, 2007, p. 614). I acknowledge that, as a researcher, I have an existing bias for antiracist curricula and an awareness of my white privilege. Therefore, I must recognize how to regard these biases for ethical consideration (Suzuki et al., 2007). I already knew about my biases; consequently, I reviewed the interview questions and document analyses with third-party individuals aware of the study whose personal racial lenses are unknown to me. In addition, five committee members reviewed my interview questions and protocols for data analysis and pointed out potential conflicts or unintentional bias. Reflexivity is a skill and a tool by which I can include myself within the context of my theory, research, or interpretations. Reflexivity allows for remaining transparency about personal values and beliefs and their influence on the research process (Etherington, 2007; Pillow, 2003). I worked to stay sensitive to the cultural differences in my participants’ histories or values. I am also aware of my positionality as a white female researcher; as such, I have considered that those descriptors, mainly *white* and *female*, could have influenced the comfort and candor of the interview participants. I first established myself as a social studies educator with the participants, so they felt comfortable with our commonality. **Trustworthiness** Trustworthiness is one-way qualitative researchers show themselves and their work worthy of attention from the field (Lincoln & Guba, 1985; Nowell et al., 2017). This study’s credibility required several realities. Primarily, prolonged engagement occurred over a year, from start to finish, with a data collection phase over several months and the data analysis lasting twice as long. Second, the data collection underwent triangulation with several data points, overlapping their insight to address the research questions. Finally, the study underwent a peer review with five committee scholars. The committee scholars are individuals professionally and ethically bound to ensure that the research process, methods, tools, findings, and interpretations are to the highest standards of scholarly work. **Reliability and Validity** Reliability and validity have distinct roles in qualitative and quantitative research. Reliability in qualitative research is the quality of the study to produce understanding Validity in qualitative research consists of gaining knowledge and experience of the phenomenon’s meaning, attributes, and characteristics (Agar, 1986; Krefting, 1991). The similarities of the terms have caused researchers to couple them in qualitative research (Golafashani, 2003). However, Maxwell (2013) contended that clarity and the value of each require the inclusion of validity in a separate section. Therefore, I approached these two concepts separately to substantiate my declarations of the study’s reliability and validity. **Reliability.** Merriam’s (1998) definition of reliability is ‘the extent to which research findings can be replicated’ (p. 205). While this study occurred in a unique place and time, other scholars can certainly repeat its procedures, methods, and tools. Like all human-based research, the findings will vary from person to person, and a level of generalizability should be considered. All people have some level of insight or ability to analyze their racial lens and consciousness or can do so. Similarly, while teachers’ curricular decision-making is a process unique to each individual, the process itself generally stems from the teachers’ training programs, departmental allowances, pedagogical goals, and state standards that all teachers undergo. Lincoln and Guba (1985) contended that considering the reliability of a study requires examining the consistency of the data results. They noted that it is less pertinent for other researchers to produce the same results because studies with human participants result in unique data. Instead, others will validate the study’s results as consistent and dependable. **Validity.** Merriam (1998) described many researchers’ faulty logic that reliability and validity are exchangeable. As such, they could assume that a study ‘is more valid if repeated observations in the same study or replications of the entire study have produced the same results’ (p. 205). Scholars can, of course, repeat being wrong. Internal validity for this study occurred via triangulation, peer examination, detailed, thick descriptions, and researcher biases (Merriam, 1998). External validity, or generalizability, does not require scholars to replicate the findings from single cases or specific situations with other people. Instead, it requires researchers to replicate the methods and procedures in studying the effects of the shared phenomenon on various people within the inclusion criteria. That said, scholars will have the ability to and should replicate this study for further research on the phenomenon of WSS. At the same time, this study and its findings have their basis in solid foundations and methods. The results are meaningful and insightful for teachers, researchers, policymakers, and teacher educators. **Triangulation** Multiple types of data collection strategies occurred in this study. The approaches overlapped in terms of thematic analysis. Therefore, data triangulation reduced the risk that the conclusions would reflect the bias of one specific method. Triangulation also provided the opportunity to gain a deeper understanding of the phenomenon of WSS (Maxwell, 2013). Triangulation does not always result in reduced bias (Suzuki et al., 2007). However, this study’s extensive and varied methods produced unbiased conclusions on the impact of a racial lens on educators’ curricular choices. **Limitations** A beneficial data point of this study would be to evaluate the participants’ students to discover the impact of their teachers’ racial lenses and curricular decisions. After all, learning about the effects on student behavior and perceptions of race could contribute to the broader purpose and indicate the influence of a teacher’s racial lens and curricular choices on students’ views and understanding of race. However, such a study would be a significant undertaking. Although this is an important topic to explore, examining students’ learned perceptions first requires evaluating their social studies knowledge source: their teachers. **Positionality and Subjectivity Statements** Traditional methodological approaches require the role of the researcher to remain distant from the participants. However, Sherif (2001) noted that scholars have begun to recognize the effects of a researcher’s self on ‘every aspect of the research process, from conception to final interpretation’ (p. 437). Thus, there is a blurred boundary between my role as the researcher and my positionality in this study. A vital need exists to establish researchers’ positionality for themselves and the reader regarding insider/outsider status (Sherif, 2001; Suzuki et al., 2007). I must also identify the potential effects of firsthand experiences, beliefs, and professional predispositions on the research so readers can remain aware and critical of this study’s credibility (Preissle, 2008). Therefore, I have identified and will now articulate my personal, professional, and researcher positionality and acknowledge any potential subjectivity. **Professional** I decided to become a secondary social studies teacher for two main reasons. The first was to ensure that U.S. high school students did not learn a false narrative of U.S. history as I had. The U.S. history I learned contained the whitewashing of the nation’s development, the over-sensationalism of U.S. patriotism, and the omission of various multi-cultural perspectives. Second, I wanted to teach and inspire high schoolers to be participatory, informed citizens. Fifteen years after my initial certification, these motives remain just as pressing. I intentionally spent all my teaching career in low socio-economic schools with highly diverse populations to develop my identity and a continued commitment to social justice, tolerance, and a global perspective. I am a middle-class white woman who believes in activism. I’ve made concerted efforts to ensure I work at schools with at-risk populations to inspire and guide students to learn a fully informed history. Students must understand the context of today’s societal problems, many of which Students of Color confront daily, to work toward a remedy. **Educational** I must discuss my background with learning about and experiencing the phenomenon of white social studies, which was my motivation to become a social studies teacher and conceptualize my white privilege. As a first-year college student, I first read Zinn’s (1980) *A People’s History of the United States*. I felt disgusted that I had 12 years of education and had even taken A.P. U.S. History but had never learned about the atrocities of Columbus and his false glorification for discovering a country upon which he never actually set foot. My exposure to this book, given to me by my first Black educator, caused me to feel disturbed and enraged by Columbus’s depiction as a U.S. hero and his award of a national holiday. At that time, I decided to major in history to learn about the other myths I had been taught throughout my education to develop a national identity (Barton & Levstik, 2004). Sadly, I learned that many myths were the means of either glorifying white people or wholly ignoring People of Color (Loewen, 1995; Zinn, 1980). Through self-reflexive examination (Etherington, 2007; Pillow, 2003), my understanding of U.S. soldiers (from the Revolution through World War II), technological innovations in communications or travel, and even cowboys of the Wild West caused me to maintain imagery of white people because of how I was taught. I argue that I have been educated with a lens of white superiority; as such, my educators did not pass down BIPOC stories and counternarratives as a normative frame of understanding. I do not believe that my educators did this intentionally, as I have (unintentionally) taught in the same manner. When embarking on an action research project amidst my doctoral coursework (Muhlenfeld-Johnson, 2020), I experienced the situated mentality that I needed to examine my choices and practices, positionality, and white superiority. As a result, I actively chose to take on an antiracist process. Therefore, I fully understand how personal this process of self-reflection could be. However, I also recognize its significance for transforming how teachers perceive themselves and the present culture and informing future generations of the whole truths of history. **Personal** My relationship with racism in the United States is not the result of personal experience, which may or may not be a limiting factor. However, I have spent much time listening to friends and Students of Color, which has developed my empathy and awareness of how they have reconciled and combatted the prejudices they encounter. As a social studies teacher, lifelong student of history, and military wife of a combat veteran, I have a deeply rooted and personal commitment to activism and action. I take great interest in the United States’ victories, as well as its mistakes and intentional atrocities; I believe that this is an essential aspect of genuine and authentic patriotism. I also strive to help improve its future by teaching students to approach their civic participation proactively and intelligently via volunteerism, service, voting, engagement, or schooling. I have naturally merged my three passions: education, social justice, and active citizenship. Another area of identity that could have influenced this study was my pedagogy of place (Gruenewald, 2003). As a Chicago native raised in highly diverse and multi-cultural areas with little exposure to racism against my person, diverse and integrated populations feel most natural. In addition, the people who surrounded me throughout my life - my parents, friends, and husband - all grew up in similar environments with integrated mentalities and natural expectations of diversity, tolerance, and inclusion for race, sexual orientation, class, or religion. A recent relocation to Alabama caused me to open my eyes to the uniqueness of such an upbringing. I have gained a heightened awareness of the polarization felt in many parts of the country where individuals still engage in and tolerate racism. Seeing Confederate flags and monuments daily has been a new and highly uncomfortable experience, providing me with a firsthand awareness that racial divides still exist. Additionally, some individuals still celebrate racial divides as personal and cultural history with much pride. For the first time, I now grasp how it is that racism has persisted more than 150 years after emancipation. As a social studies educator taught and trained in the North by many Professors of Color, I look to my teacher counterparts in the South for their part in perpetuating and immobilizing this phenomenon. **Researcher** I am a highly reflective educator and have received formal training in research. I have often reflected on my effectiveness and methods as a National Board-Certified Teacher and a doctoral student. Therefore, I am aware of my vital role as an instrument of inquiry in this area. I know that discussing such a personal topic and asking colleagues to examine their potential biases would first require me to explore my practices, choices, and perspectives to model and determine the unintentional impact of my prejudices on my practice and students. Exploring these complex topics and learning the transformative nature of such a process requires me to examine the repercussions of white normativity on social studies education as a researcher, scholar, educator, American, and white person. For this reason, I have directed much of my academic research to explore a better understanding of the intersectionality between racial lens and pedagogical and curricular decision-making. My intention and passion are to continue this research beyond this study’s scope to define, understand, and explore the occurrences of WSS, teachers’ potential impact on WSS, and its lasting impact on the impressionable minds of the youth in the United States. **Summary** Chapter 1 presented the background and existing problematic phenomenon of WSS. Chapter 2 indicated the study’s theoretical framework of CWT, which will frame how teachers develop their racial lenses and impact on curricular choices. This chapter included the study’s methodology, participant selection, data collection and analysis, and the various aspects that will show the quality of the study. Chapters 4, 5, and 6 present the data analysis process findings, and Chapter 7 will complete the study with a discussion of the results and their meanings and impact. CHAPTER 4 FINDINGS 1: TEACHERS’ EXPERIENCES LEARNING ABOUT RACE This study focuses on the educational experiences that contributed to social studies teachers’ racial lens, consciousness development, and how said understanding may impact their curricular decisions. Learning about and questioning the racial perspectives of others and oneself is a highly personal endeavor. Nevertheless, critical phenomenological interviews and supporting data in journals, curriculum samples, and a survey allowed me to draw out valuable themes with the participants’ commonalities and variations. In this chapter, I address the first of three significant findings of my data collection and analysis: social studies teachers’ experiences in learning about race in their education. While this chapter will address research questions one and four, the next chapter will address questions two and three. Chapter 6 will also contain findings from the study, namely the intersection of Chapters 4 and 5. Finally, in Chapter 7, I conclude the study and discuss possible implications it may have on the field. To begin this chapter, I will first describe the nine participants more thoroughly, dividing them by region and describing their general experiences in secondary and higher education. I will then discuss the participants’ experiences in learning about race in several contexts: a) secondary social studies, b) higher education, c) professional development, and d) individual experiences. Then I will conclude by answering questions two and three of these four research questions: 1. How have current secondary US history teachers experienced learning about race? 2. How do current high school US history teachers interpret their racial lenses and consciousnesses? 3. How have these US history teachers included or omitted their views of race within their curriculum? 4. How have these teachers been guided on decentralizing the white narrative from American history or including diversity in their curriculum, if at all? This chapter describes the participants’ memories regarding their education specifically related to topics involving or excluding race, including notable differences between their secondary levels and higher education experiences. I will then discuss the participants’ professional experiences in learning about race, including antiracism, diversity awareness, and other support (or lack thereof) offered by colleagues and administrators. Finally, I will present the findings on how the participants experienced learning about race on a personal level, identifying common themes and outliers. As explained in Chapter 3, these participants were selected solely on their fulfillment of the participant criterion and their successful completion of the initial components of the application and participation process. I did not include race, gender, religion, marital status, or sexual identity/orientation in my selection process because I did not want those criteria to influence it. I intentionally designed interview one to collect information about the participants’ educational experiences and the impact diversity inclusion (or exclusion) may have had on the long-term memories of each person. I began the interviews by asking teachers about their education to hear their answers and establish an essential professional yet friendly rapport with each participant. I wanted to disarm potential anxieties and ensure they were comfortable speaking with me candidly about their views and experiences with race, as would be the subject of interviews two and three. To that end, I spent intentional time becoming familiar with their biographical background and chose to discuss their social studies educations because it would be a topic I expected they would easily relate to, feel comfortable and familiar with, and be able to connect with me on because I informed them that I was also a social studies educator. Interview one allowed me to understand the context and experiences that would serve as a foundation for their racial lens and consciousness. After completing the interviews, I sorted through the data with several coding levels and methods rounds described in the previous chapter, and several major themes emerged. Ultimately, one of the significant findings of this study is regarding the various experiences and impacts these secondary social studies teachers had when they were in a student-learning situation, be it secondary level, higher level, professional level, or personal level. To maintain the integrity of the study, I have centered the participants’ voices intentionally throughout this and the following two chapters to allow them to speak for themselves and minimize any researcher bias. The impact of secondary social studies teachers on their students’ awareness and perceptions of freedom, justice, citizenship, and equality cannot be understated (Alongi et al., 2016; Ho & Barton, 2020; Knowles, 2019). It stands to reason that those students may similarly be influenced regarding sociological areas such as gender or race. Because social studies teachers are gatekeepers of students’ learning of America’s history (Hawley & Whitman, 2020; Thornton, 1989), it is necessary to examine teachers’ perceptions of race to determine if they influence what and how they teach. In this study, the nine teachers that participated were all educated within the United States by primarily white teachers. This chapter will present how their social studies experiences may have influenced their perceptions of race. Educational Experiences as a Student Like any social studies teacher in the United States, the standard curriculum for learning social studies includes some variations of taking a course in world history and a course in U.S. history at both the middle-school level (sixth through eighth grade) as well as at the high-school level (ninth- through 12th grade). However, the amount, timeframe of historical context, specific content covered, and the assessment are all based on state standards, district guidelines, and departmental practices. That is to say, there are no national-level curriculum or content standards mandated for social studies at the secondary level. While the NCSS first published its national curriculum standards in 1994, these serve as guidelines and are not federally enforced. Similarly, while the NCSS has teaching standards used by various TEPs and state-level teacher requirements, they are not mandated and, therefore, not uniform across all 50 states. Secondary Education Experiences The Impact of Nondiversity in Content. I fully acknowledge that each participant recalled their experiences of the impact of diversity within their secondary education in a highly selective manner due to the amount of time that had passed since they were secondary students. While I had informed the participants that we would discuss their experiences in secondary social studies during the first interview, they were not prepared to recall how much and in what specific ways race was taught. I purposefully planned the interview this way because I wanted to capture the lasting impressions their educations had left them with rather than allow them to explore their recollections more deeply. The nine participants all recalled learning about race in one of two very distinct ways. The first is that several participants were left with a vivid impression that American history was positioned to centralize the white narrative while simultaneously avoiding the equitable inclusion of the stories of People of Color. For example, Nolan did not hesitate to describe how his secondary classes left him with the impression that Black people had already won equality with the Civil Rights Movement, indicating that there had been no further racial issues after that: There was really a lack of any kind of discussion about it. It wasn’t really something that I was consciously aware of…not that like, I didn’t know….different colors, and race and everything. But it was never really discussed or brought up. Like geography, it’s different cultures, obviously. Things like slavery were brought up, and maybe a little discrimination against freed Africans. But it was always something that was very in the past, like, Oh, that’s not today. Today, everything’s fine. And we’re all equal [emphasis added]. That was certainly the impression that I got. Though inaccurate, his experience in a Southern, suburban environment was much more advanced than Nate, a participant raised in a small rural midwestern town. Nate is the eldest participant and the newest to antiracism ideals. We never got past the Civil War….in all my classes in school. So that was the only time that it [race] was brought up. In slavery and plantations in the antebellum South, maybe Crispus Attucks in the American Revolution…and Native Americans, of course, during colonial times and westward expansion. So, I guess if we did talk about it, it was because it was in the book, or we read about it. Kenny is an East Coast teacher who grew up in one of the highest-ranking suburban districts in the country at the time and, therefore, he reported, was very “academically-oriented.” Of all the participants, Kenny was perhaps the most adamant about the absence of diversity in his learning of history, with multiple references in answering several different questions: I would say there wasn’t any real conscious effort by my teachers at that time to teach race or to teach you about racialized issues in any real sense of the word. … Even in Civil Rights—it was presented as, you know, these people back then did racist things. And then we fixed it, and it’s done. … So I remember not being exposed to talk about race, or issues between races at all, or like this idea of…race consciousness. It was not really a thing. It was just everything was taught and taken from a white perspective and presented as fact—this is the way it was. While Kenny reported not being familiar with Chandler and Branscombe’s (2015) white social studies framework, he described how he was still left with the impression that his secondary social studies experiences were precisely that: It was painted; it was so whitewashed that it was hard to see it as biased. Or it’s hard to pick up its bias because it just was presented as the way it was, right? And there was no counterpoint or counterviews… It was all through a white middle-class perspective. There was no sense of class consciousness either. No racial consciousness or class consciousness. It was just kind of like this happened. While participants’ recollections and takeaways from their secondary social studies courses may have varied, none reported remembering the inclusion of multiple races in non-traditionally taught historical topics. Some participants attributed this partially to the textbook: Amina also faults the curriculum: “it was kind of the standard. … Follow your textbook, and your textbook does not highlight different races. I feel like we just followed the one storyline.” **Impact of Educators.** For other participants, their teacher significantly influenced the curricular presentation (or lack thereof) of race. It was evident throughout the interviews that the participants had sympathy for their former educators, themselves now realizing the amount of stress and workload on teachers’ shoulders. A few participants outright defended their teachers for not being more racially inclusive. Charles reflected on his learning about the segregation of the Army during World War I: “I think… they tried their best. It was 2003. They were teaching from a textbook, you know? I think they probably made like $32,000.” Ellen attributed her teachers’ lack of diversity in the curriculum to the curriculum itself, not stating if she was aware of who developed the curriculum: “I wouldn’t say it was that my teachers were intentionally trying to, you know, push an agenda or anything, I feel like their curriculum, probably, at the time, presented it that way.” While Charles was explicitly reflecting on a beloved white teacher prior, he went on to expand his reflection to his overall learning experience in secondary social studies and the impact it had on him. He stated that he felt he’d “lucked out” to have had a smaller portion of his learning focused on the history of marginalized people, despite his education taking place in a large, diverse, East Coast city: I would say I probably wasn’t taught enough about the privilege of the white people at the time. It was more the positive stories and the glorified stuff. And then I lucked out to some 20% to 35% knowledge of smaller marginalized groups in history and things like that. And really, if I look back at it now, I’m a little upset that they hid those things from me; I would have rather got the whole picture. His white teacher’s negligence also impacted Nolan in presenting varied racial perspectives in American history and historically accurate perceptions of truth. Instead, he noted that his distrust of education resulted directly from the learning he received in his suburban Southern school: I remember eighth grade; she was my US History teacher for kind of the first half of American history. And I still remember going home and telling my parents she’s like, ‘Oh, the Civil War was not about slavery, it was about states’ rights,’ which I believed for a while, until it’s like, oh, wait, the state’s right to what? And I read the Cornerstone Speech in college, and I’m like, ‘wow, I don’t know what else from that [course] I can actually trust now.’ **Outliers.** While most participants recalled secondary social studies emphasizing white normativity, there were two outliers in two distinct yet relatable aspects. First, Charles detailed how he began to understand the inequality between racial groups in secondary US history: He would kind of point out different racial disparities and certain things throughout history as we discussed, and he did it in just a really awesome informational way…And I remember the one that really stuck with me and led me more was that People of Color didn’t get any of the New Deal programs during the Great Depression, and I was like, damn, well, that’s generational wealth right there. I just remember that always stuck with me. I was like, wow, that makes a lot of sense. So that kind of just led me to a book to just kind of dive in a little deeper history of just trying to understand all the aspects of all people in history. Though Charles did not indicate if there was anything other than the teacher that seemed to influence this curricular perspective, Wyatt interpreted his experiences with learning about race in his AP US History course: they were more geared towards college-level content, as well as teaching…the skills. They’d tell us about the missing voice. Well, what is the missing voice? You know, predominantly, women, People of Color, people that, you know, like you said, they typically might be left out whenever we’re, you know, we’ve been studying history. And so, I feel like that missing voice component for the AP curriculum really kind of touched on that. Ultimately, the secondary social studies experiences of the participants unanimously reflected the phenomenon of white social studies, indicating that regardless of urban versus rural, East Coast versus Southern, or the participant being white or a Person of Color, their white social studies teachers’ (be it intentional or not) centralized the white narrative throughout secondary levels. Steve succinctly articulated this point from his own experience, unaware it would reflect similar experiences of the other eight participants: I think it’s one of those institutionalized racism things that I only know my perspectives as a kid. And I feel like most of kids in suburban America, rural America, got the same kind of experience in how history and social studies were taught. So, I can’t speak to…the way African Americans and in the city would have been taught, but I still…that statistic that what, like 80%…. of [teachers] are white…even in areas that are predominantly a different ethnic group, they’re still being kind of taught…because that’s what the standards are. So, I feel like…my whiteness has greatly influenced the way that I look at history and the way that I teach history because it’s, it’s the prevailing view, or it has been the prevailing view…that I do see shifting. **Higher Education Experiences** While learning about race in secondary social studies generally varied for teachers based on various factors, teachers commonly reported uniformity in their undergraduate history courses and learning about race. Unanimously but unsurprisingly, all nine participants said that their undergraduate experiences in learning about race surpassed their secondary educations in range and detail. In addition, all participants reported that their undergraduate history majors required non-white history courses (i.e., Asian history, African American history) and that the requirement exposed them to a level of learning about racial history they had not realized existed in their secondary experiences. Kenny described his experience further: I really didn’t start to think about race in a serious way until I got to college. I went to a very, very, very racially diverse college, and that was…a shock. I remember being like, wow, like this actually exists as like, a real thing. . .I didn’t put any thought into it until that moment. Nate, who had described his secondary experience as never learning history past the Civil War, noticeably became more enthused when describing his college courses, using language such as “got to,” indicating a sense of excitement rather than learning by force or requirement: I got to learn history. I got to cover parts of history I’d never covered before. Some classes I took, you know…general studies and Western Civ…but then I got to take The Holocaust from a Jewish professor, and I got to take a Civil War course, from a…a published author. Got to learn…Asian history, Latin American history. It expanded. That’s just my undergrad. My…graduate work…the master’s project was to develop a class, and the class was Civil War to Civil Rights: The History of African Americans. And so, I got to…I did a reading class on that. I took a graduate class called The Native Americans. I took a class on the South, in which…I had the same professor for all my graduate classes, but one…she brought in the perceptions of the South. We talked about slavery, talked about how all that- It was the way history should be taught. I mean, I got to see, learn so much more about race. Nate also noted that when he learned history in his college courses, the material often presented varied non-white perspectives of the historical event: “we read Native essays about Native Americans through their eyes. . .We didn’t get past World War II because we focused on the Holocaust. But he did present other views, immigrants’ views, and African Americans’ views. . .” Similarly, Steve described the impact that learning about varying perspectives had on his development of love and understanding of history: there was an African American professor who was very…open and wanted us to discuss race relations, not only during that time but also now and…We specifically read a book about the African American women’s experience in Petersburg, Virginia, during the Civil War, that I just thought was, was fascinating. And I just was like - I’ve never learned perspective like this before. And I’m like, I want to know more. So, I absolutely loved that class. Due to the standard requirements of social studies education majors to take a variety of coursework spanning time and location, all nine participants reported taking coursework that required them to learn about non-white history. The commonly studied groupings are Asian history courses, African history courses, and Latine history courses. While TEPs often require equal or more coursework in American history, it is common for American universities to diversify these course offerings to include options like *African American History*, *Native American History*, or *Latine in the United States*. **Graduate School/Teacher Education.** Several participants focused explicitly on their graduate or teacher education programs when recalling their exposure to racial diversity. While methods courses often train pre-service teachers on incorporating diversity, social studies courses increasingly focus on incorporating racial diversity and analyzing one’s racial lens. For example, the most recent graduate and newest teacher Wyatt recalls: Obviously, you know, like, I was talking about that class that I took in the doctoral program that I went through…she had us, you know, unpack our little white privilege backpack, she had us do these surveys - survey someone that was from a group outside of our own, whether that be a Person of Color, or you know, opposite sex, whatever that might be. In his undergraduate program, Kenny was a history major, focusing on Catholic Church history, which is very Euro-centric. When he enrolled in graduate school for teacher education, he recalled his adviser telling him to diversify his coursework: When I got to grad school, my advisor for education was like, ‘Hey, you have never learned about anything besides European history; you should probably change that if you want to get a job,’ and I was like, okay. So then…I had to take a semester, a full semester and a half of history courses. So that ended up being six or seven history courses I had to take….and all of it was non-western….I was also in an urban ed program, as well. And so, I got some pretty explicit instruction, both in pedagogy as well as in just like general knowledge about antiracism and the movement. **Outliers.** However, Kenny also recalled a professor in his undergraduate program: He would like to talk about how great the Confederacy was….like he was…old. He was like, 85…at the end of his career. And…you could tell he was just like, not 100% there anymore, but…he would literally say stuff like, General Lee was a great general and…talk about the Confederacy and talk and talk about the Confederacy in this class about classics, so he definitely had some racial bias there. While this experience is an outlier in my data set regarding the blatancy of the educator’s candor and interests, it points to the potential implications a teacher’s racial perceptions may have on their students, particularly students who are more cognitively impressionable than college students. Thomas, Wyatt, Amina, and Ellen all said they could not recall having an educator who reflected antiracist ideals in their educations. **Professional Development Experience** Within the United States, many school districts require teachers to complete a certain number of professional development hours (PD) to maintain their certification. Schools and districts often provide PD, including seminars, training, workshops, or enrichment activity. Additionally, teachers may attend conferences or participate in continuing education coursework that pertains to their content area or instructional level. Many organizations and companies have developed PD courses focusing on content and practice and addressing more significant education concepts, such as inclusion, discipline, or differentiation. Articles and studies have reported responses from teachers on their experiences of professional development opportunities (Pillow, 2021). Historically, PDs have gotten a bad reputation from teachers and are often viewed as ineffective or a waste of time (Gulamhussein, 2013; Strauss, 2014). However, with the professional development industry growing, teachers are quick to give positive feedback when they find the experience highly effective and valuable (Fullan, 2015). Seven of the nine participants distinctly remember professional development on racial consciousness, racism, antiracism, or diversity at the school or district level. Of those seven, two struggled to describe the experience and therefore found it ineffective, while five were able to describe the training vividly because it was effective. Effective Professional Development While five of the participants experienced professional development that was effective enough for them to discuss it in detail without preparing their answers ahead of time, there are two of those participants whose experiences were highly significant. As described previously, Charles had sounded aloof and hurried throughout the interviews. As a result, I struggled to make a personal connection with him. However, there were two points throughout the three interviews that I could sense his excitement. In both instances was his discussion of being awarded a fellowship for educators to deepen their content and practices to develop equitable learning for all students. Charles described it as “culturally responsive teaching in the classroom. So pretty much those principles and trying to make sure your students feel that they can talk about race in the classroom with you and stuff like that.” For an educator to choose to attend a professional development opportunity or commit to one that takes place over a period of time, such as Charles’ fellowship, one certainly indicates their interest and passion for the subject – in this case, culturally responsive and equitable teaching practices. It is, of course, the intention that compelling PD experiences will be translated to the educator’s classroom, and that result for Charles and others will be further discussed in Chapter 6. Similarly, Kenny described his elective experiences and commitments regarding diversity and equity in his professional development. Where he lives on the East Coast, teachers must participate in yearly professional development and growth, including college course work or established curriculum enrichment through the school’s database. Kenny spent time as a coordinator for his school’s diversity committee, which also existed at two other schools where he worked. He said he wrote a curriculum for teachers about race and developed learning opportunities for his colleagues. “We came up with PD [professional development], or we at least discussed PD, and the administrator decided what we did about issues of race and diversity.” At Kenny’s current school, the committee is student-led, which he describes as much more ‘powerful’ than his previous experiences. “They teach teachers about race and how students feel about race. …Teachers also engage with…a reading series. …they read a series of books, and then they talk with students who have also read the same books about issues of race.” While the other three educators reported their respective training experiences on racial consciousness or antiracism as effective, they were also required or forced, unlike Kenny and Charles, who volunteered for their development sessions. It is not uncommon for those required/forced to attend PD to already have a negative approach to it, despite its potential value and effectiveness. Wyatt, having only been teaching for two years at the time of this interview, vocalized the common frustration many teachers express amongst each other (Pillow, 2021; Strauss, 2014) regarding mandatory professional development: Racism awareness - yes. So, a lot of that has been present in my education, as well as professional development and everything else, not to the point where it’s been antiracism training, but definitely at that level. We have had professional development on that…Obviously, it’s always good to kind of have a refresh. But with my district, a lot of it is, you know, they’ll give you these wonderful resources in these trainings. But they don’t really tell you or show you what to do with that knowledge with these resources. It’s just like, ‘here we go; we got this great resource.’ Okay….then, you know, take it a step further: how do we really implement this? How do we really use these? They don’t really do that, and I feel like that’s where they fall short at my district. There are instances, however, of required professional development sessions that are well-received by educators (Ferlazzo, 2022; Schwartz, 2019). Steve vividly remembered one session he attended that he found particularly helpful: We had a guy, an antiracism…speaker through Zoom, talk to us about antiracism strategies. [He] really talked about, like, ‘Don’t say that you’re ‘colourblind to race,’ don’t say that you’re ‘not racist.’ Just be honest with yourself, and be honest that you do have biases, and you might not eradicate them, but you are willing to see them for what they are, and then see how that influences your teaching, but also realize that the cultural differences in your students are very important. Interestingly, it was when I asked him if he feels being white impacts what he teaches and which resources he uses that Steve made an astute observation about one of his PD sessions: Most of the professional development that I do…specifically in social studies…it’s mostly white males talking to other white males. And if they’re not white males, they’re white females. I have very limited experience with African American women, like social studies teachers. …I’ve had professors who were from all kinds of different ethnic groups, but I think that most of the curriculum that is out there for me to sample from was built by white males or white females. But I have noticed - and maybe it’s just because I’m more aware and I want to think about it - more perspectives on it was on US history. We just teach about 13 colonies. And here’s the basic story. But let’s dig into…a free African American in Rhode Island…those are more stories that I’m seeing available because especially white people are saying, hey, there’s more than just this one perspective. Let’s make things complicated. Let’s make things more realistic than…the myths and things that we’ve talked about. Another well-known and highly effective professional development session is organized by a group that uses lessons of history to challenge teachers and their students to stand up to bigotry and hate (Facinghistory.org, n.d.). Facing History & Ourselves is an organization that holds professional development seminars and training from California to Massachusetts and the United Kingdom. To access a broader range, many of their seminars are online. Nate attended one of their seminars that focused on race. He described it as “antiracist” in nature. He noted this professional development opportunity because his district “focuses on poverty, but not race.” He found the experience impactful and described it as approaching an “antiracist” mindset. **Ineffective Professional Development** Professional development has gained a reputation amongst educators because of time wasted on ineffective or inapplicable information (Gulamhussein, 2013). Nolan and Amina both remembered having PDs regarding race, but neither found the session effective. Nolan said, “a lot of it was like, *Hey, what are your biases that you have?* and recognizing it, I found it to be, like… it seemed very simplistic to me.” Amina also struggled to think of the session she was required to attend: “We had one…about racism in the classroom…But I truly just don’t remember.” Amina did recall another professional development experience that she found to be ineffective as well: I thought it was a little weird that they had us read as a staff just because our schools aren’t famous for the issues that they’re going through, but we were also the largest school in the district. So I’m pretty sure that’s why they had us be the guinea pigs. But we were reading *Why Do All the Black Kids Sit Together in The Cafeteria?* …it’s a forced book club. I don’t think many people would be reading, but you are supposed to bring something to share at every meeting. And for some of our staff meetings, they literally were like, *You’re just meeting with your circle, and you’re just gonna go through your book*…like [literature] circles…and we had time…Yeah, I don’t think everyone actually read the book…I read most of my book – maybe…There were other great things in this book, but I don’t remember all of them. That was only two years ago. That’s unfortunate. **Absence of Professional Development** Two participants reported no memory of receiving professional development, specifically regarding race, antiracism, or racism awareness. When I asked Ellen if she had ever received such training in a professional setting, her reply was “Nope,” and she didn’t expand any further. When I asked Thomas if he had ever had professional development or training on racism awareness or something similar, his response was, “No. If I did, I don’t remember it. Typical…” While this data is not indicative of teachers’ experiences nationwide, it is alarming that two of the nine educator participants (22%) had no memory of receiving impactful training on handling race issues within their classroom – especially since one of them has been teaching for between eight to eleven years. While Ellen’s school is 100% white and her community is also racially homogenous, it is concerning that the teachers receive no enrichment in instructing their students about diversity to prepare them to enter into and participate in American society. **Personal Experiences with Race** The data revealed another type of experience social studies teachers had when learning about race and the development of their racial lenses aside from their formal education and professional development experiences. Participants reported having a personal interest when learning about race throughout their lives. These individual experiences have often occurred during their adolescence, making a long-term impact on their racial lens, their interactions with their students or in their social lives, and their pursuit of knowledge about race through reading and media. **As a Child** To further understand the development of the racial lens, it is crucial to examine the impact racial groups had on people growing up in the United States. I have divided the childhood exposures of varying racial groups into two sections: high exposure amounts and low exposure amounts. These subgroups would dissect if the participant reported memories of significant and impactful interactions with two or more groups outside of their race during adolescence. I further divided the exposures into the level of impact – meaning that the participant reported their experiences (or lack thereof) to have positive or adverse effects on their understanding of race (Table 5). In the next chapter, I will explore the influence of these exposures on the participants’ racial lenses/consciousnesses. However, first, I will report my findings on how the participants personally interacted with people outside of their race as they developed. **Table 5** *Participants’ Personal Experiences With Racial Diversity in Their Adolescence* | | High Exposure | Low Exposure | |--------------------------------|---------------|--------------| | **Positive Impact** | Nate; Nolan | Kenny; Steve | | **Negative or Neutral Impact** | Amina; Wyatt | Ellen; Thomas| *Note.* The only participant not included in the table was Charles, who only shared his positive learning experiences from secondary social studies regarding race. While he did not expand on his levels of exposure to People of Color during his childhood, he is the only white participant who reported current personal relationships with People of Color, including his current romantic relationship and their child. **High Exposure.** *Negative Impact.* Two participants reported high exposure to multiple racial groups as they grew. However, they both experienced adverse effects. I don’t remember a single thing from the government [class] because I didn’t actually like her teaching style. I didn’t like the way she talked. I did not. I just didn’t like how she talked. I didn’t like how she taught; I didn’t like her class. I didn’t like the kids in that class, even though we all saw each other in other classrooms. …She was Black. Growing up, my parents were low-key racist, okay, like I know that now. But I did not realize that like, it’s kind of just in their language, it’s in their jokes that they make that like, they’re very colorist, and I feel like that’s kind of just South Asian culture in general. And I…like that, I know that it’s just a remnant of colonialism, but it’s just…they prefer being lighter. While that portion of the conversation seemed to flow easily from Amina, she would later discuss how she spent the last few years examining her position on race and how she has been engaging with her parents regarding their issues. I will further discuss that in the next chapter. Wyatt also discussed the negative impacts of his high exposure to multiple racial groups. While in middle school, he attended a predominantly Black and Latine school. I am compelled to share our entire exchange so the reader can understand my role as the researcher with the sensitive information he shared with me. Researcher: Can you describe any experiences with discrimination you’ve had because of your race? Wyatt: Yes. So that’s actually why ….sixth grade…I’ve kind of, you know, kind of repressed that. And I just kind of revisited that a little bit more in-depth and specifics with my therapist a couple of weeks ago. Um…[pause] Researcher: You don’t have to broach that if you’re not comfortable. Wyatt: I won’t, I won’t…break it down like that, you know, I’m not gonna turn you into my therapist for this. But it was something…I was perceiving myself to be the victim of racism from Black and Brown kids. And, you know, they would target me for being the small white kid. And I perceived that as ‘well they’re picking on me because of my race.’ So that in turn, you know, I kind of thought I’d fight fire with fire. I’d heard that before. So that I kind of became racist myself. Well, not kind of- I was, I was racist in middle school. And yeah…That’s…I’ve gotten past that- I’m working past it with my therapist. But um, that was one time whenever I really, really thought that I was kind of getting targeted for being white at a predominantly Black and Latino school. Researcher: You attended a predominantly Black and Latino school? Wyatt: Yeah, that was in middle school. Researcher: Gotcha. Um, were there any other white students with you? Wyatt: There were, there were…(pause) Researcher: Okay, thank you for sharing that. Let me move on to the next one. At that point in the interview, I sensed that because of Wyatt’s slowed and hesitant speech pattern, he had shared what he wanted regarding that aspect of his life, and I wanted to respect his boundaries, so I didn’t press further or revisit that particular topic. However, I found it highly significant that he was willing to be so open and candid with me - a stranger recording the conversation for a study that was to be published. Wyatt is likely not the only person within his demographic to have issues with racism. But he is seeking therapy and working through those issues while simultaneously teaching at a school with a highly diverse population.\(^{15}\) This is unusual, in my opinion, and offers the field important insight into how the racial lens of white social studies teachers with self-acknowledged racism issues has not only been developed but also relates to his racial consciousness and progression towards an antiracist mentality. I will explore this in the next chapter on participants’ racial lens and consciousness. \(^{15}\) Wyatt estimated that the student population at the Southern, suburban, Title 1 school where he works is 37% Latinx, 28% Black, 18% white, 14% Asian, and 1% Indigenous./Pacific Islander. These are his rough estimations. Conversely, Nate grew up in a largely homogenous community during the 1970s and 80s, but his exposure to People of Color was intentional and consistent. Moreover, these experiences were distinct enough for him to remember. We had some Native Americans in my class. My dad and my brother were best buddies with one [non-white] family. I mean, that was an extension of our race [diversity]. We did have one Hispanic custodian, and her two daughters went to school with us. And she filled in for Spanish…which my Spanish [class] was the superintendent coming in, turning on the TV, and letting [the university] teach us rather than him teaching because he was a shop teacher. He also discussed the Black family his mother had grown up with: “One of my mom’s best friends is ‘Mama Jean.’\textsuperscript{16} She loves me like a son. And so, I mean, I grew up loving. You know, the color skin doesn’t matter.” Therefore, while his community was predominantly white, his parents made a concerted effort to ensure Nate was exposed to and in relationships with People of Color. **Low Exposure.** On the other end of the spectrum, the other half of the participants had minimal exposure to People of Color during their childhoods. While none of them were raised in urban environments that usually beget diverse populations, they were not necessarily in isolated regions. Again, the impact of their exposure had varied outcomes, depending on the situation and the person. Thomas, Ellen, Steve, and Kenny all were raised around mostly (if not wholly) white people; their neighbors, classmates, restaurant workers, etc., were generally all white. **Negative/Neutral Impact.** For Thomas, the impact of living in a primarily white area was fairly neutral: he had neither positive nor negative memories of diverse groups. For the most part, he likely was not aware of how racially homogenous his area was until he attended \textsuperscript{16}Nate said her full name, but I changed it to an unrelated name for confidentiality, keeping the title ‘Mama’ to show his filial affection towards her. university. He described how this area was so void of diversity that he never witnessed racism because there was no one to direct it towards: My most self-aware part is that, like growing up in the Midwest, there’s not a lot of diversity. …So, a lot of…racial animosity has never been given an opportunity to present itself. So, if there were, say, growing up, someone that I knew that was racist, it would very rarely be observed, simply because there’s not opportunity to demonstrate that. Similarly, Ellen was born and raised in a community where she was always around white people. She still resides in that town and spoke earlier about the lack of exposure to diversity in school. However, she knows she is missing out on the experience and benefits of being around various racial groups. I would say that just living where I live, I haven’t had a lot of experience with people of other races. …We have a few Native Americans around, but there’s really not. I mean, I don’t think there’s any African American people that live in our town. …a lot of people forget that this is a nation of immigrants. And I think it’s wonderful to have a diverse nation. I honestly wish that my area was more diverse because I think people would be more understanding. Well, maybe not, because I don’t know if people in areas that are more diverse are. Like Thomas, Ellen’s experience was neutral as opposed to negative. However, the benefits of being immersed in a multicultural environment and surrounded by various racial groups have shown to be helpful to all people (Chavez & Guido-DiBrito, 2011; Leung et al., 2008). Therefore, Thomas and Ellen may be unaware of how their homogenous upbringing may have negatively affected their perspectives. The only comparison one may have to make such a judgment is to look at people who were similarly raised in a racially homogenous area but had highly positive benefits from those experiences, such as Steve and Kenny. **Positive Impact.** Steve and Kenny were also raised in racially homogenous areas with little-to-no exposure to People of Color. Kenny described, “my teachers were 100% white through college. …the first time I had a Teacher of Color was in college. My town was 95% white, and then 4%, Asian, and 1% everything else, and that’s being generous with ‘everything else.’” However, Kenny identified his social studies curriculum as whitewashed, and Kenny has been highly involved in diversity committees at every school he has worked. He now acknowledges how far removed he was from non-white people: “I remember being grossly unaware of race…” In a sense, Kenny’s lack of exposure to non-white people throughout his youth inspired him to be highly involved and active with diversity and racial consciousness – so much so that he has spent time writing curriculum and teaching adults how to be more racially sensitive and inclusive. Steve also had minimal exposure to non-white people throughout his childhood: Very, very limited. Again, the community that I grew up in, I can only think of – in my seven years in middle and high school – three African American students. And so, it was kind of a big deal. Like…I never felt like there was any like, racism in the groups that I went with. It’d be like, oh, I can’t believe that one kid’s here. I mean, I don’t think there was any other ethnic group besides the African American. However, this lack of exposure throughout his childhood may have caused him to realize that he was limited when trying to connect with his non-white students as an adult. I’m interested because…my youth was spent around all white people; I’ve kind of said, okay, I know what they’re like. Whereas, especially my African American students or Asian American students, I’m very interested in what makes up who they are. And that doesn’t have to do about race, but like, I can see similarities between my youth and white kids. But I can see that there’s a difference [with my non-white students]. And so…I just, I want to make sure that I can build that relationship with them. And so…I want to connect with them in whatever way that I can. To understand his students better, he would need to search for diversity exposure. This would need to spark an interest in learning about racial consciousness and trying to understand complex current events from a non-white perspective. For Steve and Kenny, their lack of exposure made them acutely aware of how much richness and varied perspectives they had been missing and drove them to search for increased racial awareness in their personal lives. Present-Day Having analyzed the data for how participants experienced racial diversity in their youth, it was then necessary to look at the data for their exposures to and interactions with diversity in their adult lives. I specifically asked about their daily interactions and personal relationships with people outside their school environment. High Amount. Personal Relationships. Three of the nine participants reported having close relationships with people outside of their race. For example, Wyatt, the teacher who previously discussed his struggle in overcoming personal racism, described the variety of POC he has in his life: My two neighbors to the right are Black. I have Brazilians to the left of me… it’s a very diverse neighborhood. And that’s where I, you know, I kind of say yes and no to the colorblind question. And really, whenever I do catch myself, it’s more with socioeconomic status. Because this is a pretty good neighborhood, it’s a very safe neighborhood. I really like it. Very nice houses. And so, [my neighbors] next door to me… they’re real nice. We kind of share the same beliefs, kind of ideologies there. But yeah, it’s a very diverse neighborhood. So, I interact with them. Outside of school. At church, I do interact with a very diverse blend of people at church. Friends: Yeah, I would say I do. Not very many Black friends, not because - you know - the racism or anything, but just because they were more Filipino. …I made friends at church. So, there are more Filipino, Vietnamese, a few Nigerians. But yeah, that’s where most of my friends were made [church]. Similarly, Kenny’s social circle has a wide variety of people: I’ve worked in restaurants. I’ve worked with primarily Brazilian people. So, from the age of 14, all the way through, when I stopped working…So from the age of like, 15…all the way through 22, I worked predominantly with Brazilian people. Because that’s who makes up most of the restaurant workers [here], and that’s what I did in high school in early college. So, I had a lot of exposure through work. I lived with Richard.\(^{17}\) He was Black…Nigerian. I lived with a Man of Color, and then my current best friend…is a Man of Color as well. And I hang out with him and his friend group, and they’re very racially diverse. So yeah, I have a lot of exposure, both personal and professional. \(^{17}\) This is a pseudonym. Charles is the only white participant who reported familial relationships with non-white people: “My girlfriend is a non-white person. I have a child who’s a non-white person. So daily [exposure]....” However, he did describe an establishment he frequents that is racially homogenous: I go to a bar down the street all the time to get food; I’ve never seen a Person of Color in that bar. And I know multiple friends that I hang out with who are People of Color feel uncomfortable going there because they feel People of Color do not go there. And I keep hoping I’m going to go in there one day, and maybe I’ll be proved wrong. So yeah…like I said, it’s an older, white demographic. **Low Amount.** Though three participants reported having considerable amounts of regular interactions with people outside of their race (not including their students), six reported the opposite. For example, Thomas, Steve, Nolan, and Nate all reported seeing non-white people frequently in their community; however, they do not necessarily interact with said people other than the exchanges at stores or restaurants. They also reported not having any current personal relationships with non-white people, though they had People of Color in their lives in the past. Since Amina was the only Person of Color in the study and lives in a highly diverse Southern metropolis, I was interested in her experiences with people outside her race. She described her current relationships/exposures outside of work, “I used to run a youth group; those really do count as students, if I was going to be honest. And they were also pretty, pretty, similar as far as race goes. Um, let’s see anyone else? Nah, man.” I was also interested in how she was treated by those people outside her race when they interacted with her as a Person of Color: It’s in the stares that you get, especially at the grocery store, especially because we were one of the very few - when we first moved there - truly one of the very few People of Color that lived in that, like, neighborhood, like, we were the only ones in my neighborhood in particular. …I never used to be afraid of encountering a white person. I really wasn’t. Until my cousin…they were playing with water guns at the park, and a local white lady called the cops on them. And until that happened, I’ve never been afraid of any white person just because that’s where I grew up. That’s what I’m familiar with. Like, honestly, if I could change schools [place of employment], I would probably go to a white suburb just because I’m so familiar with that. The full results from this chapter can be seen succinctly in Table 6. In the next chapter, I will further explain these instances about findings for racial lens and consciousness. **Personal Interest** Whether it was the realization of their lack of learning about various racial groups, a peaked interest from college coursework or professional development, or their interactions with friends, many participants reported a personal interest in expanding their understanding of people outside their race. Six of the nine participants reported having read books, and articles, listened to podcasts, or watched documentaries that would allow them more depth of understanding regarding diversity and inclusion (see Tables 6 and 7). Each of the six participants reported two types of sources they have sought out to expand their interest in antiracism and racial consciousness. Specifically, two participants cited Kendi’s (2016) *Stamped from the Beginning*. Amina explicitly described watching the documentary *13th*, “I remember watching the documentary *13th* on Netflix, and my eyes were wide open after that.” While she said only this in her interview, her journal expanded further: “This year, starting in January, I made more of an active effort to educate myself on antiracism. I took a hard look at my own biases- I’m very aware of them.” ### Table 6 **Participant Summary of Experience in Learning About Race** | Name | 6-8 Grade Teachers’ Race | 9-12 Grade Teachers’ Race | Undergraduate History Professors’ Race | Graduate/TEP/NBCT* | Professional Learning About Race | Personal Learning About Race | |--------|--------------------------|---------------------------|----------------------------------------|--------------------|----------------------------------|-------------------------------| | Charles| All | 3 white | U.S.: 2 white | MAT | 2-yr Fellowship: Diversity in the Classroom 4-5 PD sessions | Personal relationships Books Podcasts | | Ellen | All | All | All | MA in Progress | None Recalled | None specified | | Kenny | All | All | All | MA/NBCT | Schoolwide diversity committees | Personal friendships Books Podcasts | | Nate | All | All | U.S.: All white (1 Jewish) World: 2 white (4 Jewish) | MA | Facing History and Ourselves | None specified | | Steve | All | All | U.S.: 4 white; 2 Black World: 5 white; 1 Asian | MA | Zoom speaker – Antiracism | Books Podcasts | | Thomas | All | All | All | MA | None recalled | Articles Podcasts | | Amina | 2 white | 3 white | U.S.: All white World: 1 Asian, 1 Middle Eastern, the rest white | BA | One session vaguely recalled | Books Film | | Nolan | All | 4 white | U.S.: All white World: All white | MA | One session vaguely recalled | None specified | | Wyatt | All | All | U.S.: 3 white 1 Latine World: All white | Ed.D. | | Personal friendships Articles Podcasts | *Note.* See Appendix R for a description of the pathways to teacher certification in the United States. Table 7 Participants’ Resource Types for Personal Learning | | Books | Articles | Podcasts | Film or Media | |----------------|--------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------| | Charles | Yes, but titles unspecified | | Yes, but titles unspecified | | | Kenny | • *Stamped From the Beginning* Kendi (2016) | • *The Hate you Give* Thomas (2017) | • *Throughline* (NPR) | • *Louder Than a Riot* | | Amina | • *Stamped From the Beginning* Kendi (2016) | • *Why are all the Black Kids Sitting Together in the Cafeteria?* Tatum (2017) | | Film: 13th | | Wyatt | Yes, but titles unspecified | Yes, but titles unspecified | Yes, but titles unspecified | | | Steve Thomas | Yes, but titles unspecified | Yes, but titles unspecified | Nice White Parents | | | Ellen Nate Nolan | No reported supplementary material | | Yes, but titles unspecified | | Summary of Findings 1 Ultimately, the nine participants in this study had varied experiences learning about race in their educational, professional, and personal lives. However, all nine have the common denominator of being educated by primarily white teachers, and most have had various experiences in professional development. In addition, some of them have gone further to explore the topics of racism and inclusion on their own; books and podcasts were reported as the most widely used resources. In the next chapter, I will explore the second set of findings from the data, which analyzes the participant’s racial lens and racial consciousness and determine the correlation between that and their learning experiences. CHAPTER 5 FINDINGS 2 – RACIAL OPTICS This chapter reports the findings of 27 phenomenological interviews with nine different participants. Additionally, I collected data from these participants in curriculum samples and journals. I also distributed a supplementary survey to additional participants nationwide between November 2021 and March 2022. The survey results intended to give further insight into the experiences of secondary social studies teachers in learning and teaching about race. All this data was collected and analyzed to address the research questions guiding this study: 1. How have current secondary U.S. history teachers experienced learning about race? 2. How do current high school U.S. history teachers interpret their racial lenses and consciousnesses? 3. How have these U.S. history teachers included or omitted their views of race within their curriculum? 4. How have these teachers been guided on decentralizing the white narrative from American history or including diversity in their curriculum, if at all? In this study, the phenomenological interviews were the main focal point of the data collection. The other data sets served as supplemental information to corroborate and compare with the findings of the discussions. The last chapter revealed how secondary social studies teachers learned about race. I found that nearly all the participants experienced white social studies (Chandler & Branscombe, 2015) in their adolescence. Their learning about racial diversity expanded through their college education, into their jobs through professional development, and to some extent, their personal lives and interest. This chapter will address research questions two and three - *how secondary social studies teachers have interpreted their racial lenses and consciousnesses* and *how that has been included or omitted in their curriculum.* **Racial Optics** Chapter 2 examined racial identity, lens, consciousness, subconsciousness, and unconsciousness.\(^{18}\) When combining all of the following modes: a) how people see their race, b) view the world based on their race, and c) understand and acknowledge the asymmetrical power relationships between races, I establish the overarching term that best encompasses them is *racial optics*. I first analyzed the participants’ data from each realm to determine how social studies teachers’ racial optics impact their curricular choices. **Racial Identity** All eight white participants identified themselves as white, and the Participant of Color identified herself as “Southeast Asian” or “South Asian.” When discussing a former social studies teacher, she further specified, “She was the same race as I. She’s also South Asian. She was Pakistani just like I was.” However, in Amina’s interview, she talked about her thought process concerning her identity: Because I’m a Pakistani, I’m Muslim, I think. Yeah, I think they tie in really closely… and so, they like kind of intertwine…I’ve always worn a scarf. Like, I’ve always identified with that culture and that religion, but I grew up in white suburbia. So, I was just like, if it wasn’t for the color of my skin or my religion like I was just like everyone else. Ultimately, Amina identified herself as Southeast Asian or South Asian, although she felt she could easily relate to and understand white people because she was raised amongst them. \(^{18}\) I refer to Table 1 for the definitions, examples, and differentiation between these terms. The participants’ understanding of their racial lens varies from person to person. Using their interviews and journals, I determined if and how they apply their identity to their racial lens and if they are even aware. To do this and answer research question two, *how do current secondary U.S. history teachers interpret their racial lenses and consciousnesses?* I evaluated the data through a racial lens in three realms: how the participants view themselves, others from within their race, and how they view people outside of their race. **Participants’ Views of Themselves.** *Confident.* Several participants clearly articulated how their race influences their perception of the world around them and could communicate how they view themselves regarding their race. They conveyed this confidence with phrasing such as *definitely, I know,* and *I am.* For example, Kenny expressed high confidence in how he perceives himself: “I’ve definitely been privileged to be born a white straight man, and I’ve definitely have experienced that privilege multiple times. It’s not something that you see every day, but it’s definitely something that I know exists....” Nate also speaks confidently about his knowledge of his race and how it influences what he sees around him: “I’m aware of the whiteness that I am. We were talking, like I said, we started social stratification last week, and I said, I’m a white male. I have never been discriminated against.” While Ellen has minimum exposure to People of Color, she demonstrated confidence in how she perceives herself as a white female: I’m pretty comfortable with who I am, and I know who I am, and I know I’m not hateful, but I do know that I need to be aware of myself and just - my lack of experience could sometimes be an obstacle. And just I don’t have the perspective...of somebody who’s lived it when I teach it, so I need to be mindful of making sure that I’m presenting in a way that’s just...show open-mindedness and kind of share that with my students so that they do the same thing. She demonstrated in her statement that her whiteness was something she had spent some time thinking about, which was true of the other participants who appeared to describe themselves confidently. For example, Steve explained how he seemingly is still considering how he views his whiteness: It’s taking me quite a while to figure out like…*what is my whiteness? And what is maybe white privilege*, but just *where’s my station in society? And…why am I there?* Because I’ve always felt like I’ve worked for the things that I’ve achieved. But I’m also aware that there are certain…challenges I didn’t have to face that other people would because they weren’t a white male. Similarly, Thomas expressed himself succinctly and confidently, as though he had been thinking about this answer before the interview: So, there’s a lot more understanding of myself of just like, oh, I was growing up in a very, like conservative, white, you know, lack of diversity kind of situation. And so, it’s more awareness of like, there are a lot of things that I would have maybe not questioned, just been okay, and then moved on that now. Like, it’s time to go back and say, *okay, I gotta question what this thought is, this idea, am I a product of any sort of, like, narrative that was trying to have been pushed upon me, my parents or their grandparents throughout… racial discourse, right.* And then I’m also very aware like, economically, especially. So, growing up in a middle-class home, able to go to college. I had debt, but I mean, I was able to pay that off. I’m living a middle-class lifestyle now. So just kind of like that sense of continuity between, you know, my grandparents, my parents, and myself… Yeah, I would say, now I’m very aware of what a lot of people label *privilege* that was extended to my heritage, like land ownership, and that kind of stuff that would have been denied to Black people, specifically….but yeah…I would say, like, I’m aware of some of that kind of how my just being born into this situation has impacted the success of myself. Probably as I grew older, moving away from a more individualistic viewpoint of like, *you earn what you get*, and understanding that there’s a lot of inherited wealth, and then I am on the winning side of that. **Less Than Confident.** While clear on their racial identity, some participants appeared less confident when discussing how they view themselves racially. For example, when I asked Wyatt how he understands his whiteness, his immediate response was, “I know that I have kind of gotten away with some things… So, I do acknowledge that….in some instances, it can provide me with an advantage.” However, he stopped short of exuding the confidence in how his whiteness impacts him that Steve, Ellen, and Kenny demonstrated. The participant who seemingly struggled the most with their racial lens was Amina. Her struggle could be attributed to her upbringing in a white community, her largely South Asian education, and perhaps her youth or education level. However, Amina did describe how she grew up thinking of her skin color: I remember my own family being like, cuz I’m darker than most of my family, [they were] like, ‘Oh, don’t go out in the sun; make sure we’re wearing sunscreen.’ Whatever, and [I’m] just kind of like, *just let me run*. And honestly, I stopped going out in the sun because of it. Amina described her mentality as she grew and became more ingrained with varying cultures and skin colors: “I also looked at race differently. I didn’t think of myself as very different from anyone else. I felt like if it wasn’t for the color of my skin and the scarf on my head, I’m just like everyone else.” Amina’s experience demonstrates the paradoxical self-image many People of Color experience – particularly when it comes to how much their race is seen as being central to their identity (Horowitz et al., 2019\(^{19}\)). While often people have trouble identifying their racial lens regarding themselves, they can speak to their perceptions of their race in general. For Amina, this is true as well. **Participants’ Views of Their Racial Demographics.** When asking for any generalization, one must always be prepared to frame the answer they receive in the specific opinions and views of the person they are asking. While I asked highly subjective broad questions about how the participants viewed people within their race, their answers can offer insight into understanding their racial lens and how they perceive their race within the world. I --- \(^{19}\) A 2019 survey of U.S. adults conducted January 22 – February 5, 2019, revealed that 52% of Black Americans see their race as extremely important and central to their identity, as opposed to 31% of Hispanic Americans and 27% of Asian Americans. In this same poll, 5% of white Americans reported their race was central to their identity. was curious if the participants strongly associated with their race because of the racial polarization and strife within the United States in the last ten years. **Distinction From.** Three of the participants very clearly separated themselves from other white people when I asked them about their understanding of white people within society in a general sense. Kenny described one aspect with which he is not like other white people: I think that we all have implicit bias somewhere. I mean, that’s just a given fact. And I think that a lot of white people especially like, I think- that it doesn’t exist, and that’s problematic. That’s very problematic. I mean… I would argue that’s almost worse than someone being explicitly racist… not being able to… reflect on your own racial attitudes. Nate and Ellen also distinguished themselves from others within their race. In his journal, Nate described himself and his view of white people: “I think my race has been oppressive. I am not colorblind because there is a beautiful diversity, and to ignore it would be harmful. I am antiracist. I treat people as people, loving them as anyone else.” Ellen also described in her journal how she sees white people and places herself amongst that group, “I think in history the white race as a whole has been oppressive, but I myself have not.” **White Normalization.** Three other participants specifically responded about how they view white people in society; they described how whiteness had been normalized in the United States. Steve explained how he believes society sees him and other white people – that white normalization is perpetuated: I think that, especially in college, I just kind of realize that, like, just white males, in general, were kind of… I don’t want to say it like this: like the standard everybody else should follow. And I just felt like that was strange to me that like that my life or the way that I’m, I’m living my life should be, what media and the news are all kind of focused on. ….. I don’t know how well I’ve done to kind of adapt or do things because of my, my place in society as a white male, but just be aware of, of the benefits of, of I’m able to walk in certain places or just act in a certain way. And nobody judges me. I feel like most white people will look at ethnic groups as kind of *live and let live*…. like we don’t want to know about your uniqueness because it doesn’t make you any better or worse than anybody else. But by saying that, it does. Nolan noted the same type of mentality – that white normalization is a societal occurrence – if even only perpetuated by white people: They’ve been kind of the default, privileged groups in American history. You look in media; it’s mostly white people. So even though the demographics of the country are changing, that’s still kind of very much the prototypical American, and I guess…people get mad about it, or they say like, ‘white privilege.’ It’s not white privilege. It’s more, ‘Wow, you’ve been assholes to everybody else. Like you would just expect to be treated fairly.’ So, it’s almost like, *if this is white privilege, oh, man, our baseline is really low on being just a decent human being.* Being white in America made me not notice race for a long time. It just never came up. I never really thought about it because I never experienced anything that would make me think about it. It’s not like I didn’t know people in other races, but *okay, their skin’s different.* I remember, in 2008, when Obama became President, we’re all in college, and we were a bunch of white people. And we’re like, *you’re making fun of the fact that like, he’s Black! …Are we like, the first generation that really doesn’t care if he’s Black and actually cares about his policies?* Or it’s like, *wow, there’s more here than I realize* when that’s like every newspaper. Thomas similarly described his mentality while at the same time drawing generalizations about other Midwesterners: But on the whole, you know, most [Midwesterners], they have no animosity towards Black Americans, and they grew up in the racial blindness discourse and so trying to be good neighbors, they will just ‘okay, there’s no…difference between you and me,’ they’re gonna just treat them like neighbors. Thomas referenced his perception that other Midwesterners do not see a difference between themselves and Black Americans. However, because he wrongly assumed all Midwesterners are white and “people outside your race” means “Black Americans,” he revealed part of his racial lens, not only by these generalizations but also by his mindset that the white people in his area are friendly and open to People of Color. His comments also reflect that his racial lens includes the default notion that white is standard and assumed. **Dual Mentality.** Amina described her upbringing in-depth and unprompted, indicating to me that it is an integral part of her identity. “If it wasn’t for the color of my skin or my religion…I was just like everyone else…I never really felt singled out for my race…and I know I’m lucky for that. …Maybe it’s the bubble my parents raised me in.” However, she also has strong identity ties with her South Asian heritage even though she was born in America; she talked through her struggle between reconciling the differences between the two identities: South Asians, in general, really do value education; they value family, they value like, loyalty, and those are all great things. But I think as I got older, I kind of saw the negative side of those same things. Yes, you value education…but it’s at the expense of what your kid wants, or yes, you value…family loyalty, but again…what if they’re not doing the right thing? She went on to describe stereotypes of her culture and religion and their applicability to her situation: I don’t think anyone looks at the full picture. Like for example – the arranged marriages? Yes, absolutely…lots of people I know got arranged marriages. But nobody I know is forced into a marriage. …My own marriage wasn’t technically arranged. Like, the meeting was arranged, but…we chose to go forward with it. …So yeah, there’s truth in everything. Amina’s point that there is truth in everything is a phrasing often repeated when people discuss stereotypes, and stereotypes are often accurate (Jussim, 2016; Shpancer, 2018). Just as she pointed out specific stereotypes of South Asians that maybe be applicable, all eight white participants also pointed out varying stereotypes they have heard about white people. Furthermore, all eight also identified which of those applied to them personally. Though stereotyping is an overgeneralization and often unfair, it is notable that all participants in this study articulated that some of their named stereotypes for their race applied to them. **Participants’ Views of Other Racial Demographics.** People can name and identify with stereotypes regarding their race. Still, it is socially and morally unacceptable for them to determine which stereotypes apply to people outside of their race. Therefore, rather than asking about stereotypes for people outside of their race, I asked a more straightforward question to determine how participants viewed people outside of their race, “how do you view people outside of your race when you first encounter them?” Empathetic. Most participants responded to the question with language that indicated sentiments of empathy. Kenny, Nate, Steve, and Thomas expressed that they appreciate all people and do their best to empathize with their perspectives. Kenny had the most detailed response: I don’t see all people as the same because that’s just not how it works. You know, people’s lived experiences have largely been dictated, especially in America, by the color of their skin… I try to be empathetic and try to understand where they’re coming from and what may be their experience due to their race has led them to believe, or how it’s led them to act in the situation, I guess. Again, I don’t want to say that I don’t see race, but it’s like when I’m dealing with a Person of Color. I don’t – that’s not the forefront of my thought when I’m dealing with them. I’m trying to deal with them as a person, and then if the issue of race gets brought up, then I try to see, you know, how their race- how their racial identity have affected this and then how can I be an ally for them to deal with this issue? Nate had a phrase he repeated over and over throughout his interview – ‘people are people.’ At first, when I noted this phrase as an in vivo code, I perceived it as his way of saying that he maintains an attitude of colorblindness, which is damaging to People of Color (Eberhardt, 2019; Williams, 2011). However, as I employed value coding with further analysis, I recognized that he appreciates the variations amongst racial groups and honestly does look for the quality of a person’s character: I want to learn…how they live, just because that’s how I am. I see people are people, but they’re different….I am comfortable around people outside of my race, and I interact with people daily. People are people. Their race and culture should be appreciated, and I learn from them. Similarly, Steve appreciates other races and looks to learn from them, mainly because his childhood exposure to various races was limited. He described in his journal: Again, due to my limited experiences as a youth, I will admit to not wanting to embarrass myself when interacting with people outside of my race. I strive to get them to understand that I want to just treat them as a real person. My own social anxieties and personal proclivities probably hinder those interactions, especially when they are brief in duration. At the same time, Thomas described how when he encounters People of Color, he is immediately aware that they have likely had a very different experience from him. If I see a Person of Color, like in my school district, or just in my area, I’m aware of, *you are a minority here* in the sense of like, I’m aware that, that they probably have experienced some sort of racism toward them. While empathy may not be overly assertive or explicitly worded as such, the overall attitude conveyed by these four participants was openness, acceptance, and appreciation throughout the interviews. **Normalization.** This study’s essence is to evaluate the history of normalizing whiteness in American history courses. In that same sense, it is essential to understand the mentality of American history teachers and how they are working to decentralize white people and reframe the narrative to normalize BIPOC. This understanding begins with the mindset of the teachers and how they perceive BIPOC in their everyday perspective. Ellen, Nolan, and Charles stood out with their responses to my question about what goes through their minds when encountering a Person of Color. While Nolan and Charles made their points very briefly, Ellen had to take some time to explain her mindset, likely because it was not a question she had ever considered before. I personally don’t care what somebody else’s race is. I tend to care more about who somebody is as a person; what you look like or what color you are doesn’t reflect what kind of person you are at all. So, it really doesn’t matter to me….If somebody’s a bad person, they’re a bad person - I don’t care what color their skin is. If somebody is going to be weird and creepy, they’re gonna be weird and creepy, no matter what color they are, or if they’re mean, they’re gonna be mean, no matter what color they are, that’s not going to affect my interaction with them. In her journal, Ellen was able to articulate her mentality more: I definitely try to be colorblind and do not consider myself racist at all. I have very infrequent interactions with people of other races because I live in an area that is virtually 100% white. However, when I do have them, I feel comfortable; people are just people. Despite Ellen’s use of the word “colorblind,” given its negative connotation discussed in Chapter 2, it is necessary to examine her other statements to determine if her use of the word indicates unconsciousness/racial apathy or if it is being used subconsciously to convey a sentiment, she is unsure of how to articulate. Based on the context of her other remarks about working toward including diversity in her curriculum to present People of Color to her 100% white students, I deduce that Ellen’s intentionality is to normalize People of Color in America’s narrative, even if her vocabulary lacks the appropriate antiracist terminology. This same intentionality is reflected in Nolan when I asked him about his thought process when he encounters BIPOC, “I don’t consciously think about it. They’re just another person.” Charles also described his thought process: When I go up to everyone, I think the same thing. *Hey, how are you*…not much goes to my head. I try to think the best of people. …You know, *what’s going on with you in your life?* is my first thought. Charles did go on to describe his desire for all races to be normalized and society can move towards a post-racial mindset: Well, I mean, just think of this whole interview, right? We’re talking about the way different races or colors are interacting in America, right? We’re still living in, you know, a world that sees race, right? So that’s the conversation we’re having. But you know, you need to find somewhere where you acknowledge this race world but also strive for a world right where we are communicating with each other enough that we can overcome these constructs of race within the next couple what 100 years, 200 years. Charles is a white father of a Person of Color and has a close romantic relationship with a Person of Color. While he is likely fully appreciative of his child and girlfriend’s non-white race, Charles, along with Nolan and Ellen, expressed intentionality to normalize non-white people in white people’s perceptions. They indicated they would do this by setting a precedent to encounter BIPOC as they would a white person. While this may appear to be a fundamental act, this is not always the case. Admittedly Bias. Amina and Wyatt communicated their respective biases regarding people outside their racial group. Amina mentioned several times throughout the interviews that she had an affinity for white people: Growing up, I preferred white people, like I had a very strong preference, just because that’s kind of the culture that we grew up in.’ In her journal, she described the bias she felt toward African Americans: ‘I’m more comfortable now more than ever, but when I was younger, I was, I think, a little of afraid of Black people. Similarly, Wyatt discussed his struggle with bias with me: “sometimes in my past, I’ve caught myself looking at people of other races. And it’s like, well, you know, kind of letting that … like those biases be known … kind of like that societal conditioning.” However, there was a notable difference between the two in their descriptions. As previously stated, Amina’s preference for white people was pretty clear to her. However, when she began to discuss other People of Color, she seemed instead taken off guard by her wording: That same semester is when I took [history of] China, that same semester was when I took [the history of] North Africa, but I didn’t like the teachers in either of those. And you know what? Both of them have an accent……Now that I think about it. Man, people in my own family have accents, and here I am…[I’m] totally dumbfounded. Whereas Wyatt described how he was working on his bias in therapy and was open to sharing more about that experience from when he felt he was experiencing discrimination. While I already included this passage in the last chapter, it is worth repeating because I analyzed it with the scope of the findings of this chapter as well: I’m not gonna turn you into my therapist for this. But it was something, you know, I was perceiving myself to be the victim of racism from Black and Brown kids. And, you know, they would target me for being the small white kid. And I perceived that as ‘well, they’re picking on me because of my race.’ So that in turn, you know, I kind of thought I’d fight fire with fire. I’d heard that before. So…I kind of became racist myself. Well, not ‘kind of.’ I was. I was racist in middle school. And yeah…That’s- you know- I’ve gotten past that - I’m working past it with my therapist. But um, that was one time whenever I really, really thought that I was kind of getting targeted for being white at a predominantly Black and Latino school. Wyatt described the progress he had made in his journal: “I am very comfortable interacting with members outside of my own race and racial identity. I interact with people of varying races every day in a professional setting, and nothing outside of that.” Wyatt’s realization of his bias versus Amina feeling “dumbfounded” are two examples that represent many Americans regarding how they view people of a race different from their own. Namely, their level of consciousness or awareness is a defining factor in determining one’s racial lens. **Comparison of Participants’ Racial Lens to Nationwide Survey.** To triangulate the data, I included a nationwide survey that explored the racial lens of 349 secondary social studies teachers. Following a similar line of questioning that I used in the participant interviews and journals, the survey results paint a particular picture of the racial lenses of secondary social studies teachers within the United States. The sample size was fractional of the population because I distributed the survey on politically and racially neutral social media pages for secondary social studies teachers. Therefore, I have every reason to believe the sample is representative of secondary social studies teachers within the United States. While I collected over 425 surveys, I counted in the results only those whose completion rate was 50% or greater; this totaled 349. Figures 7 and 8 show two sets of data – the first is from the participants, and the second is from the national survey. The first set is responses to a question that asked social studies teachers to identify where they consider themselves to fall within these various definitions. These results reflect how the participants see themselves regarding race, their racial outlook, and their approach to racism issues. Racial (Sub/Un)Consciousness Regardless of how participants viewed their racial identity or others outside of their race, a person’s racial lens is half of the equation when considering the scope of their racial optics. The other piece that must be analyzed is how they are aware of the experiences different racial groupings have. In Figure 6 and Figure 7, I compared how the nine participants self-identified their racial optics and how the 349 nationwide survey participants self-identified theirs. Most participants in both groups self-identified as an ally, with antiracist and not-racist following behind, indicating not a definitive label since this self-identification status is highly subjective and not validated, but rather that the majority of social studies teachers perceive themselves to be allies. Therefore, I look to the evidence for their demonstrations of racial (sub/un)consciousness. Figure 7 Participant Self-Identified Racial Optics ($n = 9$) Teachers’ Self-Identification of Racial Optics - Antiracist: 22% - Ally: 56% - Not Racist: 22% - I’ve got some racist thoughts: 0% - I’ve spoken/acted on my racist thoughts: 0% - I fully acknowledge I am a racist: 0% - Other: 0% Demonstrations of Racial Consciousness. All participants expressed some degree of racial consciousness in their interviews and journals. They all are aware of racial issues in the United States. They are all familiar with the terminology popularized in the last five years. They all recognize that the white narrative has been centralized in history. Based on their responses and rhetoric, Nolan, Kenny, and Charles stood out as more aware and passionate about race issues than the others. Kenny spoke about awareness of his privilege and working towards being an antiracist; he articulated his views on both in his journal. As a tall, white cis man, I’ve benefitted in all senses from my identity. This country was made by and for people like me, and that needs to change. I feel very strongly that it is my duty to create a safe space for students to investigate issues surrounding race, both in history and within themselves, and I am proud to provide that space to my students. I am proud to be an antiracist ally, and that aspect of my identity is one of the few ‘political’ things I reveal to my students about myself. I am very comfortable with People of Color and have worked and lived with them for most of my adult life. Kenny’s awareness of the benefit his whiteness (as well as sexual orientation and gender) has had on his life illustrated the level of his racial consciousness. Charles described the influence an educator had on him because of their classroom discussions on being an activist: And so, as we moved more into talk about race in my life, I’ve thought about how you know…my Friends of Color, People I know of Color, being affected. Why shouldn’t I listen to them and actively try to make it so they don’t have to deal with these things? Charles also discussed in his journal his appreciation for all races: No, I am not oppressed, and I do not try to be colorblind; rather appreciate all races for what they bring to the table from their culture. I am always aspiring to be antiracist and frequent my interactions with people of different races daily. Finally, Nolan garnered the most passion and emotion when discussing his mentality on racial issues. I asked him his perspective of the country’s racial strife from an American citizen’s point of view: Our country’s pretty shit, isn’t it? …yes, hugely, hugely depressing. Like, this is not who I ever thought America was as a kid. It’s just incredibly, incredibly distressing. It makes me honestly, I mean, I shouldn’t- but it kind of pretty much makes me, like, feel ashamed. He went on in his journal to empathize with his Students of Color: When it comes to Police, there is no respect, particularly among Black students (understandably). That is the biggest area I see a direct and vehement reaction from the students. I have to admit that I largely share their views (qualified immunity is dangerous). Despite his passion for the topic, Nolan did acknowledge that while his mind is antiracist, his actions are not. I include this perspective as one of racial consciousness because intentionality and awareness are crucial factors when considering how racially conscious one is. The only thing that’s changed [by participating in this study] is just kind of a recognition that I’m not really- so my beliefs would be very antiracist. I’m not actually taking any action. So, I can’t say anything about it. Not because I don’t care but because now there’s way…there’s so many other things in life going on. After all the Trump years and all, I think it’s also about political exhaustion, and I almost I don’t want to engage anymore because I get so depressed…so politically exhausted with the seeming regression we took in, how so many elements that I thought weren’t there came out with Trump, and that’s been exhausting. One’s inaction is not an excuse – and actions are essential in revealing the extent to which one is racially conscious. Ultimately, I found that this journal entry can summarize Nolan’s general racially conscious mentality: I’m not colorblind since to be colorblind would be itself a form of oppression by ignoring the systemic oppression prevalent in our society. I try to be antiracist as much as possible. When it comes to bias, there are admittedly a few in there, but I work to make sure that never impacts my interactions with people, and I’m working to get better. For the most part, I’ve found that any bias is much more the result of a person’s cultural and economic background as opposed to anything with the fabricated concept of race. **Demonstrations of Both Racial (Sub)Consciousness.** Three participants overlapped racial consciousness with racially subconscious rhetoric in their journals and interviews. Because of the complexity of the human mind and the limits that can be internalized at one time, people’s level of racial (sub)consciousness is scaffolded. While Nate, Steve, and Thomas did not express overtly racist statements, there is a level of ambiguity in their responses to various questions about racial issues. While Nate expressed a heightened awareness of and empathy towards the plight BIPOC has, he is new to understanding the terminology and mentality of 21st century antiracist ideas. As a result, he appears somewhat unaware of the internal work needed to become more racially conscious, as shown in one of his journal entries: I do not have racial bias. I am not racist; I grew up in a home where racism would not be tolerated with family-friends who meant more than family. Although being in a racist region, my family has treated people as people. Steve is another participant that moved between revealing a racially conscious mentality and racial subconsciousness. He struggled with the awareness of knowing what he wanted to and should do versus what was best for himself and his family. Unfortunately, this is often the case with many white people. One of the things that I talked about [in the journal] was, you know, was the extreme abolitionists, *would you give your life for this?* And like, I remember mentally thinking like, *well, I’d like to say yes, but would I really do that, but would I really risk my life for somebody based off the color of their skin?* I can’t say that I— I probably would. Because of just the things around me and my family and things like that, it would just be like; it would depend more on just, I like to say, the safety of the individual. But maybe if the situation was going to, like a good chance, it would cause my death, I wouldn’t have done anything. But if I could do something…..but I mean, again, I’d like to say that I would, but I still question whether I really would if presented with that situation. Steve also described the Midwest area in which he lives with his family, with his sister and her family living nearby, Now that I have a little boy, um, I mean, I’m thinking about that stuff. But like, I mean, I’m just a firm believer in public schools. So, I think that, like, my son should go to the elementary school that is literally two miles away. But my, my sister specifically put her two kids in private school. So, it’s, you know, these are questions that I’ve been asking myself about this - about racism - when [my sisters’ kids are] 10 and 11. So for the last decade, I’m like, *why did they do that?* And it’s because they’re from [a small midwestern college town with a highly diverse population], and most of the public schools are predominantly African American. And so…I haven’t asked her that outright, but certainly- I’m reading a book about redlining right now. So, I’m fascinated by that subject. And especially redlining in [Midwestern capital city], like in most cities, they just built the interstate right next to the poorest neighborhood that they could find. Thomas is another example of a person whose level of awareness swings between consciousness and subconsciousness. He has spent much time educating himself on racial issues and described in his interviews his Christian faith. Nevertheless, as he reflected on the racial lens scales (Appendix N), he expressed their lack of impact on his mindset: I’m even someone who like, acknowledges, and understands privilege. And that I have it and that I’m biased and that kind of stuff. And so I don’t know what the target audience for those things are. And I don’t know what the utility is intended to be. But it comes across a lot like preaching to the choir. And then if not, if it’s not preaching to the choir, it’s certainly not affecting people like me, who would be open to what they have to say, in actual real resources to use to get People of Color voices into my curriculum, and how I can do that. If you’re going to push stuff like that out, especially you’re going to push that stuff out into public education, you’re going to get backlash, just… it’s going to be wild; it’s going to be more harmful to your cause than it is beneficial. And I think I understand the desire to classify people to help move people towards activism, but I just think it’s all short-sighted. And it’s just gonna lead people, especially people like me who kind of roll your eyes at the end and say, ‘Oh, my goodness, here we go again, you know, here, here I am. Yeah, you know, the privilege talk.’ While Thomas’ sarcasm and frustration in his last sentence are palpable and intentional, what seems to be coming from within his subconscious is that he has grown tired of the race conversation and does not see racism scale tools as effective. **Demonstrations of Racial Subconsciousness.** As mentioned, all participants described some level of being racially conscious or aware of issues and did express some level of empathy. However, there were two participants whose commentary in the interviews and the journal showed repeated signs of ambiguity regarding racial issues and subconscious bias that I found surprising. Amina and Wyatt both had a racial lens that reflected admitted bias towards people outside their race. Therefore, it was likely that they also indicated signs of racial subconsciousness, though it is surprising given Amina is a Woman of Color and Wyatt is the most highly educated. **Amina.** Amina, being the only Person of Color in the study, revealed various levels of racial subconsciousness, which was in itself a subconscious action. I previously shared how she discovered her bias against foreign or non-American accents, which she realized only as she spoke them out loud to me during her interview. She also described how she was aware of how little she does to be active in racial issues: “I could be doing more than what I do. Like, I feel like I’m at the point where I could be more actively antiracist, not just at the education phase.” This was despite having written in her journal entry prior to the interview, “This year, starting in January, I made more of an active effort to educate myself on antiracism. I took a hard look at my own biases- I’m very aware of them.” While she claimed to be “very aware” of her own biases, her bias against non-American accents came as a surprise to her wherein she said she was ‘dumbfounded.’ **Wyatt.** Wyatt also admitted his racial bias when interviewed and seemed highly familiar with modern terminology and concepts because of his recent doctoral-level schooling. However, he revealed subconsciousness as he described himself in his journal entry: I would most likely describe myself as not racist; however, when there is an opportunity to do away with any sort of racism, discrimination, or biases, then I will take the opportunity; I just do not actively go out of my way to seek them out. . . . I believe that I may have racial bias, as I believe everyone does, no matter how antiracist one may claim to be. I do not think that I hold any sort of racist ideals; however, I prefer to shy away from the phrase ‘I’m not racist,’ as this runs you the risk of being branded a racist anyway. He also discussed in an interview how he doesn’t feel any responsibility to change how others view race: You’re gravitating towards what you’re familiar with. I can check that- I can kind of check on my own biases. But I cannot, you know, my whole initial reaction was I can’t snap my fingers and change the hearts and minds of every white cop. I can’t automatically just end white privilege. Wyatt’s subconsciousness continued to emerge as he went on to describe his approach to understanding the high death rate of People of Color when they encounter law enforcement: Not all of the victims, I will say that- I feel like I can say that safely - Not all of the victims, some of them might have had a different outcome had they behaved differently. But most of them - Yeah, I do. I do believe that justice wasn’t served for *a lot* of them. *A lot* of Black men and women *didn’t really deserve to die in many* [emphases added] of those instances. The conditionality of his statements and opinions reveals his level of racial subconsciousness, as he failed to empathize with the outrage many People of Color and antiracist advocates hold regarding law enforcement bias being correlated to their killing of unarmed Black men and women. Outlier: Demonstration of Racial (Sub/un)consciousness. While being unaware of race and racial issues in modern America is likely impossible given the high levels of diversity and exposure to media, humans can be racially unconscious. Charles recalled his experience in China, wherein he encountered racially unconscious people: “I have blonde hair. So, people would grab my hair a lot in public try to, like, I don’t know, take a strand of my hair because they’ve never seen a blonde person before.” If someone has only lived in America, it is unlikely for them to realize many countries are entirely one race and ethnicity and do not have the exposure to multiple racial groups to which Americans are accustomed. Ellen is the only participant who was born, raised, educated, and currently lives in a completely white homogenous community. Although she has encountered People of Color on rare occasions, she only interacts with white people daily, socially, professionally, and communally. Therefore, it was prudent for me to analyze her data for instances where racial unconsciousness may exist. I found that she also demonstrated instances of racial consciousness and some racial subconscious comments. Therefore, I have listed several of her comments back-to-back in Figure 8 for comparison. Synopsis of Racial (Sub/Un)Consciousness. As part of the interview process, I asked the participants to respond to various prompts briefly and give their initial reaction, opinion, or anything they wanted to say about the phrase. I also articulated that it was acceptable to tell if they were unaware of the term. I decided to include this as part of the interview to help determine how they were familiar with current racial issues and terms and if they had an opinion on them. Figures 9 and 10 reflects their answers concerning if they were aware of the issue or phrase, and if so, was their response reflective of racial consciousness, subconsciousness, or unconsciousness. ### Ellen’s Commentary Reflecting Racial (Sub/Un)Consciousness | Examples of Ellen’s Racial Consciousness | ‘If all lives mattered, then we wouldn’t be where we are.’ | ‘When Trump was the President, he kind of said some things that made people feel like it was okay, really, like horrible, racist things. And then once people felt like, *well, if the President says it, why can I say it?* And then people start saying these things and letting out their true feelings, that before was socially polite to keep those terrible things to yourself.’ | |-----------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------| | Examples of Ellen’s Racial Sub-consciousness | ‘I feel like my, my professor now is almost over-compensating a little bit. Like, I don’t disagree…There’s racism, and things like that, that we need to deal with. But just some of that, he doesn’t allow you to have an opinion that’s different.’ | ‘I think the African American and Indigenous people probably get more [of my focus in the curriculum] just because I think if my kids were to encounter somebody of another race, that’s who they would encounter. And I also this probably sounds stupid, um, because it’s not entirely true because the U.S. has some terrible things to all those races, but I feel like the atrocities that have been overlooked towards those races need to be reconciled and need to be brought to light.’ | | Examples of Ellen’s Racial Unconsciousness | ‘But I was kind of surprised at my results, but not really, because I figured my lack of experience, just interacting with people of other races, would probably give me some inherent bias. Like I said, I know I’m not a racist person, but just my lack of experience being around people of other races, I figured would have some impact and did on the quiz results.’ | ‘We have a few Native Americans around, but there’s really not- I mean, I don’t think there’s any African American people that live in our town. And I mean, yeah, I don’t really run into any out and about either. Um, my sister lives in Washington, DC. So, she has a few friends that are Black and Hispanic. A few of them come up with her, you know, when she comes home once in a while, and she stays with us. But other than that, not really. There just hasn’t really been an opportunity.’ | ### Figure 10 **Reactions to Racially Controversial Issues** | Race Issues Prompt | Reflects Racial Consciousness | Reflects Racial Subconsciousness | Reflects Racial Unconsciousness | No or Simple Response | |-----------------------------|-------------------------------|----------------------------------|---------------------------------|-----------------------| | **1619 Project** | Charles; Kenny; Nate; Steve | Amina; Ellen; Nolan; Thomas; Wyatt | | | | | 44% | 56% | | | | **1776 Project** | Nate | Charles; Steve; Wyatt | Amina; Ellen, Kenny; Nolan; | Thomas | | | 11% | 33% | 44% | 11% | | **All Lives Matter** | Amina; Charles; Ellen; Kenny; Nate; Nolan; Steve; Wyatt | | | Thomas | | | 89% | | | 11% | | **Confederate Monuments** | Amina; Charles; Ellen; Kenny; Nate; Nolan; Steve | Wyatt | | Thomas | | | 78% | 11% | | 11% | | **Critical Race Theory** | Amina; Ellen; Kenny; Nate; Steve | Charles; Nolan; Wyatt | | Thomas | | | 56% | 33% | | 11% | | **Kyle Rittenhouse** | Amina; Ellen; Kenny; Steve; Wyatt | Nolan; Thomas | | Charles; Nate | | | 56% | 22% | | 22% | *Note.* The percentages indicate the percentage of the nine total participants whose responses fell into the various categories. The peach shading indicates the category which held most participants. Figure 11 Reactions to Race Terminology | Terminology Prompt | Reflects Racial Consciousness | Reflects Racial Subconsciousness | Reflects Racial Unconsciousness | No or Simple Response | |--------------------|------------------------------|---------------------------------|---------------------------------|-----------------------| | Antiracist | Amina; Charles; Ellen; Kenny; Nate; Nolan; Steve; Wyatt 89% | Ellen 11% | Ellen, Nate 22% | Thomas 11% | | Gatekeeping | Charles; Kenny; Steve; Wyatt 44% | Amina; Nolan 22% | Ellen, Nate 22% | Thomas 11% | | Racial Apathy | Kenny; Nate; Steve 33% | Ellen 11% | Amina; Charles; Nolan; Wyatt 44% | Thomas 11% | | Racial Consciousness | Charles; Ellen; Kenny; Nate; 44% | Amina; Nolan; Steve; Thomas; Wyatt 56% | | | | Subconscious racism | Charles; Ellen; Kenny; Nate; Nolan; Steve; Wyatt 78% | Amina 11% | | Thomas 11% | | Whitewash | Amina; Ellen; Kenny; Nate; Nolan; Steve; Thomas; Wyatt 89% | | | Charles 11% | | White Fragility | Amina; Charles; Ellen; Kenny; Nate; Nolan; Steve; Wyatt 89% | | | Thomas 11% | | White social studies | Steve 11% | Ellen; Kenny; Nate; Wyatt 44% | Amina; Charles; Nolan; Thomas 44% | Ellen; Thomas 22% | | White privilege | Amina; Charles; Kenny; Nate; Nolan; Steve; Wyatt 78% | | | | Note. The percentages indicate the percentage of the nine total participants whose responses fell into the various categories. The peach shading indicates the category which held most participants. Specifically, I categorized the participants in Reflects Racial Consciousness not based on their opinion of the topic/term but on whether they had enough awareness of the topic to have an opinion. I categorized participants under Reflects Racial Subconsciousness for any of the following reasons: a) if their awareness of the topic/term was too minimal for them to form an opinion; b) if the opinion they formed was based on misinformation (according to the fact, not my perception); c) if they articulated that they were indifferent, or d) if they gave an accurate definition as a guess based on subconscious knowledge. I categorized participants under *Reflects Racial Unconsciousness* only if they were completely unaware of the term/topic. Any omission of participants from a specific topic/term is because their answer did not indicate the depth or extent of their knowledge and most likely simply responded with an answer similar to *yes, I’m familiar with that.* Finally, as with the findings on participants’ racial lenses, I have included the responses to a question that asked teachers to select any/all thoughts and opinions they maintain regarding race. Figure 11 shows the results from the participants, and Figure 12 comparatively shows the results from the nationwide survey of 349 secondary social studies teachers. **Figure 12** *Study Participants’ Opinions on Race/ism* ![Graph showing study participants' opinions on race/ism] Comparing the participants to the nationwide results is necessary to determine how consistent the data between the two groups is. With higher consistency comes higher reliability (Chiang et al., 2015). Though the extent and depth of the interviews far surpassed that of the survey, the results show consistency between the two data sets regarding their awareness of their opinions on race/ism. Both groups cited the same views in their top five choices, meaning that most surveys (both the interview participants and the nationwide ones) claimed to hold the stated opinions. Both groups also shared the same least-selected views. The peach coloring in Tables 8 and 9 indicate where both groups shared the belief in the same ranking, indicating consistency between the racial consciousness of the interview participants is mainly in line with that of the nationwide survey participants. Table 8 Interview Participants’ Results for Racial Consciousness | Statement Selected MOST Frequently | Nine Interview Participant Results | 349 Nationwide Survey Results | |------------------------------------|-----------------------------------|-------------------------------| | I believe being white in the United States is easier than being a Person of Color. | #1 selected answer (tied) 67% A total of 6 of 9 people chose this answer. | #1 selected answer 57% A total of 198 people chose this answer. | | I am disheartened that white people have benefited over People of Color, and I’d like to hear how I can best help those affected. | #1 selected answer (tied) 67% A total of 6 of 9 people chose this answer. | #3 selected answer 39% A total of 136 people chose this answer | | I refuse to comply with racism and look to speak the truth to dismantle racist institutions. | #3 selected answer 56% A total 5 of 9 people chose this answer | #2 selected answer 45% A total of 156 people chose this answer. | | I acknowledge whiteness has been oppressive, but there’s not much I can do about it. | #4 selected answer 44% A total of 4 of 9 people chose this answer. | #4 selected answer 36% A total of 127 people chose this answer. | | I am actively involved in changing institutional racism and dismantling white oppression. | #5 selected answer 33% A total of 3 of 9 people chose this answer. | #5 selected answer 21% A total of 75 people chose this answer. | Table 9 Nationwide Survey Results for Racial Consciousness | Statement Selected LEAST Frequently | Nine Interview Participant Results | 349 Nationwide Survey Results | |-------------------------------------|-----------------------------------|-------------------------------| | I believe white people are superior to other racial demographics. | #1 least selected answer (tied) 0% 0 of 9 people chose this answer | #1 least selected answer A total of 2 of 349 people chose this answer. | | I’m not racist, but… | #1 least selected answer (tied) 0% 0 of 9 people chose this answer | #2 least selected answer 2% A total of 7 of 349 people chose this answer. | | I acknowledge whiteness has been oppressive, but there’s not much I can do about it. | #3 least selected answer (tied) 11% 1 of 9 people selected this answer | #3 least selected answer 3.1% Total of 11 of 349 people selected this answer | | Statement | #3 least selected answer (tied) 11% 1 of 9 people selected this answer | #4 least selected answer 3.4% Total of 12 of 349 people selected this answer | |--------------------------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------| | I enjoy the music, sports, and/or culture of non-white people, but I don’t have People of Color in my life personally. | #3 least selected answer (tied) 11% 1 of 9 people selected this answer | #5 least selected answer 7% Total of 25 of 349 selected this answer | | I try not to see color. | #3 least selected answer (tied) 11% 1 of 9 people selected this answer | #6 least selected answer 10% Total of 36 of 349 selected this answer | | Slavery ended long ago; I had nothing to do with it. | #3 least selected answer (tied) 11% 1 of 9 people selected this answer | #6 least selected answer 10% Total of 36 of 349 selected this answer | **Racial Optics and Social Studies Curriculum** At this point in the findings section, it is tempting to combine the participants’ racial lenses and racial (sub/un) consciousness levels and determine the clarity and awareness of their racial optics. However, as discussed in previous chapters, this is a very personal process, not one that I or anyone other than the individual should determine for themselves. Therefore, because the basis of this study is to determine the extent a teacher’s racial optics may have on their curriculum, the final piece of the findings must be to evaluate their curriculum to determine if the participants’ practice is consistent with their pedagogy. **Pedagogy** Pedagogy is commonly defined as the art and science of teaching, which includes a teacher’s methods, how students learn, and the delivered content. As part of the inclusion criteria for the study, each teacher needed some level of autonomy in their classroom. This was so I could ensure they chose and approved their curriculum rather than a curriculum they were required to present without personal input. Based on their interviews and journals, every participant reported that teaching facts and the complete history of the United States are part of their professional and patriotic duty: Do I think that there are things wrong with that history? Sure. Do I think that we don’t talk about everything that we could be talking about? For sure… And I’m sure that they [students] probably realize that. But, like, how are we supposed to actively teach that? Unless you’re cutting out ugly parts of the history? But you can be patriotic and still recognize that your country did wrong. (Amina) It’s interesting that I should be teaching patriotism. What does that mean? As I go through American history, I’m not supposed to talk about the bad stuff? Is that teaching patriotism? I feel that that’s just a very strange thing for a) government to mandate, a government to say, and b) I didn’t know, as a country, we had to find patriotism, for me to find a way to teach it. (Charles) I think part of being a patriot is acknowledging the terrible things that your country has done and taking ownership of it and doing better – not trying to sweep it under the rug or saying, ‘Well, that’s in the past, and it’s history’… That’s something that’s really important to me is giving the whole story, the whole story from all sides and kind of giving my students a chance to really think about how people felt. I think it makes them better people. (Ellen) And so, from my viewpoint, the history of United States is one of racial history, right? You have to teach- you have to talk about racism in order to understand the history of the United States of America. I mean, it plays such an incredibly important role in- so many of these big decisions. (Kenny) I teach facts. I’m going to talk about the Tulsa Riots because it’s a historical event. I’m going to talk about The Civil Rights Movement- it’s a historical…I teach history. And that’s what it is. (Nate) I think we should say like, ‘Hey, guys, we (America) have actually been pretty horrible in the past [and] We’ve done some great things like, you know, World War II - Okay, we’re definitely the good guys. [But] we’ve done some terrible things. How can we not do that again?’ versus this view that seems to think that, like, kids are going to be ashamed if they know their country’s done bad things. And I’m like, well, they [the students] didn’t do it. The only way to make people passionate is to give them something to actually fight for versus just like, ‘Oh, yes, America’s great,’ which doesn’t seem to hold any candle to my kids. (Nolan) But also, to some negative parts of history, that it doesn’t necessarily mean that you have to, like, be completely patriotic the whole time or sometimes being patriotic means claiming negative aspects of the history or negative events that happen. But I want to make sure that it’s both sides that we talk about chall- challenges and successes of the country. (Steve) It’s probably best just to deliver the content and allow the student to decide for themselves if they think this is positive or negative. Maybe that’s been the mistake is trying to get them to believe one thing. Just teach the content, and then they can- they’re going to decide what they want to decide. (Thomas) I try to be as unbiased and as objective as I can whenever I’m really introducing these topics… I do try to be, you know, just give them the facts. Tell them what happened. ‘Here’s what happened. Here’s who did it. Here’s what motivated them. Take it as you will.’ (Wyatt) I listed the traditional units for a U.S. history course during the interviews. Then, I asked the participants to respond with *yes* or *no* if they could, off the top of their heads, think of non-white examples or resources they include when they teach those units. While this was in no way a scientific or conclusive approach to take – the purpose of the exercise was to determine if the teachers’ inclusion of non-white history was included in their teaching of that topic to be recalled instantly. I also asked them to self-assess which of the five races the United States Census Bureau identified most frequently appeared in their overall curriculum and which they included least frequently. I also included Latine as a grouping because that ethnic group is often included as an entire group taught throughout U.S. history. Many participants reported including them as a non-white population often throughout their curriculum. Figures 13 and 14, respectively, show the results of their answers. ## Figure 14 **Participant Self-Reporting on Inclusion of Nonwhite in U.S. History Units** | Name | 13 Colonies | Amer. Rev. | Industrial Age | Turn of 20th | Progression | Imperialism | WWI | Great Depression | Cold War | Post 1990s | Totals Per Person | % of Units Taught Reported to Include BIPOC | |--------|-------------|------------|----------------|--------------|-------------|-------------|-----|------------------|----------|------------|-------------------|-----------------------------------------------| | Ellen | Yes | Yes | XXX | XXX | XXX | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | 7 of 7 units | Teacher Reports 100% | | Charles| Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | 10 of 10 units | Teacher Reports 100% | | Kenny | Yes | No | No | Yes | No | Yes | Yes | No | XXX | XXX | 4 of 8 units | Teacher Reports 50% | | Amina | Yes | Yes | Yes | XXX | XXX | XXX | XXX | XXX | XXX | XXX | 3 of 3 units | Teacher Reports 100% | | Nolan | XXX | XXX | No | Yes | No | No | No | No | No | Yes | 2 of 8 units | Teacher Reports 25% | | Wyatt | Yes | Yes | No | No | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | No | 7 of 10 Units | Teacher Reports 70% | | Nate | Yes | No | No | No | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | No | 6 of 10 units | Teacher reports 60% | | Steve | Yes | XXX | Yes | Yes | XXX | Yes | XXX | XXX | Yes | XXX | 5 of 5 units | Teacher Reports 100% | | Thomas | Yes | XXX | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | No | Yes | No | Yes | 7 of 9 units | Teacher Reports 78% | **Totals per Unit** | | 8 of 8 reporting 100% | 4 of 6 reporting 68% | 4 of 8 reporting 50% | 5 of 7 reporting 71% | 4 of 6 reporting 68% | 7 of 8 reporting 88% | 5 of 7 reporting 71% | 5 of 7 reporting 71% | 5 of 7 reporting 71% | 4 of 6 reporting 68% | |-------------------|-----------------------|----------------------|----------------------|----------------------|----------------------|----------------------|----------------------|----------------------|----------------------|----------------------| | **Note:** "XXX" indicates units the participant reported they did not teach or include in their curriculum either due to the course requirements or because they chose not to include it. Figure 15 Participant Top and Least Included Racial Groups in Their Curriculum | Name | 3 Races Most Included | 3 Races Least Included | Racial Group | Percentage of Participants Reporting Racial Group Inclusion in Top 3 in Their Curriculum | |--------|---------------------------------------|------------------------|----------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------| | Ellen | White; Black; Indigenous | Not reported | Asian | 22% | | Charles| White; Black; Indigenous; Asian | Latino; Pac Islander | Black | 100% | | Kenny | White; Black; Indigenous | Pac Island; Latino; Asian | Indigenous/Native Alaskan | 56% | | Amina | White; Indigenous; Black | Asian | Latinx | 56% | | Nolan | White; Black | Pac Islander; Indigenous | Pac Islander/Hawaiian white | 0% | | Wyatt | White; Latinx; Black | Pac Island/Hawaii | | 100% | | Nate | Black; Latinx; Asian “white is a given” | Pac Island | | | | Steve | Black; Latinx | Hawaiian; Indigenous | | | | Thomas | White; Indigenous; Black | Pac Islander; Alaskan; Asian | | | Practice While participants may believe they include non-white people in their teaching of America’s history, and it may be their intention to do so, the actual reality of the situation is often different. Therefore, I requested access to the participants’ currently used curriculum so I could evaluate it for the inclusion or omission of their racial optics. I required a minimum of six documents from each participant and requested them to be their best representations of their curriculum. The full criteria for the curriculum analysis are found in Appendix O. When I completed the interviews and collected all of the curricula from the participants, I analyzed them using the Curriculum Analysis Rubric (Appendix P) I described in Chapter 3. Once I finished analyzing the participant’s curriculum, I compiled my findings into a Curriculum Profile (see Figure 5). These completed charts are located in Appendix S, though I present an example of the Wyatt curriculum as a sample within the text in Figure 15. This shows my analysis of the six curriculum documents Wyatt submitted to me: four quizzes, one PowerPoint presentation, and class lecture notes. When analyzing these documents, I listed the resource type, its title or unit, and the source. I then went through the following steps and repeated this process for each participant: 1. I identified if non-white racial groupings were present and, if so, which race was presented as a primary narrative of the curriculum. 2. I analyzed if the depiction of non-white racial groupings was being portrayed based on fact and, if so, determined if it was a positive(heroic), neutral, or negative(victim) depiction. 3. I did the same analysis of any white people in the document. 4. I examined the document to determine if it was presented from a particular non-white racial group’s perspective or if it was generically based in a neutrally historical manner. 5. I dissected the curriculum to see if it offered students any critical lens when learning about the racial groups (i.e., were students presented with/asked to look for information that caused them to consider a perspective critically and analytically). 6. I evaluated the documents to see if the curriculum might present multiple racial perspectives. Figure 16 *Wyatt’s Curriculum Profile* | Participant | Resource Type | Title of doc materials | Source | Race Groups Discussed | Race of the Main Narrative | Depiction of nonwhite racial groups | Portrayal or Depiction of white people | Racial Perspective Presented | Region | Impact on Multicultural perspectives | |-------------|---------------|------------------------|--------|-----------------------|----------------------------|-------------------------------------|--------------------------------------|---------------------------------|--------|-------------------------------------| | 1 | PP | Unit I | Unknown | Latinx – most Asian, Indig., Black | Latino-American | Factual | Factually Positive, Neutral or Negative (sad) | HPOC White Neutral or Negative | Yes | Some | No much | No | Some | None | absolutely | | 2 | Quiz | Native American Assimilation | State standards | Indigenous | Indigenous | Factual/neg/ negative | Neutral/nega | Neutral/factual | No | potential | | 3 | Quiz | Imperialism | State standards | Indigo. | White | Factual neg | All | White | Not much | none | | 4 | Quiz | Progressive standards | State standards | None | None | None | None | None | None | none | | 5 | Quiz | 1920s | State standards | None | None | None | None | None | None | none | | 6 | Notes | New Deal | Nepoed | None | None | None | None | None | None | none | *Note.* PP = PowerPoint; neg = negatively (victim); Indign = Indigenous. I repeated this process for each document until the profile was completed. In instances when the participant supplied me with more than six documents, I paired down the Curriculum Profile based on the unit rather than individual documents. I show this in Figure 16 with Thomas’s Curriculum Profile for comparison. **Figure 17** *Thomas’ Curriculum Profile* | Participant | Thomas | Region | Midwest | |-------------|--------|--------|---------| | | Resource Type | Title of doc | Source | Race Groups Discussed | Race of the Main Narrative | Depiction of nonwhite racial groups | Depiction of white people | Racial Perspective Presented | Critical Racial Lens | Impact on Multicultural perspectives | | 1 | Gilded primary/secondary sources | Timeline of Chinese Immigration and Exclusion | Stanford History Ed Group | Asian White | Asian | Neutral – neg/sad | Neg | Asian | Yes | Yes | | 2 | Study guide | Gilded Age study guide | Original | Asian White Black | Asian White Black | Neg/sad Pos | Neutral Neg | Black White | Some | Yes | | 3 | Entire unit | Imperialism | original | Asian White Latinx Haw Alaska | White | Neut | Neut | White/American | Some | absolutely | | 4 | Entire Unit | Industrialization | Original | White | White | None | Neutral | White | None | None | | 5 | Entire Unit | Progressivism | Original | White | White | None | Neutral | White | None | None | | 6 | Entire unit | The West | Original | White Indigen. Latinx Black | White | Pos & neg/sad | Neutral | White, Latinx, black, indigen | Not much probably | | 7 | Entire unit | Domestic 1950s | Original | White Black | White | Neg/sad Post | Neg Neutral | White | No | probably | | 8 | Entire Unit | Cold war | Original | White Latinx Asian | White | Neutral | Neutral | white | Some | Probably not | After completing the Curriculum Profile, I used the Curriculum Analysis Rubric to determine where the participant scored regarding including multiple levels of inclusion of non-white perspectives and history in their social studies content based on the criteria I outlined in Chapter 3. Figure 17 shows Wyatt’s example of the rubric I completed when analyzing his curricula. Figure 18 subsequently scores the rubric, and then I determined the level by which Wyatt’s curriculum included multiple non-white perspectives and history in his American History course. **Figure 18** *Wyatt’s Curriculum Analysis Rubric* Rubric for Curriculum Analysis Participant: Wyatt Rubric measures level of inclusion of non-white perspectives and history in social studies content | Criteria | Unsatisfactory 0 | Unclear 1 | Attempted 2 | Emerging 3 | Excelling 4 | |-------------------------------------------------------------------------|------------------|-----------|-------------|------------|-------------| | **Content: Variety** Variety of BIPOC present in curriculum (Asian, Black, Indigenous Hawaiian/Pacific Islander, Native) | Only white people are discussed throughout the content with or without some ‘token’ BIPOC examples | One non-white racial group is discussed along with white groups within the content | Two or more racial groups are included in less than half of the content | Two or more racial groups are discussed in much of the content with or without white groups | Three+ racial groups are discussed with or without white groups across much of the content | | **Content: Perspective** Histories of various racial groups presented from their perspectives | BIPOC are depicted with negative connotations and cannot be trusted to be accurate | The depiction of BIPOC are given from a Eurocentric standard perspective | Histories of BIPOC appear neutral, fair, and present no bias towards or against racial groups | The depictions of BIPOC are given some nuance to their perspectives | The depictions of BIPOC are made from their perspective | | **Content: Equity** Discussion and learning about the oppression of BIPOC in history and highlights their previously unacknowledged contributions to human progress | The content speaks generically to the history and doesn’t discuss people and or white people are only present | BIPOC are present and oppression is learned about but there are few to no examples of positive contributions to history | BIPOC are present. Many examples of oppression and positive contributions are learned; little focus is given | BIPOC are present. Many examples of oppression and positive contributions is learned; some focus is given | 3-3 BIPOC are highlighted as a focus giving specific examples of various types of oppression and/or positive contributions | | **Normalization:** BIPOC are weaved seamlessly as the main or equivalent narrative | BIPOC are notably absent from the content | BIPOC are singled out as a special exception to the main white narrative | BIPOC are included throughout but not as a main narrative | BIPOC are singled out but still included as a main narrative | BIPOC are not singled out but rather are naturally included in the main narrative of history | | **Critical Lens:** Students are guided through information and discussions that lead them to examine the content closely and consider the inclusion of gaps in the information about race | Does not require critical examining content through a critical racial lens | Asks students to think critically but not about varying racial populations | Students are led to examine content and consider the inclusion of gaps, but lacks in effort or efficacy | Guides students to critical examination of various perspectives of different populations | Requires that students creatively consider the multiple perspectives of various populations and identify gaps in the resources | | **Impact on multicultural perspectives:** Potential to impact students to reflect on the relevance of multicultural groups and takes an effective approach towards racial diversity | Does not offer impact, relevance or effectiveness in challenging perspectives of multicultural groups | Does not give any indication of one or two of the following: impact, relevance, or effectiveness | Reflects impactful, relevant, and effective approaches toward racial diversity | Somewhat impactful, relevant and effective approach towards racial diversity | Highly impactful, relevant and effective approach towards racial diversity | | **Bonus Points: Authorship** Resources authored by BIPOC | Some resources authored by BIPOC Bonus points: +2 | Many resources authored by BIPOC Bonus points: +3 | **Figure 19** *Wyatt’s Curriculum Rubric Score* --- ### Rubric for Curriculum Analysis Rubric measures level of inclusion of non-white perspectives and history in social studies content | Scoring Guide | Participant: Wyatt | Score: 12 | |---------------|--------------------|-----------| | **Unsatisfactory** | **Unclear** | **Attempted** | **Emerging** | **Excelling** | | **0 – 4 pts.** | This curriculum appears to whitewash history. Anyone who receives the information taught with this content will likely not learn the valuable contributions or rich history People of Color have within the United States. The curriculum – regardless of intentionality - will likely lead its students into falsely believing the white narrative is the only one important enough to be taught | **5 - 9 pts.** | This curriculum presents American history from a primarily white perspective, as it has traditionally been taught. It doesn’t allow sufficient availability to and teaching of the value and contributions People of Color have made to the country. There is little intentionality – if any – to include People of Color in America’s history beyond the traditional topics and perspectives in which they have been included | **10 - 14 pts.** | This curriculum includes People of Color alongside the traditionally taught white narrative. However the white narrative remains the featured story, thereby marginalizing People of Color. Further intentionality needs to be contributed to offer equity to People of Color in America’s history. | **15 - 19 pts.** | This curriculum includes People of Color to a similar extent as white people in the teaching of American history. This curriculum reflects equality in that it offers a balanced narrative that allows People of Color to be normalized in the telling of American history. Further intentionality is needed to truly offer an equitable perspective of the impact People of Color have had on American history. | **20 - 24 pts.** | This curriculum elevates People of Color above the white narrative in order to give equitable perceptions of the value BIPOC have had in the telling of America’s history. Utilizing this curriculum would guide learners to see People of Color as valuable stakeholders in the progress and success of the country and presents history from their perspective, thus positively impacting how the learner understands various racial groups. | *Note:* The shaded blue area denotes the over score of the participant’s Curriculum Rubric, in this case, Wyatt’s curriculum fell into the ‘Attempted’ category for level of inclusion of non-white perspectives and history in social studies content. **Inclusion or Omission of Teachers’ Racial Optics in Their Curriculum** Research question three asked, *how have these teachers included or omitted their views of race within their curriculum?* To address this question, I needed to compare the participants’ racial optics, *perceived* pedagogy, and the curriculum evidence they supplied. To present these findings most succinctly, I have taken the results from the following data sets, which were then compiled into Table 10 for an overarching comparative chart: I then took Table 10 and compared its findings to each participant’s Curriculum Rubric and Scoring to answer the research question. My findings show that of the nine interview participants, 78% (seven out of nine) have created a curriculum and chosen resources that reflect their racial optics, intentionally or unintentionally. I did not see Nolan’s and Ellen’s racial optics reflected in their curriculum. They both described interest and passion for including multiple races in their curriculum; however, they have not done so – at least regarding the curriculum, they submitted for this study. This is shown in Table 11. ### Table 10 **Participants’ Self-Identified Racial Optics Versus Data Analysis of Participant Racial Optics** | Name | Participants’ Self-Reported Racial Optics | Participants’ Awareness of Racial Issues and Terms | Participants’ Perceived Inclusion of Multiple Races | Study’s Analyzed Data of Participants | |------|------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------| | | Figure 6 | Figures 9 & 10 | Figure 13 | Appendix Q | | Amina| Not Racist | Racially Conscious | Reports 100% inclusion of BIPOC | Ally | | Nolan| Ally | Racially Conscious | Reports 25% inclusion of BIPOC | Ally | | Wyatt| Not Racist | Racially Conscious | Reports 70% inclusion of BIPOC | Privilege | | Nate | Antiracist | Racially Conscious | Reports 60% inclusion of BIPOC | Ally | | Steve| Ally | Racially Conscious | Reports 100% inclusion of BIPOC | Undetermined | | Thomas| Ally | undetermined | Reports 78% inclusion of BIPOC | Ally | | Charles| Antiracist | Racially Conscious | Reports 100% inclusion of BIPOC | Antiracist | | Ellen | Ally | Racially Conscious | Reports 100% inclusion of BIPOC | Ally/Privileged | | Kenny| Ally | Racially Conscious | Reports 50% inclusion of BIPOC | Antiracist | **Note:** ‘pts.’ = points. The Rubric Scoring Guide is in Appendix P and contains the evaluative description of the participants’ scores. The scores are based on a 24-point scale with Unsatisfactory = 0-4 points; Unclear = 5-9 points; Attempted = 10-14 points; Emerging = 15-19 points; and Excelling = 20-24 points. ### Table 11 **Participants’ Inclusion/Omission of Racial Optics in Their Curriculum** | Participant | Teacher Racial Optics | Teacher Curriculum | Evidence of Teacher’s Racial Optics Omitted/ Included in Curriculum? | |-------------|-----------------------|--------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------| | Amina | Survey | Ally | Attempted | Yes – teachers’ racial optics are reflected in their curriculum. | | | Self- Report | Not racist | | | | | Racial Con. Level: | Racially Conscious | | | | | Figures 10&11 | | | | | Nolan | Survey | Ally | Unclear | No – teachers’ racial optics are not reflected in their curriculum. | | | Self- Report | Ally | | | | | Racial Con. Level: | Racially Conscious | | | | | Figures 10&11 | | | | | Wyatt | Survey | Privileged | Attempted | Yes – teachers’ racial optics are reflected in their curriculum. | | | Self- Report | Not racist | | | | | Racial Con. Level: | Racially Conscious | | | | | Figures 10&11 | | | | | Nate | Survey | Ally | Attempted | Yes – teachers’ racial optics are reflected in their curriculum. | | | Self- Report | Antiracist | | | | | Racial Con. Level: | Racially Conscious | | | | | Figures 10&11 | | | | | Steve | Survey | Undetermined | Attempted | Yes – teachers’ racial optics are reflected in their curriculum. | | | Self- Report | Ally | | | | | Racial Con. Level: | Racially Conscious | | | | | Figures 10&11 | | | | | Thomas | Survey | Ally | Emerging | Yes – teachers’ racial optics are reflected in their curriculum. | | | Self- Report | Ally | | | | | Racial Con. Level: | undetermined | | | | | Figures 10&11 | | | | | Charles | Survey | Antiracist | Emerging | Yes – teachers’ racial optics are reflected in their curriculum. | | | Self- Report | Antiracist | | | | | Racial Con. Level: | Racially Conscious | | | | | Figures 10&11 | | | | | Ellen | Survey | Privileged and ally | Unsatisfactory | No – teachers’ racial optics are not reflected in their curriculum.| | | Self- Report | Ally | | | | | Racial Con. Level: | Racially Conscious | | | | | Figures 10&11 | | | | | Kenny | Survey | Antiracist | Emerging | Yes – teachers’ racial optics are reflected in their curriculum. | | | Self- Report | Ally | | | | | Racial Con. Level: | Racially Conscious | | | | | Figures 10&11 | | | | Teachers’ Racial Optics Included in Their Curriculum. *Amina.* Amina showed evidence of being racially conscious and is still learning and admitting personal bias. Her curriculum reflects some inclusions of BIPOC equitably and appropriately, yet not as consistently as she believes. Regardless, her racial optics are present in her curriculum content and resources. *Charles.* Charles is a self-reported antiracist with a personal investment in the equity of BIPOC. He has contributed personal time towards learning how to be an antiracist ally professionally. His curriculum primarily reflects his racial optics in that BIPOC are presented at times as the main narrative and requires students to think critically and from varying perspectives. *Kenny.* Kenny is a self-reported antiracist ally and is racially conscious. His curriculum highly reflects his racial optics, as he had chosen resources and books specifically to present varying perspectives and draw attention to the whitewashing of history. *Nate.* Nate is in the beginning stages of learning about antiracism. While he classifies himself as an antiracist, he reports that his actions do not reflect that. He is racially conscious, sensitive to BIPOC’s history of oppression, and includes equity and equality in his curriculum. While Nate may not yet be an *active* antiracist ally in his personal life, his curriculum does reflect this mentality. *Steve.* Steve is racially conscious of and sensitive to racial issues. Though he is a self-described ally, he has no personal connection with BIPOC. His ideals and mindset reflect allyship, and he has taken an interest in educating himself about racially charged issues. His curriculum attempts to include equitable teaching of BIPOC history within the United States. Thomas. Thomas’s mentality and thought process reflect allyship. His curriculum reflects this mentality, with multiple racial groups present throughout and mainly depicted from their perspective; BIPOC are often included in the main narrative. Wyatt. Wyatt is a self-proclaimed *not-racist* working through racism issues; he is racially conscious and aware of his privilege but does little to be sensitive to it or move beyond it. His curriculum similarly includes some sensitivity towards and teaching of BIPOC’s contributions to American history, though they are not as consistently present—which reinforces his curriculum reflects his optics. **Teachers’ Racial Optics Omitted from Their Curriculum.** Ellen. Ellen describes herself as an ally, but some of her interview answers reflect her white privilege. She is still learning about antiracism and is racially conscious, looking to learn more and diversify her content despite her homogenous surroundings. However, her curriculum does not reflect her mentality and interest in diversity. Instead, it presents American history as white except for traditionally taught interracial topics. Nolan. Nolan is racially conscious and expresses strong antiracist thoughts and opinions but has not acted on these thoughts. His curriculum minimally includes POC beyond traditional topics. While 78% of participants’ curricula reflected their racial optics, it is essential to note that not all curricula excelled at presenting a multiple racial approach to American history. In fact, none of the participants’ curricula reflected the highest rating on the Curriculum Rubric. Instead, there were three participants at the Emerging level (Charles, Kenny, and Thomas), four participants at the Attempted level (Amina, Wyatt, Nate, and Steve), one at the Unclear level (Nolan), and one at the Unsatisfactory level (Ellen). Figure 19 shows a visual representation similar to that found in Chapter 2 with the racial optics results from the participants. Why social studies teachers do not include multiple races equitably when teaching American history is an important question to ask – and one to which participants easily and readily responded, which is the subject of Chapter 6. **Figure 20** *Racial Optics of Participants* - **Racial Identity** - Which race(s) one identifies as - **Racial Lens** - One’s worldview/perspective because of their race - **Racial Unconscious** - Level of unawareness of/ignorance to race-based issues and disparities - **Racial Subconscious** - Level of indifference of/apathy towards race-based issues and disparities - **Racial Consciousness** - Level of awareness of race-based issues and disparities **Summary of Finding 2** In this chapter, I explored the findings of the phenomenological interview study I conducted to explore if and how a teacher’s racial optics impact what they teach in their social studies classrooms. I specifically answered research questions two and three - *how have secondary social studies teachers interpreted their racial lenses and consciousnesses?* and *how* has that been included or omitted in their curriculum? Ultimately, I discovered that 78% of my participants’ curriculum reflected their racial optics to some degree, though not fully comprehensive of their perspectives on race or entirely inclusive of multiple racial groups throughout their American history curriculum. The remaining 22% did not have a curriculum that reflected their racial optics. Chapter 6 will present the findings regarding the gap between the participants’ pedagogy and racial optics and their curriculum and practice. CHAPTER 6 FINDINGS 3 – RECONCILING THE GAP In Chapter 1, I introduced the study and presented its current context and the gap within the field that this study will fill. In Chapter 2, I reviewed the literature regarding the theoretical framework of this study – critical whiteness theory – and discussed the context and history of secondary social studies education that has existed up through the twenty-first century in the United States. Chapter 3 outlined the study’s qualitative methods, primarily phenomenological interviews with nine secondary U.S. history teachers. I also presented my approach to analyzing the collected data in the semi structured interviews, journals, surveys, and curriculum analyses. Chapter 4 detailed this study’s first set of findings, including how secondary social studies teachers experience(d) learning about race and racism within their educations, careers, and personal lives. Chapter 5 presented the second set of findings for this study, which consisted of determining and understanding the participants’ racial optics and how they may or may not be reflected in their curriculum. This chapter will present the third and final set of findings discussing the gap between secondary social studies teachers’ racial optics and their practice. First, I wanted to determine why these participants are not consistently teaching multiple - if not all - racial groups when teaching the history of America, even though all five racial groups have contributed to America’s history since its foundation. Therefore, I asked each teacher what roadblocks or hindrances exist for them in their situations that prevent them from teaching history how they want to and with multiple races within the main narrative. Each participant cited numerous reasons. The Responsibility of Gatekeeping Gatekeeping in the social studies classroom determines what content is taught and how history content is filtered for student learning (Hawley & Whitman, 2020; Thornton, 1989). While traditionally, teachers have been the gatekeepers of social studies content in schools, there has been significant attention in the last five years in the United States to what teachers teach in social studies classrooms. Parents, politicians, and media pushback, specifically about how students learn about race and racial perspectives within U.S. history courses, has come with an onslaught of regulations, mandates, and laws. These mandates prevent teachers from discussing topics of American history that may cause children of a particular race to feel guilty about atrocities committed by people of their race decades and centuries in the past or even in present-day. The participants that spoke about critical race theory legislations, adapting curriculum to include multiple race narratives, or hindrances in their situations that prevent them from teaching what and how they want all described reasons of government oversight, state/district guidelines, and fear. Guidelines by District/State All nine participants had reservations or outright objections to the state or federal government controlling what is taught in their classrooms. While Thomas and Charles stated they did not believe the government should speak on social studies content, others went into more specific detail as they thought through the question of who, if anyone, should determine what secondary classrooms around the country are teaching. Kenny considered the question carefully: I think there should be some sort of oversight. I don’t know if they should mandate or ban, though I don’t know if they should go to the point where they are dictating curriculum…we go back to this idea of like…as a teacher, I am a professional, and I should be given credit for my professionalism, but then I can think of plenty of teachers who are not professional, who- you know, we might want to have not discussed things with kids, you know? But I would say no. Mandating or banning? No, I don’t think so. Steve had firm and specific opinions about whom he believed should be making content decisions in the classroom. His argument largely echoed those of several other participants: I think it should be up to the school board, the teacher, the professional learning community…here, we have discussions about what we’re going to teach what topics and, especially world geography, but U.S. history has one as well, that they can kind of have conversations about what gets involved…I really want to when I close my door; I want to be able to teach whatever I want. I want to have those discussions. And I’m certainly welcoming anybody in that wants to be a part of that. But I don’t want to be told, ‘Hey, no, you can’t.’ I just want like an overview of like, here are the standards, and there’s lots of leeway, but I don’t want specifically, ‘Hey, you can’t teach this. You can’t teach that.’ Because I know my kids…I think having [an] antiracism or just a race set of standards for discussion questions would be really helpful for most teachers. Ultimately, several participants - Steve, Kenny, Thomas, and Wyatt - believe that social studies content should be determined partly by the teacher or department and partly by the school board or some other local oversight committee. They also believe that standards should define the nature and consistency of multiple racial histories included and/or required within secondary social studies. While Wyatt pondered the idea of having a national set of guidelines under specific parameters: “…like, hey, we pulled educators from all 50 states, and they came together, and they said, ‘This is what you should probably be teaching for geography, history, government, whatever it might be.’ Maybe something loose, not necessarily mandate.” Amina pointed out the danger in having government determine what is taught in social studies classrooms: So, I understand from a country’s standpoint, how you would be concerned about what’s being taught specifically in social studies classrooms, just because you want citizens to grow up and, I guess, respect your country…. like I understand that. However, if you are doing that by banning things or by hiding your own history, then you are not creating citizens who are critical thinkers. You’re going to create just very patriotic [nationalistic] citizens, which is totally fine. They also run the country, but you need people to like, be able to kind of [examine the] nuances of history. The thing is that if you really do cut all that out, then you’re just going to continue the system that *that* built. Participants would describe hesitation and fear of taking bolder steps to include multiple racial perspectives from this same concept throughout their curriculum. **Fear and Overregulation** When asked about oversight and regulations imparted in the social studies classrooms, many participants relayed stories of colleagues who had trouble. Nate discussed a teacher who had Fox News on in his room one day and was reported because he was teaching critical race theory – even though he was not – it was part of a news story on the broadcast. The students told their parents that CRT was brought up in class that day, despite the state’s mandate against it. Nate, however, noted that he was less concerned because he was confident that the history of racism in the United States would cause strong emotion. However, despite the ban, he uses history to protect his job security: ‘if a parent confronts me, I say- “I teach facts. I’m going to talk about the Tulsa Riots because it’s a historical event. I’m going to talk about The Civil Rights Movement- it’s historical. …I teach history.”’ Kenny also described a teacher in his department who received pushback: “The sociology teacher was teaching [something about] BLM, and they got some issues with parents. And the freshman ELA - they teach *The Hate You Give*, and so they got in some issues with parents as well.” Ellen, Amina, and Nolan described their fears about teaching race and racism in America’s history. Ellen has never had pushback from parents, but she expressed her fear: *I want [the students] to see the story from all sides. But I also don’t want to overstep because if I- if I accidentally go too far and make it look like I’m trying to push any sort of agenda, there’s going to be parents down my throat…. parents misinterpreting it as me pushing a liberal agenda or something like that, where I wouldn’t even consider myself necessarily liberal at all.* Amina admitted to outright avoidance of discussing current issues with her students: The pushback from parents is one—really one of the main reasons I don’t do current politics just because I don’t, not that I think that anything that any [of my students]—like I have a really good relationship with them. Not that I think anyone will call anyone out, but I do live in [the South]. Nolan described his fear of the long-term effects of the overregulation of racism events taught in social studies. “It makes me afraid that…teachers are going to backslide out of fear and just not talk about things that they’re supposed to because they don’t want to deal with angry parents…” While this is not the first time in America’s history that classroom content and curriculum have been politicized (i.e., Scopes Trial), it is undoubtedly the first time it has been this rampant and expeditious, likely because of social media. Ultimately, Americans must determine the collective goal of the U.S. history classroom for secondary students—a question that has been asked since the country’s founding. Historian Adam Laats (2015) writes: Is the point of history class to introduce the young Americans to their heritage of heroes, the glories of American history? Or is history class supposed to make young people into critical examiners of their society, a true civic education that teaches American young people to question every bit of received wisdom and be ready to change what needs changing? (para. 16). Indeed, this is the purpose of the NCSS and their National Curriculum Standards for Social Studies. While they are not federally mandated, they are the common guide states use in defining their goals for social studies students. **Lack of Time** For social studies teachers, the lack of time they have in their classroom to cover their content has remained a part of the challenge of the profession’s nature. However in 21st century United States, several factors further impede teachers’ ability to now not only cover their content but to do so in a manner that allows for students to see the full scope of America’s true narrative. Said factors include issues with standards, requirements of standardized testing, student’s disinterest in their own education and learning loss following the COVID-19 pandemic, According to the National Center for Education Statistics (2018) - the most recent statistic on statewide social studies assessments administered by grade - 29 states require some sort of state exam for social studies. Eight states require the U.S. citizenship test; eleven require a U.S. history test; ten require other social studies tests such as government, civics, economics, or generic social studies. Of the nine participants, only Amina, Nolan, and Wyatt resided in states where social studies were a tested subject. Therefore, it is likely not a coincidence that they were the only three participants to have strong opinions on state standards and testing as being a hindrance in what and how they teach. Nolan spoke at length on his state’s testing: The problem is my curriculum - I teach a tested subject… I have to teach…. the state standards. So, while I would love to say, ‘oh, let’s go beyond it and explore these perspectives,’ the reality is, I have enough trouble just getting my kids to understand the things that they need for the test. It’s fucking awful. I hate it. I absolutely hate it. It’s the wrong way to approach teaching history 1,000,000%. But the reality is that I just don’t have the room to incorporate that because I’ve got to get these stupid, bland, unimportant things out of the way. And unless they include it, there’s not much time, I can throw it in. But really, yeah, I’m not….I’m not teaching it [multiple race groups’ history] enough. But I’m not sure how to, given the constraints placed on me….Unless it’s a specific state standard that mentions it….those are the considerations - what’s the best way to get the standard across? Anything else is kind of icing on the cake at the last minute. It’s never really discussed – like, that would be a personal decision on the teacher, but it’s never discussed in planning. Nolan’s concern and frustration were palpable. Amina was the only participant who described her state’s standards as being the cause for white social studies: “People don’t care that most of our standards are white-centered. Just cause I have the freedom to [teach multiple racial perspectives], I don’t have time for it.” Nate lives in a state that just eliminated its standardized testing of U.S. history: “That was a hindrance, but we don’t have that anymore. We rewrote our own pretest and posttest for that. Right now, there’s not really too many hindrances.” Student Apathy and Ability There is no denying that teachers have become exhausted and frustrated. Teaching unlimited content in a limited time, along with the havoc the COVID-19 pandemic has had on student learning, the participants were not reluctant to admit they were exhausted and frustrated. While they would love to incorporate more racial groups in their American history content, teachers are often just concerned with keeping their students at grade level and engaged in their education. Ellen used a word cited enough to be an in-vivo code – apathetic. “The other thing is apathetic children…if it doesn’t pertain directly to them, they’re not very concerned. I’m struggling with a way to make it interesting to them.” Thomas, Wyatt, and Nolan were much blunter in their description of student apathy: Some of these kids get it, but by and large, it’s just trying to get them to care. And that’s been the real big obstacle this year, last year, too, but this year, as well, trying to get them, you know, *just do the work just give a rip – please - about something*. And that’s been the biggest kind of hurdle that me and, you know, every other teacher is facing. (Wyatt) But the reality is, I’m just trying to get them to understand the most basic things to pass and graduate high school at this point. That sounds very sad. And I’m not trying to like demean my students but with all the struggles that are going on with COVID, and the economic problems that so many of them are facing, drug abuse, and mental health. Like, I think the multicultural perspective seems like such a low like it’s something to goal, but we’ve got way more pressing and immediate concerns. I guess. (Nolan) Step one is like, get the kid in their seat, and step two is…we’ll worry about that when we get there… So, you’re very limited in that capacity of how much you can actually get done with the students you have in front of you. So that’s probably the biggest limit to, like, how fast we can move is, you know, cuz some years I have to move faster than others, just depends on the class. (Thomas) While ultimately, student interest and engagement are critical factors impacting student learning (Harackiewicz et al., 2016), there has been an undeniable shift in student engagement in the last three years. Researchers will study the after-effects of the pandemic on education for years to come. However, watching the exodus of educators from the profession clarifies that student apathy has increased (Walker, 2022). In contrast, the ability has decreased to the point that many educators feel their efforts will not have a significant impact (Dorn et al., 2021; Klein, 2021). **Social Studies Content** The most common hindrance shared amongst participants is time. When discussing their lack of time, they most often referred to the depth and length of the social studies content they must cover in a course – as history is ever-expanding. Charles and Thomas noted the value of a survey course to preempt more in-depth content and elective courses. Charles specifically mentioned having seen high school American history spanning a two-year course, which he highly praised. Ellen also commented that a multi-year American history course would be ideal because she struggled to give quality instruction to the period her course requires her to teach: “I’m supposed to cover U.S. history from 1500 to today. So……that’s not happening… that’s just not enough time at all.” This is a common complaint from social studies teachers, and these participants described how they needed to omit material to reach the period of history their course required. Even an elective course in the 1960s that only spans ten years can have such depth that the teacher can struggle, like Steve, for example: Usually, we talk about the space race, but that’s been cut because we just don’t have time. I usually spend two weeks on the counterculture and the protests against the Vietnam War. That’s, that’s been cut. So, it’s- if I had more time, I definitely would be spending more time covering material, the subjects we have, but also the ones that we miss. Charles said he was willing to include more diversity in his curriculum if he was only empowered to do so: Charles: I struggle with that question every single day. And truth be told, there’s not enough time for everything. So, you do have to omit quite a bit. You try your best… Researcher: Do you feel that all of these races *should* be equally represented in social studies? Charles: Yeah, it’d be great! Give me the time. Give me the curriculum; let’s do it! Amina also contemplated the logistics of including more diversity: I don’t think you can equally represent them in American history and still teach the standard like- American history…..Do I think you could do a full-color version of American history? I do think you could. I don’t know if there’s a curriculum out there for it. But you would definitely not be hitting your standards. I just- I don’t see how you could be doing that. But that would be a really interesting elective class. To this last point, the impact of whitewashed social studies is evidenced: American history is commonly known to be white, despite the millions of American-born non-white people who have contributed and resided within the country for hundreds of years. But suppose one wants to learn about the history and contributions of said non-white Americans. In that case, they are better served by taking an elective, re: optional, non-standard course, whereas the history of white Americans is – and always has been – presented as the main narrative in traditional, required U.S. history. **Traditional white Social Studies** It may be tempting for some to argue that American history has not been whitewashed and that the liberal left is trying to erase or replace America’s history with unpatriotic perspectives. However, this study provides evidence that Americans have been taught – if even unintentionally – to consider white people as *the standard* and non-white people as *the other*, thus perpetuating racial strife within the country. Steve, Charles, Ellen, Kenny, and Amina described whitewashed American history as a factor in instructing their students. Steve described having trouble with his Hispanic students not being able to relate to the social studies content: Let’s say…we’re learning about white people in the United States, I’ve had conversations where they [my Hispanic students] just kind of feel like this is just *more of the same*, and they don’t really connect with it because it’s like- ‘not only did it happen in the past, 100 years ago, but like, none of my family members would have even been remotely part of it. Or if they would have been, they wouldn’t have been a voice in it.’ Is this because Hispanics were not residing in or contributing to American history 100 years ago? No. The American history curriculum traditionally focuses on white people and their contributions to the country’s progress. Charles and Ellen also reported their struggle in helping non-white students connect to American history because the curriculum is so focused on white Americans that it may or may not have impacted their students’ lives today. In one very subtle statement in her journal, Amina spoke volumes regarding the whitewashing of American history: ‘I find it hard to put in People of Color [to the curriculum] without keeping it tied to slavery.’ Amina’s difficulty incorporating POC, specifically Black Americans, in American history content other than the traditionally taught events like slavery or Civil Rights revealed that for her, it is not standard to consider Black American history outside of those traditional topics. Because she struggled to include POC without keeping it tied to slavery proves that some Americans have been taught U.S. history with an erroneous perspective that slavery and Civil Rights were the most significant – or maybe only – events involving Black people. **Department and School Complications** A final hindrance of teachers inability to appropriately and fully incorporate multiple racial histories in their curriculum are issues within their respective departments and schools. Most of the teachers interviewed reported that including multiple races in their curriculum may be viewed as problematic in their work environment either due to the levels at which they are required to collaborate with their department, limiting their ability to insert their personal choices in curriculum and content, or issues with racism amongst the staff that convey the level at which their colleagues and employers may be adverse to further diversity inclusion in the content. Collaboration Versus Autonomy Collaboration was cited as a factor in not incorporating more races in their curriculum for several teachers. Because they work with a team of teachers to decide the curriculum, their voice, while valued, is not the only one considered. Ultimately, working together as a team to plan curriculum and courses has been seen as beneficial in multiple regards (Fullan, 2015). However, social studies draws teachers passionate about various issues and aspects of history. Nate noted that for his department, collaboration to create a curriculum is often complicated by varying personalities and opinions, which can be a unique issue in the field of social studies: There, you got the extreme conservative to the extreme liberal. You know, most departments… don’t measure this way. But social studies teachers do… We may disagree as a team, we may disagree on tests and stuff like that, but we can do what we want in our classroom. While Charles reported he does plan autonomously, he has also had experience planning with colleagues. He also was able to articulate the dynamics of having to collaborate with a department and that it can complicate how diverse the curriculum gets to be and how to talk with teachers who are reluctant to imbend more diversity: Perhaps sometimes with our departments, it’s a little difficult because we do have to co-plan, and you have some teachers that are a little, I think, more strict in the content that they want to deliver and have a certain approach that’s a little more inflexible… but I do have co-workers that use the word ‘can’t’ a lot. ‘I can’t do that.’ ‘I can’t teach that.’ And that is, you know, a different thing you have to tackle because that’s something you also see in the students, but you know how adults can be when you talk to them like a student. So, you have to think about switching your minds from teacher-talking-to-student to teacher-talking-to-a-teacher and find the best approach. Teachers like Charles, Thomas, and Kenny, whose curriculum was the most inclusive of multiple races, were also three of the four teachers who reported having complete autonomy in their curriculum planning. While there may be a correlation between teacher curricular freedom and inclusive, multiple-race American history taught at the secondary level, this study is beyond the scope. Racism Amongst Staff While the social studies teachers I interviewed did not report this hindering their teaching, many did comment on how racism within their department or administration seemed to be a factor. For example, Nate described having more students funneled into his class because the other teachers are not able/willing to teach said students: “my classroom’s safe, they can come in, and they know that there’ll be loved and that I won’t judge. So that’s why they funnel kids into my classroom.” Amina reported issues with her principal – who is the same race as her – and the racism against Black students and parents Amina has witnessed: I do not get along with my East Asian principal because she has this- like she- she will never acknowledge it, but if two kids are out of dress code, she’s only going to pick on the Black kids; she will never call out the East Asian kid on dress code. Everybody knows she does that. She doesn’t take parent conferences with a Black parent on her own. But she will with any other parent. Amina also described interactions with her white colleague in her journal, “No one wants to be the token Person of Color. There’s a girl at work who clearly still sees us like that. She’s white and it’s the number one thing that bugs me about her.” Amina described in her interview how her colleague asks for Amina’s input about winter holidays other than Christmas but also decorates teachers’ doors with Christmas decorations, which Amina feels is inappropriate and isolating in a public-school setting. Nolan reported in his journal that while he knows there are some adults in his school that are racist, he also believes this is a fading phenomenon: Pretty much every student I see at my school is very antiracist, and I honestly can’t say in my nine years of teaching here that I’ve seen more than 1 or 2 cases of genuine racism among students - I’ve seen more from staff. This generation doesn’t seem to carry the same notions as the older generation, and it makes me incredibly hopeful for the future. Though Nolan described this amongst the staff in his school, he also describes the racism within the Southern, suburban community he teaches in as a problem. For example, on the day we interviewed, he described a head administrator in his district who had just resigned because of backlash she received for comments she made about systemic racism existing in their district: But she admitted the systemic racism was a problem in all schools in the district, and she made a diversity, equality kind of group. She really wanted to engage on that topic with the community; that was really her big legacy, actually, was trying to combat that. But I think that, along with the mask mandates and the fact that some board members have resigned, but I know she was receiving like death threats on her lawn. And just the absolute insanity of it all...that boggles my mind. So, it’s a raging political issue, as it is all over the country. While her resignation may not have directly hindered Nolan from including multiple racial groups in his curriculum, her impact on the district’s approach to systemic racism and equality will no longer exist. The very act of her sudden resignation and its subsequent news story sent a message of what the community would and would not tolerate. **Summary of Findings 3** This chapter describes the data findings that explain the gap between teachers’ racial optics and their pedagogical practice. Through the data analysis process, I discovered that while 78% of teachers’ racial optics are reflected in their curriculum – whether intentionally included or not – teachers still have difficulty implementing multiple (re: three or more) racial groupings within their curriculum. This is for a variety of reasons, but the main explanations discovered are the limited time to teach unlimited content, the fear of racial inclusion being misinterpreted by parents or administration, and the overall sense of apathy from students and exhaustion from teachers after three years of COVID-19 stress within America’s schools. In the closing chapter, I will explore the implications of the study’s findings on the field and discuss the role social studies classrooms have in perpetuating racism by unintentionally continuing to centralize the white narrative in American history, as well as explore viable options to combat this racism epidemic within one generation. I will also outline the overall limitations of my study and make future recommendations for how a researcher could expand on this study’s foundations. CHAPTER 7 INSIGHTS FROM THE STUDY In Chapter 1, I introduced the current problems with secondary social studies education and its connections to racism issues permeating American society. In Chapter 2, I presented research on the background of social studies education within the United States and described how it has intrinsically been and continues to be whitewashed. Based on a theoretical framework of critical whiteness theory, I posited that should educators critically examine their racial optics, they would be better positioned to present a more diversified narrative of America’s history. In Chapter 3, I outlined the qualitative methodology for this study and described the various methods by which I collected and analyzed data. Chapters 4, 5, and 6 each described a wealth of information on the three main results I found in the data - how social studies teachers themselves learned about race in America’s history, the development of teachers’ racial optics, and the gap between the teachers’ perceptions of race and their social studies curricular choices. In this chapter, I conclude the investigation by describing the insights from the research, discussing the implications, and making recommendations to the social studies field for changes and how it can contribute to moving the United States into a collective, full-color view of America’s multiple (re: poly) racial narrative. Summary Since the establishment of the United States public education system, the social studies curriculum (history, geography, etc..) has highlighted the accomplishments, heroism, and contributions of white Americans (Hughes, 2021). As the field developed and outlined specific courses for social studies during the 20th century, secondary United States History continued to focus on white Americans as the primary population contributing to the country’s success, often ignoring Black, Indigenous, and People of Color (Conwright, 2021; Hughes, 2021). This whitewashing of American history normalized and standardized white people while simultaneously marginalizing or erasing the contributions of People of Color. I posit this has vastly contributed to the ‘othering’ of BIPOC and developing an erroneous and incomplete picture of America where students have learned that BIPOC has not positively shaped the country’s establishment and subsequent success. Additionally, in the mid-20th century, when de facto discriminatory practices prevented People of Color from advancing as educators, administrators, and politicians, the field of education was guaranteed a majority white population (Gladwell, 2021; Kendi, 2019). This may have ensured that educators – having been taught an established whitewashed version of American history – would have been conditioned to hold a white-standardized version of the country’s narrative. Consequently, this would affect how they presented American history to their students, thereby perpetuating this false narrative generation after generation, intentional or unintentional. Of course, this scenario would have been applied to Teachers of Color if they had been educated by white teachers, which is likely the case. With this in mind, I conceptualized this study: teachers need to analyze their educations and how they learned about America’s history – critically examining if the version of history presented to them was whitewashed. They also need to critically assess their racial optics, which have resulted partially from how they learned about race and racial conflict in American history and partially from their upbringing and experiences. This will determine if they are also (unintentionally) perpetuating white social studies to the detriment of their student’s learning. I deduce that an intentional introspective reflection of how teachers view their race and other races and how that intersects with their curricular choices is the only hope for eradicating white social studies. With an increased call to acknowledge diversity in the social studies curriculum in the late 20th century (Banks, 1987; 1991; Ladson-Billings, 1995), the NCSS, states, and national recommendations have significantly revised social studies standards. Regardless, BIPOC’s presence in America’s narrative has increasingly become a focal point for the field of social studies, and there has been progress to normalize BIPOC in American history courses (Au, 2020; King, 2017). That is until the recent backlash against critical race theory has misguided legislators to pass mandates in seventeen states that restrict social studies teachers’ ability to discuss race and racism in America’s history (Schwartz, 2022). Therefore, it is even more vital that educators examine their curricular choices and racial optics to be knowledgeable and systematically incorporate a fuller and more accurate picture of America’s history, despite legislation protecting white social studies. **Limitations** This study’s limitation is the use of various racial lens scales given to the teachers during their journaling. After reviewing dozens of scales utilized in previous studies and widely shared, I selected the three that I found the most compelling (Appendices A, B, and C). However, these scales are not scientifically validated and result from the research and insight of various scholars over time. It would have been ideal for teachers to review racial lens scales that accurately depict the varying aspects of how one views race. However, no single, conclusive scale exists that is scientifically tested and validated. There is extensive research on various types of scales that measure degrees of racism (Henry & Sears, 2002; Neville et al., 2000), levels of whiteness (Helms and Carter, 1990; Knowles & Peng, 2005; Miller, 2017), and beliefs regarding white privilege (Hays et al., 2007). Still, Schooley et al. (2019) articulated the need for more whiteness measurements to be developed, while Worrell et al. (2017) recommended their study introducing a new tool for measuring racial identity to be replicated with larger sample sizes in the varying non-white race subgroupings. **Discussion** I have identified two significant implications from this research that explores how secondary social studies teachers learned about race and how their racial optics may or may not be reflected in their curricular choices. The first implication of the results is that students in the United States receive an extremely watered-down and highly edited version of American history because of the variety of issues and constraints placed on teachers. The second implication of the results is that American history curriculum and standards do not require teachers to present an equitable nor accurate portrayal of BIPOC but continues to allow for the traditional whitewashing of America’s narrative, despite efforts to incorporate terms such as *multicultural* and *diversity*. **Implication 1: Derisory Secondary American History Courses** Coupled with the incomplete picture of teaching America’s narrative due to whitewashing is a vast amount of material teachers work to cover when teaching in the standard nine-month period for a secondary course. Because American history courses cover such an expanse of content, let alone incorporate varying perspectives and teach content knowledge skills, teachers are often unable to cover the entirety of their planned content because there is too much material. This results in a further watered-down and limited presentation of American history, let alone world history. Understanding the context of current issues is an essential part of becoming an active participant in society (NCSS, 2010). One of the main implications of this study is that secondary teachers are set up to fail when delivering pertinent content, particularly regarding race history and racism issues that have and continue to permeate American society. Teachers in this study identified three roadblocks in their respective situations that prevent them from teaching how and what their students most want and need to learn: time constraints, student apathy, and the government as gatekeepers of education. **Time Constraints.** The current model for secondary education in United States social studies typically includes a course in world history and a course in U.S. history at the sixth through the eighth-grade level and again at the ninth through the twelfth-grade level. There is also usually a third year of social studies offered both at the middle school and high school levels, determined by state and district, and includes other social studies content areas such as geography, political science, psychology, sociology, economics, or a course in non-white history such as African American studies. Some districts and states require a fourth year of social studies, but most only offer this as an option. Other states and districts allow for U.S. history and/or world history to be taken over two years. Given that teachers are expected to cover the United States’ 400+ year history in a single year, let alone the entirety of the human experience in a single course of world history (sometimes but not always divided into two sections), teachers have reported much of their content is severely edited. Some even eliminated to cover the expanse of information. Thus, exploring and analyzing race history or even the history of varying racial groups within the United States is virtually impossible, despite their training or desire to do so. Teachers in the study repeatedly reported that they did not have enough time in their day – or over the year – to address race to the extent they knew their students needed and would benefit. Suppose teachers cannot address topics such as racism or incorporate multiple racial groups in the way they factually existed in American history. In that case, there is certainly cause for concern that other essential topics such as gender, LGBTQ+, economic inequality, and more are similarly being overlooked and severely edited if addressed at all. **Apathy.** Teachers in this study also reported that their students often prevent them from going in-depth into content or adding to the existing curriculum because the students have become apathetic since the COVID-19 pandemic. Most teachers reported having difficulty keeping students interested in the lessons or their grades and struggled to find topics on which they could spark student interest. These teachers identified this as a newer phenomenon, even more dire than typical pre- and teenage student apathy, since returning to full-time, in-person learning post-pandemic. They attribute this to a) the learning loss experienced by secondary students over the last three years and b) the lax nature of grading and accountability in schools because of the scramble to develop content, balance mental health, and handle COVID-related loss and illness. Teachers reported that because of these two unique features shared by students across the country over the last three years, they have difficulty engaging students in their learning and progress and therefore focus more on creating dynamic lessons rather than widening the breadth of their racial integration in the content. **Government as Gatekeepers.** “Since January 2021, 42 states have introduced bills or taken other steps that would restrict teaching critical race theory or limit how teachers can discuss racism and sexism\(^{20}\)…Seventeen states have imposed these bans and restrictions either \(^{20}\) As of August 2022, states without any action or bill regarding CRT include California, Connecticut, Delaware, Hawaii, Massachusetts, Nevada, Oregon, Vermont, as well as D.C., and Puerto Rico through legislation or other avenues\textsuperscript{21},” (Schwartz, 2022, para. 4). While teachers in this study reported they do not use the phrasing “critical race theory” in their classroom (most were unaware of its definition), it has become a phrase that has had many erroneous meanings attributed to it, causing unnecessary panic amongst parents and school boards, prompting state legislators to write bills banning its use in public schools, even at the collegiate level (Arrojas, 2022). Regardless of what a teacher knows or does not know about CRT, they now must use an abundance of caution when presenting racial history topics so they do not violate the laws. States have left their bills ambiguous regarding precisely what cannot be discussed and, if it is, the way it may be presented. However, teachers have stated in this study that they fear being reported, recorded, or removed from the classroom if they discuss historical facts and events centered around racism. Virginia Governor Youngkin recently instituted an anonymous tip line wherein parents, students, or community members can call to report a teacher who may be discussing race and gender history in their classes (NBC12 Newsroom, 2022). Because the government has now taken on the role of gatekeeping social studies content, teachers are left confused and unsure of what they are allowed to teach about, what they cannot say, and how to go about teaching America’s history without talking about laws and actions that have shaped the country - such as the 13th and 15th amendments, the Chinese Exclusion Act, Jim Crow, and redlining, as they are now considered to be history that reflects CRT. \textsuperscript{21} As of August 2022, the states that passed legislation against CRT are Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Idaho, Iowa, Kentucky, Mississippi, Montana, New Hampshire, North Dakota, Oklahoma, South Carolina, South Dakota, Tennessee, Texas, Utah, and Virginia Implication 2: America’s Narrative is Polyracial While U.S. history has and continues to normalize white Americans often, some states have included BIPOC in content by adding words like multicultural, ethnicity, or even just diversity to their standards and course titles. However, these terms are either misleading or inaccurate, which may be why whitewashing continues to be an unintentional result for some teachers: they are not being required to think explicitly and systematically about which racial groups they are or are not including. For example, multicultural refers to various (meaning more than two) cultures. This differs from various races, as culture and race are alike but not exchangeable. Even the word multiracial implies one person of multiple races, just as biracial means one person of two races. I posit that the term polyracial social studies or polyracial history reflects a course that presents the collective experiences and perceptions of multiple, if not all, racial groupings. If the field is interested in America’s narrative truly reflecting the contributions and history of all the racial groups who have built and resided in the country, then American history courses need a specific word for the equitable and intentional inclusion of multiple race groups in social studies. While the wording may seem trite, it is vital that the field accurately and explicitly identifies the learning goals it wants growing citizens and residents to be taught, which begins with accurate and specific wording. Polyracial Social Studies. The United States government recognizes five main race groups - African/African-American/Black, Asian, Indigenous (including Native Americans and Alaska), Pacific-Islander/Hawaiian, and white (U.S. Census Bureau, 2022). Arguably, technology and progress have blurred the lines between races (Chou, 2017), as has the discovery and widely agreed-upon notion within the scientific community that race is not based on genetics or biology (Gannon, 2016). Chou (2017) notes that the public remains unconvinced that race is merely a social construct, as some celebrate their racial identity proudly as their blood ancestry and lineage. Others note that the offspring of two people of the same race will result in a child of the same race rather than a random race, indicating biology is indeed a component of race. Regardless of if a race is biological, Chou goes on, it is undoubtedly a social and political concept, which is the main point when considering how it should be addressed and woven throughout the American history curriculum. America always has and continues to define race as associated with one’s skin color, ancestry, and ethnicity. Because laws based on race have systematically and steadily prevented non-white people from the same privileges as white people (re: Slavery, Chinese Exclusion Act, etc..), entire racial groups have generally been excluded from the acknowledgment of their existence and contributions to the United States unless it pertained in some way to white people. Therefore, teachers, teacher educators, curriculum writers, and lawmakers must intentionally and specifically revise America’s history, which I argue is most efficient and effective if done in the social studies classroom. The story that should be told of a country is the story that took place – not pieces of it based on one’s skin color, physical ability, gender (identity), citizenship/economic/immigration status, ethnicity, etc. History remains reliable if it is accurate, and accurate history is not written by the winners but by anyone attending the proverbial battle – the winners, the losers, the innocent bystanders, and all groups who have participated, observed, or been effected by any given historical event. **Recommendations** I recommend several changes to reconceptualize how to systematically and intentionally develop a U.S. history curriculum that accurately and fully presents America’s narrative from each racial group’s angle. These recommendations can be taken independently of one another or combined with others for a more effective and prompt response to the ongoing racial issues plaguing the country. **Independent Educator Changes** Central to this study and my self-inventory of my racial optics was the review of literature, media, and racial optics scales. By reviewing the racial optics scales independently or in a professional development/educational setting, I addressed difficult questions that I had never known to ask myself. Most participants reported the same. Reviewing these scales, evaluating oneself, and stepping back to look objectively and candidly at one’s thoughts, behaviors and experiences can be sobering when done with intention. I, along with most of the participants, also experienced this self-reflective process while listening to podcasts, watching movies, or reading books by People of Color to immerse myself in their experiences, perceptions, and to learn from them. Regardless of how woke one becomes during this process, I argue it would be challenging to undergo such introspection with sincerity and not have it result in some level of self-analysis and racial consciousness. Perhaps there is still work to be done. However, being aware of that work is probably the most challenging part. **Departmental Changes** Secondary social studies teachers are often encouraged to collaborate and plan as a department. I recommend that departments intentionally explore how to implement polyracial curricula and materials in their units. Every unit should incorporate stories, events, and histories of at least three non-white racial groups. While often U.S. history courses already include white and Black history, it would be incredibly transformative to highlight the Native Americans during the Civil War or learn about Asian Americans’ contributions during the Industrial Revolution. *Every unit* should include multiple (re: poly) racial groups because numerous racial groups have existed in the United States since before its foundations. Intentionally instructing students not just about Black and white people during the Civil Rights Movement but also Asian Americans, Indigenous, and Latine ethnic groups would allow students to see that all non-white groups had similar struggles and powerful stories worth being told. Internet access makes researching these untold stories more accessible. **School and District Changes** A natural educator response to the last two recommendations would be regarding the lack of time given to teachers to plan and implement this extra information. While time in the classroom varies from school to school and can change based on any given day or teacher, professional development is one commonality amongst all educators in the United States. Unfortunately, teachers often find this valuable training time inapplicable (Gulamhussein, 2013; Strauss, 2014). However, should each school allow their social studies departments to develop these curricular resources and collaboratively dive into previously unexplored historical events, the benefits to students’ abilities to see the United States through a positive, unifying polyracial lens will only strengthen, thus normalizing People of All Colors in their understanding of American history. Additionally, it would be valuable for educators to implement polyracial social studies into their curriculum by adding professional development with prepared resources centering on People of Color that are ready for teachers to use. Other professional developments could open conversations about implicit bias and help teachers learn to navigate difficult history and controversial discussions in their classrooms. **Higher Educational Changes** To start affecting powerful, lasting change, it is the responsibility of teacher educators – particularly in social studies, but arguably in any discipline – to begin helping students learn to identify their racial optics and expose them to the necessity and benefit of polyracial course content. Each methods course needs to spend time guiding pre-service teachers to become adept at incorporating three or more non-white racial groups, resources, events, and histories into every unit they plan. This same knowledge would also ingrain in pre-service teachers the ability to incorporate other non-traditionally acknowledged marginalized groups into their units. Colleges of Education should work with their university’s office that focuses on equity and diversity to ensure required teacher education courses include a curriculum that guides future teachers through examining their own implicit bias and the systemic policies and institutions that have created and contributed to BIPOC’s inequality. For example, the University of Wisconsin-Madison recently increased the school’s ethnic studies requirement from 3 to 6 credits, which will go into effect for the class of 2026 (Schneider, 2021). Another recommendation is to require pre-service social studies teachers to take half or most coursework focused on non-white history and equitable teaching methods. **Legislative Changes** Teachers, departments, and districts all work under their respective state boards of education, so to think that the changes I mentioned earlier can effectively be implemented without legislative action is unrealistic. Therefore, I first call upon the NCSS to incorporate specific and intentional language in their learning standards that reflect the inclusion of multiple (re: three or more) non-white racial groups in every unit of American history, to make it clear to states and social studies professionals the value of normalizing People of Color throughout every stage of America’s narrative. While the NCSS is not responsible for the state standards, it is the NCSS’s standards many states use as guidance when developing their own. Therefore, such a change would be impactful. I also call on the boards of education in each state to incorporate polyracial social studies as a requirement for secondary American history courses. Should teachers be required and empowered to normalize polyracial American history, the impact on the state’s youth will profoundly reposition their racial optics to normalize others not like themselves potentially within one generation. For example, in Maryland, a bill was recently proposed that would require the local boards of education to develop a curriculum based on the new state standards, meaning the history would need to include multiple groups by the start of the 2023-2024 school year, to include African Americans, Indigenous, Asian American, Pacific Islanders and Hispanic Americans (Wilson, 2021). Additionally, California’s Governor Newsom (2021) signed a bill requiring all public high school students to take an ethnic studies course to graduate. Further, I recommend legislation that subsidizes teacher education bachelor’s, master’s, and doctoral programs specifically for People of Color. With the current low percentages of Teachers of Color in the field due to systematic oppression, this would help address the increasing population of POC in the United States (Geiger, 2018), coupled with the data that shows Students of Color thrive with teachers that share their race (Motamedi, 2019). It would also normalize Teachers of Color for white students, which only stands to improve the racial optics of America’s future adults. **Future Research** I also offer the field my recommendations for future research and strongly encourage social studies experts to repeat this study examining secondary social studies teachers’ racial optics and its effects on their curricular decisions. My suggested demographics with which to repeat the study are specifically on Teachers of Color, teachers in varying regions of the United States (including the Northwest, West, and Southwest, as well as a comparison of mountain/urban/suburban/rural areas), and also a study that accounts for generational variations to see if there are stark differences between age groupings. I also encourage field experts to continue to evaluate racial lens scales and potentially develop a scientifically-tested racial optics lens assessment. A further refinement, critique, and testing of the existing scales will help all people – not just social studies educators – to critically examine their racial optics and open the door to their ability to empathize with people outside of their race. **Conclusion** Ultimately, white social studies is what American history education has been since its establishment in the 18th century. Keeping in mind that social studies education was always purposed to develop and educate the future leaders and participants of America’s democracy, the tradition of centering white America in the classroom has translated into a normalization of whiteness that is now considered to be breaking down the very democracy it intended to strengthen; thus, radical change is necessary. While *multiculturalism* has misleadingly become synonymous with racial diversity, it is the language used in many learning standards. Social studies must be thrust into a 21st and even 22nd-century mentality of polyracial education, intentionally incorporating many racial groups into the narrative to counteract the white normalization that has prevailed for the last 400+ years of American history. The U.S. Census Bureau projects that as early as 2044, white people will no longer be the collective majority of the United States population, but rather, the majority of the population will be comprised of People of Color (U.S. Census Bureau, 2017). The ‘minority white’ (Frey, 2018), which will be seen within the next generation, will undoubtedly shift America’s narrative dramatically and profoundly. It is the responsibility of the social studies field to prepare students for that unprecedented shift and begin to change the mentality of all residents to accept a country in which *whiteness* does not equal *standard*. If white social studies is the problem, polyracial social studies is the solution. Should America want to be a nation of productive and peaceful people, it would make sense that it needs to teach its citizens to be such. Whether human nature and notions of societal good are intrinsic or learned (Urban & Wagoner, 2014), due to the wide variety of cultural variations in the United States, a uniform standard must be taught so that a common baseline is established by which people can grow together. The existing baseline of the Constitution offers ideologies but lacks methodology. However, it is what we have in common and, therefore, the single unifying factor that Americans of all genders, colors, creeds, classes, and identities can use. This work is far from simple – it is analytical, it is critical, it is intentional, and it is systematic. However, public education is the single common denominator of up-and-coming leaders and participants in American society, and social studies is the most appropriate field for this learning. Therefore, this work essentially needs to be accomplished in the social studies classroom. Moreover, its widespread accessibility to the public and students of all racial, socio-economic backgrounds, and geographic locations makes it the ideal medium to create impactful and dynamic progress and shift America from a society of racism to an equitable polyracial community. References Agar, M. (1986). *Speaking of ethnography*. SAGE Publications. Aggarwal-Schifellite, M. (2020, August 27). Crowd-sourcing the story of a people. *The Harvard Gazette*. https://news.harvard.edu/gazette/story/2020/08/how-public-history-can-reshape-our-views-of-the-past/ Allen, T. (2012a). *The invention of the white race* (Vol. 1). Verso. Allen, T. (2012b). *The invention of the white race* (Vol. 2). Verso. Alongi, M. D., Heddy, B. C., & Sinatra, G. M. (2016). Real-world engagement with controversial issues in history and social studies: Teaching for transformative experiences and conceptual change. *Journal of Social Science Education, 15*(2), 26–41. https://doi.org/10.4119/UNIBI/jssse-v15-i2-147 Alvesson, M. (2003). Beyond neopositivists, romantics, and localists: A reflexive approach to interviews in organizational research. *The Academy of Management, 28*(1), 13-33. https://doi.org/10.2307/30040687 An, S. (2020). Learning racial literacy while navigating white social studies. *The Social Studies, 111*(4), 174–181. https://doi.org/10.1080/00377996.2020.1718584 Anderson, T. C. (2020). Academics, achievement gap, and nutritional health: The impact of coronavirus on education. *Delta Kappa Gamma Bulletin, 87*(1), 14–17. https://pesquisa.bvsalud.org/global-literature-on-novel-coronavirus-2019-ncov/resource/en/covidwho-907638 Animus, I. (2015). *Why “ally” is a verb, not a noun. For trans affirming therapists*. Dara Hoffman-Fox. https://darahoffmanfox.com/why-ally-is-verb-not-a-noun/ Appiah, K. A. (2020, June 18). *The case for capitalizing the ‘B’ in Black*. The Atlantic. https://www.theatlantic.com/ideas/archive/2020/06/time-to-capitalize-blackand-white/613159/ Applebaum, B. (2010). *Being white, being good: White complicity, white moral responsibility, and social justice pedagogy*. Lexington Books. Applebaum, B. (2016). Critical whiteness studies. In *Oxford research encyclopedia of education*. https://doi.org/10.1093/acrefore/9780190264093.013.5 Arizona Department of Education. (2020, September 2). *Articles on race, diversity and inclusion*. https://www.azed.gov/improvement/articles-on-race-diversity-and-inclusion Arkin, D. (2019). ‘*Watchmen’ recreates the 1921 Tulsa race massacre, exposing viewers to an ugly chapter*. NBC. https://www.nbcnews.com/pop-culture/tv/watchmen-recreates-tulsa-massacre-1921-exposing-viewers-ugly-chapter-n1069426 Arrojas, M. (2022). *New state laws target critical race theory in higher ed*. Best Colleges. https://www.bestcolleges.com/news/2022/04/15/state-laws-critical-race-theory-higher-education/ Au, W. (2020, November 25). *California vetoed ethnic studies requirements for public high school students, but the movement grows*. The Conversation. https://theconversation.com/%0ocalifornia-vetoed-ethnic-studies-requirements-for-public-high-school-students-but-the-movement-grows-148486 Babb, V. (1998). *Whiteness visible: The meaning of whiteness in American literature and culture*. New York University Press. Baldwin, J. (1963). *The fire next time*. Michael Joseph LTD. Banks, J. A. (1995a). Multicultural education: Historical development, dimensions, and practice. In J. A. Banks & C. A. M. Banks (Eds.). *Handbook of research on multicultural education* (pp. 3-24). Macmillan. Banks, J. A. (1995b). Multicultural education: Its effects on students' racial and gender role attitudes. In J. A. Banks & C. A. M. Banks (Eds.). *Handbook of research on multicultural education* (pp. 617-627). Macmillan. Banks, J. A. (Ed.) (1996). *Multicultural education, transformative knowledge and action*. Teachers College Press. Banks, J.A. (1987). The social studies, ethnic diversity, and social change. *The Elementary School Journal, 87*(5), 31-543. https://www.jstor.org/stable/1001430 Banks, J.A. (1991). A curriculum for empowerment, action, and change. In C.E. Sleeter. (Ed.). *Empowerment through multicultural education* (pp. 125-142). SUNY Press. Banks, J.A. (1999). *An introduction to multicultural education* (2nd ed.). Allyn and Bacon. Banks, K. (Host). (2019, April 19). *Understanding “white kids” with Maggie Hagerman [Podcast]*. Raising Equity. https://raisingequity.org/episode/understanding-white-kids-with-maggie-hagerman/ Barton, K., & Levstik, L. (2004). *Teaching history for the common good*. Lawrence Erlbaum Associates. Beauchamp, C., & Thomas, L. (2009). Understanding teacher identity: An overview of issues in the literature and implications for teacher education, *Cambridge Journal of Education, 39*(2), 175–189. https://doi.org/10.1080/03057640902902252 Behar-Horenstein, L., Pajares, F., & George, P. (1996). The effect of teachers’ beliefs on students’ academic performance during curriculum innovation. *The High School Journal, 79*(4), 324–332. https://www.researchgate.net/publication/258510464_The_Effect_of_Teachers_J_Beliefs_on_Students%27_Academic_Performance_During_Curriculum_Innovation Beijaard, D., Meijer, P. C., & Verloop, N. (2004). Reconsidering research on teachers’ professional identity. *Teaching and Teacher Education, 20*(2), 107–128. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.tate.2003.07.001 Bell, D. (1987). *And we are not saved: The elusive quest for racial justice*. Basic Books. Bell, D. (1988). *White superiority in America: Its legal legacy, its economic costs*. Villanova University: Charles Widger School of Law. https://digitalcommons.law.villanova.edu/vlr/vol3/iss5/2?utm_source=digitalcommons.law.villanova.edu%2Fvlr%2Fvol3%2Fiss5%2F2&utm_medium=PDF&utm_campaign=PDFCoverPages Bell, L. (2002). Sincere fictions: The pedagogical challenges of preparing white teachers for multicultural classrooms. *Equity & Excellence in Education*. https://doi.org/10.1080/713845317 Berger, M. (1999). *White lies: Race and the myths of whiteness*. Macmillan. Bhandaru, D. (2013). Is white normativity racist? Michel Foucault and post-civil-rights racism. *Polity, 45*(2), 223–244. https://www.journals.uchicago.edu/doi/abs/10.1057/pol.2013.6?journalCode=pol Bonham, V. (n.d.). *Race*. National Human Genome Research Institute. https://www.genome.gov/genetics-glossary/Race Boostrom, R. (2010). Hidden curriculum. In C. Kridel (Ed.), *Encyclopedia of curriculum studies* (pp. 440-440). SAGE Publications Ltd. Bosse, M., & Torner, G. (2015). Teacher identity as a theoretical framework for research out-of-field teaching mathematics teachers. *Views and Beliefs in Mathematics Education*. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-658-09614-4_1 Bouie, J. (2014, May). *Why do millennials not understand racism?* Slate. https://slate.com/news-and-politics/2014/05/millennials-racism-and-inty-poll-young-people-are-confused-about-bias-prejudice-and-racism.html Boyce, P. (2019). The teacher shortage is real and about to get much worse: Here’s why. *Foundation for Economic Education*. https://fee.org/articles/the-teacher-shortage-is-real-and-about-to-get-much-worse-heres-why Brown, E. R. (2006). The place of race in teacher identity: Self-narratives and curricular intervention as a practice of freedom. *Teacher Education and Practice, 19*(2), 257–279. https://eric.ed.gov/?id=EJ793788 Brown, K. (2022, July 8). *North Dakota Indian education summer to help add tribes’ history into school curriculum*. KX News. https://www.kxnet.com/news/top-stories/north-dakota-indian-education-summit-to-help-add-tribes-history-into-school-curriculum/ Browne, J. R., II. (2012). *Walking the equity talk: A guide for culturally courageous leadership in school communities*. Corwin Press. https://doi.org/10.4135/9781452275468 Buchanan-Rivera, E. (2019). Identity-affirming schools need race-conscious educators. *Making Schools Safe, 15*(4). ASCD. http://www.ascd.org/ascd-express/vol15/num04/identity-affirming-schools-need-race-conscious-educators.aspx Byker, E. (2019). Study abroad as social and emotional learning: Framing international teaching with critical cosmopolitan theory. *Journal of Research in Innovative Teaching & Learning, 12*(2), 183–194. https://doi.org/10.1108/JRIT-02-2019-0023 California State Department of Education. (1964). *The Negro in American history textbooks: A report of a study of the treatment of Negroes in American history textbooks used in Grades five and eight and in the high schools of California’s public schools*. University of California. Callahan, C., & Hubbard, J. (2019). Protest and prayer: The Jewish and catholic presence at Selma. *Social Studies Research and Practice, 14*(2), 238–254. https://doi.org/10.1108/SSRP-02-2019-0008 Campos, A. (2021, October 6). *What’s the difference between Hispanic, Latino, and Latinx?* University of California. https://www.universityofcalifornia.edu/news/choosing-the-right-word-hispanic-latino-and-latinx Carter, D. J. (2005). “In a sea of white people”: An analysis of the experiences and behaviors of high-achieving Black students in a predominantly white high school (Publication No. 3176328) [Doctoral dissertation, Harvard University]. ProQuest Dissertations and Theses Global. https://www.proquest.com/openview/29e6e93a0ad067005d55905c67c233e4/1?pq-origsite=gscholar&cbl=18750&diss=y Carter, D. J. (2008). Cultivating a critical race consciousness for African American school success. *Educational Foundations, 22*(1–2), 11–28. https://files.eric.ed.gov/fulltext/EJ839495.pdf Center for Multicultural Education (2022). *Multicultural education: goals and dimensions*. College of Education: University of Washington. https://education.uw.edu/cme/view Center for the Study of Social Policy. (n.d.). *Using an anti-racist intersectional frame at CSSP*. https://cssp.org/wp-content/uploads/2019/09/Anti-racist-Frame-12.10.19.pdf Chambers, J. (2019, June 11). *State Board oks social studies standards after heated debate*. Detroit News. https://www.detroitnews.com/story/news/education/2019/06/11/state-board-vote-controversial-social-studies-revisions/1405079001/ Chandler, P. T. (2009). Blinded by the white: Social studies and raceless pedagogies. *The Journal of Educational Thought, 43*(3), 259–288. https://www.jstor.org/stable/23765480 Chandler, P. T. (Ed.). (2015). *Doing race in social studies: Critical perspectives*. Information Age. Chandler, P. T., & Branscombe, A. (2015). White social studies. In P. T. Chandler (Ed.), *Doing race in social studies: Critical perspectives* (pp. 61–87). Information Age. Cheung, R., Flores, C., & Sablo-Sutton, S. (2019). Tipping the balance: Social justice leaders allying with marginalized youth to increase student voice and activism. *Educational Leadership and Administration, 30*, 1–13. http://files.eric.ed.gov/fulltext/EJ1206784.pdf Chiang, I-C.A., Jhangiani, R.S., and Price, P.C. (2015). *Research methods in psychology* (2nd Canadian ed.). BCCampus. https://opentextbc.ca/researchmethods/front-matter/dedication/ Chou, V. (2017). *How science and genetics are reshaping the race debate of the 21st century*. Science in the News: Harvard University. https://sitn.hms.harvard.edu/flash/2017/science-genetics-reshaping-race-debate-21st-century/ Citrin, J., Levy, M., & Van Houweling, R. P. (2014). Americans fill out President Obama’s census form: What is his race? *Social Science Quarterly, 95*(4), 1121–1136. https://doi.org/10.1111/ssqu.12105 Clark, C. H., Schmeichel, M., & Garrett, H. J. (2020). Social studies teacher perceptions of news source credibility. *Educational Researcher, 49*(4), 262–272. https://doi.org/10.3102/0013189X20909823 Cochran-Smith, M., Piazza, P., & Power, C. (2013). The politics of accountability: Assessing teacher education in the United States. *The Educational Forum, 77*(1), 6–27. http://doi.org/10.1080/00131725.2013.739015 Colley, L.M. & Broome, J. (2020). Decentering whiteness in women’s history. In A. Hawkman & S. Shear (Eds.), *Marking the Invisible: Articulating Whiteness in Social Studies Education*. Information Age Publishing. Collins, C. (2018). What is white privilege, really? *Teaching Tolerance, 60*. https://www.tolerance.org/magazine/fall-2018/what-is-white-privilege-really Committee on Youth Education for Citizenship. (1980). How state mandates affect curriculum. *Educational Leadership, 334–336*. http://www.ascd.org/ASCD/pdf/journals/ed_lead/el_198001_committee.pdf Conwright, A. (2021, July 29). *American education is founded on white race theory*. The New Republic. https://newrepublic.com/article/163093/critical-race-theory-history-white-american-education Council for the Accreditation of Educator Preparation. (n.d.). *SPA standards and report forms*. http://caepnet.org/accreditation/caep-accreditation/spa-standards-and-report-forms Crenshaw, K., Gotanda, N., Peller, G., & Thomas, K. (Eds.). (1995). *Critical race theory: The key writings that formed the movement*. Free Press. Crenshaw, K.W. (1988). *Race, reform, and retrenchment: Transformation and legitimation in antidiscrimination law*. Harvard Law Review, 1331-1387. https://doi.org/10.2307/1341398 Crowley, R. M., & Smith, W. (2015). Whiteness and social studies teacher education: Tensions in the pedagogical task. *Teaching Education, 26*(2), 160–178. https://doi.org/10.1080/10476210.2014.996739 Cuenca, A. (2017). Preparing teaching for a new generation of social studies learners: Introducing the national standards for the preparation of social studies teachers. *Social Education, 81*(6), 370–375. https://www.socialstudies.org/user/login?destination=/node/10598 Da Silva, C. (2020, September 7). *U.S. schools have openly taught The 1619 Project for months*. Newsweek. https://www.newsweek.com/u-s-schools-have-openly-taught-1619-project-months-1530138 Darling-Hammond, L. (2006). Constructing 21st-century teacher education. *Journal of Teacher Education, 57*(3). 300–314. http://doi.org/10.1177/0022487105285962 Darling-Hammond, L. (2017). Teacher education around the world: What can we learn from international practice? *European Journal of Teacher Education, 40*(3), 291-309. http://doi.org/10.1080/02519768.2017.1315399 Dawson, M. C., & Bobo, L. D. (2009). One year later and the myth of a post-racial society. *Du Bois Review: Social Science Research on Race*, 6(2), 247–249. https://doi.org/10.1017/S1742058X09990282 De Witt, A. (2016, June 28). Understanding our polarized political landscape requires a long, deep look at our worldviews. *Scientific American*. https://blogs.scientificamerican.com/guest-blog/understanding-our-polarized-political-landscape-requires-a-long-deep-look-at-our-worldviews/ Dee, T. S. (2005). A teacher like me: Does race, ethnicity, or gender matter? *The American Economic Review*, 95(2), 158–165. https://doi.org/10.1257/000282805774670446 Delpit, L. (1995). *Other people’s children: Cultural conflict in the classroom*. The New Press. https://eric.ed.gov/?id=ED387274 DeMarrais, K. B. (2004). Qualitative interview studies: Learning through experience. In K. B. deMarrais & S. D. Lapan (Eds.), *Foundations for research methods of inquiry in education and the social sciences* (pp. 51–68). Routledge. https://www.taylorfrancis.com/chapters/edit/10.4324/9781410609373-8/qualitative-interview-studies-learning-experience Demnowicz, C. (2017). *Racism scale*. Stuart Center for Mission, Educational Leadership & Technology. https://stuartcenter.org/resource/racism-scale Desilets, M., (2021). *Culturally responsive & inclusive curriculum resources: Creating culturally responsive curriculum*. Portland State University Library – LibGuides. https://guides.library.pdx.edu/c.php?q=527355&p=3605354 Dewey, J. (2011). *Democracy and education*. Simon & Brown. (Original work published 1916). DiAngelo, R. J. (2018). *White fragility: Why it’s so hard for white people to talk about racism*. Beacon Press. Dorn, E., Hancock, B., Sarakatsannis, J., & Viruleg, E. (2021, July 27). *COVID-19 and education: The lingering effects of unfinished learning*. McKinsey & Company. https://www.mckinsey.com/industries/education/our-insights/covid-19-and-education-the-lingering-effects-of-unfinished-learning Du Bois, W. E. B. (1897). *The conservation of races*. Fordham University Press. https://doi.org/10.1515/9780823254576-003 Du Bois, W. E. B. (1920). The soul of White folks. In *Darkwater: Voices from within the veil* (pp. 29–51). Harcourt, Brace and Howe. https://www.versobooks.com/blogs/4770-the-souls-of-white-folk Du Bois, W. E. B. (1935). *Black reconstruction: An essay toward a history of the part which Black folk played in the attempt to reconstruct democracy in America, 1860–1880.* Harcourt, Brace and Company. Du Bois, W. E. B. (1971). *Seventh son: The thought and writings of W.E.B. Du Bois* (Vol. 1). (J. Lester, Ed.). Vintage Books. Duhe, B. J. (2018). Decentering whiteness and refocusing on the local: Reframing debates on confederate monument removal in New Orleans. *Museum Anthropology, 41*(2). 120–125. https://doi.org/10.1111/muan.12184 Duncan, J., Zawistowski, C., & Luibrand, S. (2020, February 19). *50 states, 50 different ways of teaching America’s past.* CBS News. https://www.cbsnews.com/news/us-history-how-teaching-americas-past-varies-across-the-country/ Dunn, A. W. (1916). *The social studies in secondary education.* (Report of the Committee on Social Studies of the Commission on the Reorganization of Secondary Education of the National Education Association). Department of the Interior: Bureau of Education. https://eric.ed.gov/?id=ED542444 Education Justice Research and Organizing Collaborative. (2020). The Metropolitan Center for the Research on Equity and the Transformation of Schools, New York University. https://steinhardt.nyu.edu/metrocenter/ejroc Edwards, S. (2019). Reflective journaling as contemplative practice: Applications for a social justice educator. In J. Lin, T.E. Culham, & S. Edwards (Eds), *Contemplative pedagogies for transformative teaching, learning, and being.* (pp. 329-344). Information Age Publishing. https://www.academia.edu/42964973/Reflective_Journaling_as_Contemplative_Practice_Applications_for_a_Social_Justice_Educator Egalite, A. J., Kisida, B., & Winters, M. A. (2015). Representation in the classroom: The effect of own-race teachers on student achievement. *Economics of Education Review, 45*, 44–52. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.econedurev.2015.01.007 El-Amin, A., Seider, S., Graves, D., Tamerat, J., Clark, S., Soutter, M., Johannsen, J., & Malhotra, S. (2017, February 4). Critical consciousness: A key to student achievement. *Phi Delta Kappa.* https://kappanonline.org/critical-consciousness-key-student-achievement/ Engles, T. (2006). Toward a bibliography of critical whiteness studies. *Faculty Research & Creative Activity, 51*. Eastern Illinois University. https://thekeep.eiu.edu/eng_fac/51?utm_source=thekeep.eiu.edu%2Feng_fac%2F51&utm_medium=PDF&utm_campaign=PDFCoverPages Epstein, T. (2009). *Interpreting national history: Race, identity, and pedagogy in classrooms and communities*. Routledge. https://doi.org/10.4324/9780203890967 Etherington, K. (2007). Ethical research in reflexive relationships: A dialogical process. *Qualitative Inquiry, 13*(5), 599–616. https://doi.org/10.1177/1077800407301175 Evans, R. W. (2006). The social studies wars, now and then. *Social Education, 70*(5), 317–321. https://www.socialstudies.org/system/files/publications/articles/se_700506317.pdf Every Student Succeeds Act, 20 U.S.C. § 6301 (2015). https://www.everystudentsucceedsact.org/ Facing History and Ourselves, (2022). *About us*. https://www.facinghistory.org/ Farag, A. (2021, January 25). *The fear of multiple truths: On teaching about racism in a predominantly white school*. Phi Dela Kappan. https://kappanonline.org/fear-multiple-truths-teaching-racism-predominantly-white-school-farag/ Farrell, T. S. C. (2011). Exploring the professional role identities of experienced ESL teachers through reflective practice. *System, 39*(1), 51–62. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.system.2011.01.012 Farrow, H. (2020, July 20). The 1619 project curriculum taught in over 4,500 schools — Frederick County public schools has the option. *The Frederick News-Post*. https://www.fredericknewspost.com/news/education/the-1619-project-curriculum-taught-in-over-4-500-schools-frederick-county-public-schools-has/article_a2921b75-d012-5e9e-9816-8e762539f1d4.html Feingold, J. (2022). Reclaiming crt: How regressive laws can advance progressive ends *South Carolina Law Review, 73*(1). https://ssrn.com/abstract=4094443 Ferlazzo, L. (2022). Professional development doesn’t have to be boring and painful. *Education Week*. https://www.edweek.org/leadership/opinion-professional-development-doesnt-have-to-be-boring-and-painful/2022/03 Fitzpatrick, J.L., Sanders, J.R., & Worthen, B.R., (2011). *Program evaluation: Alternative approaches and practical guidelines* (4th ed.) Pearson Education. Forest, B., & Johnson, J. (2019). Confederate monuments and the problem of forgetting. *Cultural Geographies in Practice, 26*(1), 127-131. https://doi.org/10.1177/1474474018796653 Forman, T. A., & Lewis, A. E. (2015). Beyond prejudice? Young whites’ racial attitudes in post-civil rights American, 1976 to 2000. *American Behavioral Scientist, 59*(11), 1394–1428. https://doi.org/10.1177/0002764215588811 Foste, Z., & Irwin, L. (2020). Applying critical whiteness studies in college student development theory and research. *Journal of College Student Development, 61*(4), 439–455. https://doi.org/10.1353/csd.2020.0050 Frankenberg, R. (1993). *White women, race matters: The social construction of whiteness*. University of Minnesota Press. https://www.jstor.org/stable/10.5749/j.ctttsnhh Freire, P. (1970). *Pedagogy of the oppressed*. Herder & Herder. Frey, W.H., (2018). *The US will become ‘minority white’ in 2045, Census projects*. The Brookings Institute. https://www.brookings.edu/blog/the-avenue/2018/03/14/the-us-will-become-minority-white-in-2045-census-projects/ Fullan, M. J. (2015). *The new meaning of educational change* (5th ed.). Teachers College Press. Fultz, M. (2004). The displacement of Black educators post-*Brown*: An overview and analysis. *History of Education Quarterly, 44*(1), 11–45. https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1748-5959.2004.tb00144.x Gannon, M., (2016). *Race is a social construct, scientists argue*. Scientific American. https://www.scientificamerican.com/article/race-is-a-social-construct-scientists-argue/ Gardner, D. M., & Alanis, J. M. (2020). Together we stand: Ally training for discrimination and harassment reduction. *Industrial and Organizational Psychology, 13*(2), 196–199. https://doi.org/10.1017/iop.2020.35 Garrett-Scott, S., Richardson, R., & Dillard-Allen, V. (2013). “When peace come”: Teaching the significance of Juneteenth. *Black History Bulletin, 76*(2), 19–25. https://doi.org/10.1353/bhb.2013.0015 Gee, J. P. (2000). Identity as an analytic lens for research in education. *Review of Research in Education, 25*(1), 99–125. https://doi.org/10.3102/0091732X025001099 Geiger, A. W. (2018, August 27). *America’s public school teachers are far less racially and ethnically diverse than their students*. Pew Research. https://www.pewresearch.org/fact-tank/2018/08/27/americas-public-school-teachers-are-far-less-racially-and-ethnically-diverse-than-their-students/ Gerwin, D. (2015). Responding to a social studies classic – “decision-making: The heart of social studies instruction” *The Social Studies* 94(1), 23-27. http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/00220973.1945.11019962 Gibson, A. N., & Hughes-Hassell, S. (2017). We will not be silent: Amplifying marginalized voices in LIS education and research. *Library Quarterly, 87*(4), 317–329. https://doi.org/10.1086/693488 Gibson, M. (2020). From deliberation to counter-narration: Toward a critical pedagogy for democratic citizenship. *Theory & Research in Social Education, 48*(3), 431–454. https://doi.org/10.1080/00933104.2020.1747034 Gilligan, C. (1982). *In a different voice: Psychological theory and women’s development*. Harvard University Press. https://www.researchgate.net/publication/275714106_In_A_Different_Voice_Psychological_Theory_and_Women%27s_Development Gindi, S., & Erlich, R. R. (2017). High school teachers’ attitudes and reported behaviors towards controversial issues. *Teaching and Teacher Education, 70*(58). https://doi.org/10.1016/j.tate.2017.11.006 Girard, B., McArthur Harris, L., Mayger, L.K., Kessner, T.M., and Reid, S. (2021). “There’s no way we can teach all of this”: Factors that influence secondary history teachers’ content choices. *Theory & research in social education* 49(2), 227-261. https://doi.org/10.1080/00933104.2020.1855280 Giroux, H. A. (1992). Literacy, pedagogy and the politics of difference. *College Literature, 19*(1), 1–11. Giroux, H.A. (2001). *Theory and resistance in education*. Bergin & Garvey Gitomer, D. H., & Zisk, R. C. (2015). Knowing what teachers know. *Review of Research in Education, 39*(1), 1–53. https://doi.org/10.3102/0091732X14557001 Gitomer, D. H., Brown, T. L., & Bonett, J. (2010). Useful signal or unnecessary obstacle? The role of basic skills tests in teacher preparation. *Journal of Teacher Education, 62*(5), 431–445. https://doi.org/10.1177/0022487111412785 Gladwell, M. (2021). *I hate the ivy league: riffs and rants on elite education*. Pushkin Industries. Golafshani, N. (2003). Understanding reliability and validity in qualitative research. *The Qualitative Report, 8*(4), 597–606. http://www.nova.edu/ssss/QR/QR8-4/golafshani.pdf Goldstein, E. L. (2008). *The price of whiteness: Jews, race and American identity*. Princeton University Press. https://doi.org/10.2307/j.ctvs32sd7 Gomez, D. (2022, February 1). *Why teachers are leaving and where they’re going*. Forbes. https://www.forbes.com/sites/forbescouncils/2022/02/01/why-teachers-are-leaving-and-where-theyre-going/?sh=292e7c375c0d Gorski, P.C. (2017). *Key characteristics of a multicultural curriculum*. EdChange and Equity Literacy Institute Project. http://www.edchange.org/multicultural/curriculum/characteristics.html Granados, A. (2021, January 28). *Revisions to social studies standards spark debate*. Education NC. https://www.ednc.org/2020-01-27-revision-to-social-studies-standards-spark-debate/ Grayman-Simpson, N., Doucet, F., & Burgos-López, L. (2019). Critical whiteness education and cognitive frame of reference elaboration: An in-depth descriptive case of transformation. *Journal of Transformative Education, 17*(3), 269–286. https://doi.org/10.1177/1541344618821053 Green, A. (1990). *Education and state formation: The rise of education systems in England, France and the USA*. Macmillan. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-1-349-12853-2 Greene, P. (2022, February 16). *Teacher anti-crt bills coast to coast: A state by state guide*. Forbes. https://www.forbes.com/sites/petergreene/2022/02/16/teacher-anti-crt-bills-coast-to-coast-a-state-by-state-guide/?sh=608396d04f6 Gruenewald, D. A. (2003). The best of both worlds: A critical pedagogy of place. *Educational researcher, 32*(4), 3-12. https://doi.org/10.3102/0013189X032004003 Guglielmo, J., & Salerno, S. (2003). *Are Italians white? How race is made in America*. Routledge. https://doi.org/10.4324/9780203616673 Gulamhussein, A. (2013). *Teaching the teachers: Effective professional development in the era of high stakes accountability*. National School Board Association, Center for Public Education. http://conference.ohioschoolboards.org/2017/wp-%20content/uploads/sites/17/2016/07/1pm111317A114Job-embedPD.pdf Hagerman, M. A. (2018). *White kids: Growing up with privilege in a racially divided America*. New York University Press. https://www.jstor.org/stable/j.ctv12pmr4t Hahn, C. (2008). *Doing qualitative research using your computer*. SAGE Publications, Ltd. https://dx.doi.org/10.4135/9780857024411 Hanna, F., Oostdam, R., Severiens, S. E., & Zijlstra, B. J. H. (2019). Domains of teacher identity: A review of quantitative measurement instruments. *Educational Research Review, 27*, 15–27. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.edurev.2019.01.003 Hanover Research, (2020). *Research brief & discussion guide: Culturally responsive curriculum*. www.hanoverresearch.com Harackiewicz, J.M., Smith, J.L., & Priniski, S.J. (2016). Interest matters: The importance of promoting interest in education. *Policy Insights Behavioral Brain Sciences, 3*(2). www.doi.org/10.1177/2372732216655542 Haviland, V. S. (2008). “Things get glossed over”: Rearticulating the silencing power of whiteness in education. *Journal of Teacher Education, 59*(1), 40–54. https://doi.org/10.1177/0022487107310751. Hawkman, A. M. (2017). *Swimming through whiteness: Exploring non-racism and anti-racism in social studies teacher education* (Publication No. 11012815) [Doctoral dissertation, University of Missouri-Columbia]. ProQuest Dissertations and Theses Global. https://doi.org/10.32469/10355/61930 Hawkman, A. M. (2019). “Let’s try and grapple all of this”: A snapshot of racial identity development and racial pedagogical decision making in an elective social studies course. *The Journal of Social Studies Research, 43*(3), 215–228. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jssr.2018.02.005 Hawkman, A. M. (2020). Swimming in and through whiteness: Anti-racism in social studies teacher education. *Theory & Research in Social Education, 48*(3), 403-430. https://doi.org/10.1080/00933104.2020.1724578 Hawley, T. S., Crowe, A. R., & Mooney, E. (2016). Visualizing social justice: Using controversial images in social studies classrooms. *The Clearing House, 89*(3), 85–90. https://doi.org/10.1080/00098655.2016.1181046 Hawley, T.S., & Whitman, G.M. (2020). Fear and learning in student teaching: Accountability as gatekeeper in social studies. *The Journal of Social Studies Research, 44*, 105-115. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jssr.2019.04.003 Hays, D. G., Chang, C. Y., & Decker, S. L. (2007). Initial development and psychometric data for the privilege and oppression inventory. *Measurement and Evaluation in Counseling and Development, 40*, 66–79. doi:10.1080/07481756.2007.11909806 Helms, J. E. & Carter, R. T. (1990). Development of the white racial identity inventory. In J.E. Helms, (Ed.), *Black and White racial identity: Theory, research, and practice* (pp. 67–80). Greenwood Press. Hilaire, J. (2020, June 10). *A call to action*. Inside Higher Ed. https://www.insidehighered.com/advice/2020/06/10/recommendations-how-white-allies-can-truly-support-black-people-and-their Hillbard, L. (2012, March 21). *Western Union Elementary School under fire for suggesting African American attire is ‘animal print.’* The Huffington Post. https://www.huffpost.com/entry/western-union-elementary-african-american-attire_n_1370984 History.com Editors, (2021, August 26). *Quarterback Colin Kaepernick sits during national anthem, give interview about it for the first time*. History.com. A&E Television Networks. https://www.history.com/this-day-in-history/colin-kaepernick-kneels-during-national-anthem Ho, L. C., & Barton, K. C. (2020). Preparation for civil society: A necessary element of curriculum for social justice. *Theory & Research in Social Education, 48*(4), 471–491. https://doi.org/10.1080/00933104.2020.1763880 Ho, L. C., McAvoy, P., Hess, D., & Gibbs, B. (2017). Teaching and learning about controversial issues and topics in the social studies. In M. M. Manfra & C. M. Bolick (Eds.), *The Wiley handbook of social studies research* (pp. 321–335). Wiley-Blackwell. http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/9781118768747.ch14 hooks, b. (1989). *Talking back: Thinking feminist, thinking Black*. South End Press. Horowitz, J.M., Brown, A., & Cox, K. (2019, April 9). *The role of race and ethnicity in Americans’ personal lives*. Pew Research Center. https://www.pewresearch.org/social-trends/2019/04/09/the-role-of-race-and-ethnicity-in-americans-personal-lives/ Howell, J. B., & Callahan, C. (2016). Making sense of public issues with songs. *Social Studies Research and Practice, 11*(2), 80–91. http://www.socstrpr.org/wp-content/uploads/2016/08/MS06687-Howell.pdf Hubbard, J. (2019). K-6 pre-service teachers’ emerging professional identities as social studies educators. *The Journal of Social Studies Research, 43*(3), 269–283. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jssr.2018.04.002 Hughes, T. (2021). *History curriculum, books were written by and for white people. What about kids of color?* USA Today. https://www.usatoday.com/story/news/education/2021/09/12/history-curriculum-textbooks-critical-race-theory/5513019001/?gnt-cfr=1 Hylton, M. E., Manit, J., & Messick-Svare, G. (2018). Gatekeeping and competency-based education: Developing behaviorally specific remediation policies. *Journal of Teaching in Social Work, 37*(3), 249–259. https://doi.org/10.1080/08841233.2017.1313359 Iglesias, R., Aceituno, D., & Toledo, M. I. (2017). Student teachers’ understandings and practices for teaching “controversial issues” in the high school history curriculum. *Procedia – Social and Behavioral Sciences, 237*(1), 452–457. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.sbspro.2017.02.089 Interaction Institute for Social Change, (2019). *Results*. https://interactioninstitute.org/results/ Jansen, J.D. & Reddy, V. (1994). *Curriculum analysis: A reference manual*. Improving Educational Quality. https://sites.pitt.edu/~ginie/ieq/material.html Johnson, K., Perez-Pena, R., & Eligon, J. (2015, June 16). Rachel Dolezal, in center of storm, is defiant: ‘I identify as Black’. *The New York Times*. https://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/17/us/rachel-dolezal-nbc-today-show.html Johnson, J. A. (2016). *A phenomenological study of teacher “curricular” autonomy and its effects on social studies instructional time* (Publication No. 1836056273) [Doctoral dissertation, University of Missouri-St. Louis]. ProQuest Dissertations and Theses Global. https://ir.library.umsystem.edu/umsl_dissertations/76/ Johnson, L., & Morris, P. (2010). Towards a framework for critical citizenship education. *Curriculum Journal, 21*(1), 77–96. https://doi.org/10.1080/09585170903560444 Joyner, C. (2020, July 11). As monuments tumble, are we ‘erasing’ history? Historians say no. *The Atlanta Journal-Constitution*. https://www.ajc.com/news/state--regional/monuments-tumble-are-erasing-history-historians-say/upiNTQHu3gzGxI0BOjHQGL/ Jussim, L. (2016). *Stereotype accuracy is one of the largest and most replicable effects in all of social psychology*. The Society for Personality and Social Psychology. https://spsp.org/news-center/character-context-blog/stereotype-accuracy-one-largest-and-most-replicable-effects-all Kahlke, R.M. (2014). Generic qualitative approaches: Pitfalls and benefits of methodological mixology. *International Journal of Qualitative Methods, 13*(1), 37–52. https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/full/10.1177/160940691401300119 Kendi, I. X. (2016). *Stamped from the beginning*. Bold Type Books. Kendi, I. X. (2019). *How to be an anti-racist*. Penguin Random House Kendi, I. X., & Blain, K. N. (Eds.). (2021). *Four hundred souls: A community history of African America, 1619–2019*. One World. Kentli, F. (2009). Comparison of hidden curriculum theories. *European Journal of Educational Studies, 1*(2): 83 – 88. https://www.researchgate.net/publication/265989584_Comparison_of_hidden_curriculum_theories King, L. J. (2016). Black history as anti-racist and non-racist. In T. Husband (Ed.), *But I don’t see color* (pp. 63–79). Sense Publishers. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-94-6300-585-2_6 King, L. J. (2019). Interpreting Black history: Toward a Black history framework for teacher education. *Urban Education, 54*(3), 368–396. https://doi.org/10.1177/0042085918756716 King, L. J. (2020). Black history is not American history: Toward a framework of Black historical consciousness. *Social Education, 84*(6), 335–341. https://www.socialstudies.org/social-education/84/6/black-history-not-american-history-toward-framework-black-historical King, L. J., & Brown, K. (2014). Once a year to be Black: Fighting against typical Black history month pedagogies. *Negro Educational Review, 65*(1-4), 23–43. https://eric.ed.gov/?id=EJ1054134 King, L. J., & Chandler, P. T. (2015). From non-racism to anti-racism in social studies teacher education: Social studies and racial pedagogical content knowledge. In A.R. Crowe & A. Cuenca (Eds.), *Rethinking social studies teacher education in the twenty-first century* (pp. 3–21). Springer International Publishing. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-22939-3_1 King, L. J., Vickery, A. E., & Caffrey, G. (2018). A pathway to racial literacy: Using the LETS ACT framework to teach controversial issues. *Social Education, 82*(6), 316–322. https://www.researchgate.net/publication/329543077_Teaching_Controversial_Issues_A_Pathway_to_Racial_Literacy_Using_the_LETS_ACT_Framework_to_Teach_Controversial_Issues King, L.J. (2017). The status of Black history in U.S. schools and society. *Social Education, 81*(1), 14-18. https://www.socialstudies.org/system/files/publications/articles/se_810117014.pdf Klein, A. (2021, July 28). Student learning declined this year, especially for the most vulnerable kids, data shows. *Education Week*. https://www.edweek.org/leadership/student-learning-declined-this-year-especially-for-the-most-vulnerable-kids-data-shows/2021/07 Knowles, R. T. (2019). Ideology in the schools: Developing the teacher’s civic education ideology scale within the United States. *Education, Citizenship and Social Justice, 14*(3), 260-278. https://doi.org.libdata.lib.ua.edu/10.1177/1746197918800664 Knowles, E. D. & Peng, K. (2005). White selves: Conceptualizing and measuring a dominant-group identity. *Journal of Personality and Social Psychology, 89*, 223–241. doi:10.1037/0022-3522.214.171.124 Kohli, R. (2008). Breaking the cycle of racism in the classroom: Critical race reflections from future teachers of color. *Teacher Education Quarterly, 35*(4), 177–188. https://files.eric.ed.gov/fulltext/EJ838707.pdf Kountz, K. (2021, March, 2). *First class: Connecticut on path to become first state to require Black & Latino studies in high schools*. WTNH News 8. https://www.wtnh.com/hidden-history/black-history-month/first-class-connecticut-on-path-to-become-first-state-to-require-black-latino-studies-in-high-schools/ Krefting, L. (1991). Rigor in qualitative research: The assessment of trustworthiness. *The American Journal of Occupational Therapy, 45*(3), 214–222. https://doi.org/10.5014/ajot.45.3.214 Laats, A. (2015). Trump’s threat to pull funding from schools over how they teach slavery is part of a long history of politicizing American history class. *Time*. https://time.com/5889051/history-curriculum-politics/ Ladson-Billings, G. (1995). But that’s just good teaching! The case for culturally relevant pedagogy. *Theory Into Practice, 34*(3), 159–165. https://doi.org/10.1080/00405849509543675 Ladson-Billings, G. (1998). Just what is critical race theory and what’s it doing in a nice field like education? *International Journal of Qualitative Studies in Education, 11*(1), 7–24, http://doi.org/10.1080/095183998236863 Ladson-Billings, G. (2001). *Crossing over to Canaan: The journey of new teachers in diverse classrooms*. Jossey-Bass. Ladson-Billings, G., & Tate, W. F. (1995). Toward a critical race theory of education. *Teachers College Record, 97*, 47–68. https://doi.org/10.1177/016146819509700104 Lawrence S. & Tatum, B.D. (n.d.). *White racial identity and anti-racist education: A catalyst for change*. Early Childhood Equity Alliance. https://www.teachingforchange.org/wpcontent/uploads/2012/08/ec_whiteracialidentity_english.pdf Lehman, P. R. (2020). Professional notes: The problem with the national anthem. *Music Educators Journal, 107*(2), 14–15. https://doi.org/10.1177/0027432120976049 Leung, A.K., Maddux, W., Galinsky, A.D. & Chiu, Y.C. (2008). Multicultural experience enhances creativity: The when and how. *American Psychology, 63*(3), 169–181. http://dx.doi.org/10.1037/0003-066X.63.3.169 Lincoln, Y. S., & Guba, E. A. (1985). *Naturalistic inquiry*. SAGE Publications. Lintner, T. (2018). The controversy over controversy in the social studies classroom. *SRATE Journal, 27*(1), 14–21. http://files.eric.ed.gov/fulltext/EJ1166700.pdf Loewen, J. W. (1995). *Lies my teacher told me: Everything your American history textbook got wrong*. Simon & Schuster. Lopez, G. (2017, March 7). *For years, this popular test measured anyone’s racial bias. But it might not work after all*. Vox. https://www.vox.com/identities/2017/3/7/14637626/implicit-association-test-racism Love, B., & Tosolt, B. (2010). Reality or rhetoric? Barack Obama and post-racial America. *Race, Gender & Class, 17*(3/4), 19–37. https://www.jstor.org/stable/41674749 Maddox, L. E., & Saye, J. W. (2014). Authentic pedagogy and the acquisition of lower order knowledge in history. *Social Studies Research and Practice, 9*(1). https://ir.una.edu/secondary_ed/1/ Madison, D. S. (2020). *Critical ethnography: Method, ethics, and performance* (3rd ed.). SAGE Publications. Manfra, M. M., & Boliek, C. M. (Eds.). (2017). *The Wiley handbook of social studies research*. Wiley-Blackwell. Maranto, J. H. (2015). The effect of standardized testing on historical literacy and educational reform in the U.S. *Academic Leadership Journal in Student Research, 3*. https://files.eric.ed.gov/fulltext/EJ1062724.pdf Maxwell, J. A. (2013). *Qualitative research design: An interactive approach* (3rd ed.). SAGE Publications. McGee, V. (2022, March 29). *Latino, Latinx, Hispanic, or Latine? Which term should you use?* Best Colleges. https://www.bestcolleges.com/blog/hispanic-latino-latinx-latine/ McIntosh, P. (1989). White privilege: Unpacking the invisible knapsack. *Peace and Freedom Magazine*, 10–12. https://www.racialequitytools.org/resourcefiles/mcintosh.pdf McLaughlin, K. (2018, November). *Teachers are seeing their colleagues leave the profession at an alarming rate, and this might be why*. Insider. https://www.insider.com/teachers-are-seeing-their-colleagues-leave-at-an-alarming-rate-2018-11 Mercer, M. (2020, August 20). *Black history instruction gets new emphasis in many states*. The Pew Charitable Trusts. https://www.pewtrusts.org/en/research-and-analysis/blogs/stateline/2020/08/20/black-history-instruction-gets-new-emphasis-in-many-states Merriam, S. B. (1998). *Qualitative research and case study applications in education* (2nd ed.). Jossey-Bass. Merriam, S. B., & Tisdell, E. J. (2016). *Qualitative research: A guide to design and implementation* (4th ed.). Jossey-Bass. Merriam-Webster (n.d.). Definition of woke. *Merriam-Webster dictionary*. Retrieved January 8, 2022 from https://www.merriamwebster.com/dictionary/woke?utm_campaign=sd&utm_medium=serp&utm_source=jsonld Meyrat, A. (2020, July 30). *How schools paved the way for Americans to believe The 1619 Project*. The Federalist. https://thefederalist.com/2020/07/30/how-public-schools-paved-the-way-for-americans-to-believe-the-1619-project/ Miles, M., Huberman, A., & Saldaña, J. (1994). Fundamentals of qualitative data analysis. In *Qualitative data analysis: A methods sourcebook* (3rd ed., pp. 61–102). SAGE Publications. https://eric.ed.gov/?id=ED565763 Miller, P. K. (2017). How white college students enact whiteness: An investigation of the attitudinal, behavioural and cultural components that comprise white racial identity at a historically white college. *Whiteness and Education, 2*, 92–111. doi:10.1080/23793406.2017.1327327 Mirzaei, A. (2021, September 10). *Where ‘woke’ came from and why marketers should think twice before jumping on the social activism bandwagon*. The Conversation. https://theconversation.com/where-woke-came-from-and-why-marketers-should-think-twice-before-jumping-on-the-social-activism-bandwagon-122713. Moorhead, L., & Jimenez, J. (2020). ‘This is me’: Expressions of intersecting identity in an LGBTQ+ ethnic studies course. *The Journal of Social Studies Research, 45*(1), 35–57. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jsr.2020.04.003 Moroney, F. (2018, August 16). *Why my “good intentions” aren’t enough to dismantle white superiority*. Everyday Democracy. https://www.everyday-democracy.org/news/good-intentions-aren%E2%80%99t-enough-dismantle-white-superiority Motamedi, J. G., (2019). *How teachers of color can make a difference in the classroom and beyond*. Education Northwest. https://educationnorthwest.org/northwest-matters/how-teachers-color-can-make-difference-classroom-and-beyond Muhlenfeld-Johnson, J. K. (2020). *The systematic and intentional removal of white supremacy from social studies: A self-reflective action research project* [Unpublished manuscript]. Department of Education, The University of Alabama. Myers, J. P. (2006). Rethinking the social studies curriculum in the context of globalization: Education for global citizenship in the US. *Theory & Research in Social Education, 34*(3), 370–394. https://doi.org/10.1080/00933104.2006.10473313 Nagy, P. (2000). The three roles of assessment: Gatekeeping, accountability, and instructional diagnosis. *Canadian Journal of Education, 25*(4), 262–279. https://doi.org/10.2307/1585850 National Board for Professional Teaching Standards. (2015). *The proven impact of board-certified teachers on student achievement* [Impact brief]. https://www.nbpts.org/wp-content/uploads/impact_brief_final.pdf National Center for Education Statistics (2018). *State nonfiscal public elementary/secondary education survey data*. Common Core of Data: America’s Public Schools https://nces.ed.gov/ccd/stnfis.asp National Center for Education Statistics, (2019). *Table 203.50: Enrollment and percentage distribution of enrollment in public elementary and secondary schools, by race/ethnicity and region: Selected years, fall 1995 through fall 2029*, Common Core of Data: Digest of Education Statistics. https://nces.ed.gov/programs/digest/d19/tables/dt19_203.50.asp National Council for the Social Studies. (2008). *Curriculum guidelines for social studies teaching and learning*. NCSS Position Statement. https://www.socialstudies.org/sites/default/files/Curriculum_Guidelines_SocialStudies_Teaching_and_Learning_0.pdf National Council for the Social Studies. (2010). *National curriculum standards for social studies: A framework for teaching, learning, and assessment*. https://www.socialstudies.org/standards/national-curriculum-standards-social-studies National Council for the Social Studies. (2013). *College, Career, and Civic Life (C3) Framework for social studies state standards*. https://www.socialstudies.org/standards/c3 National Council for the Social Studies. (2016, May). *Position statement: A vision of powerful teaching and learning in the social studies*. https://www.socialstudies.org/social-education/80/03/vision-powerful-teaching-and-learning-social-studies National Council for the Social Studies. (2018). *National standards for the preparation of social studies teachers*. https://www.socialstudies.org/standards/national-standards-preparation-social-studies-teachers National Council for the Social Studies. (2020a). *Introduction*. https://www.socialstudies.org/standards/introduction. National Council for the Social Studies. (2020b, September 17). *Teaching about slavery using The 1619 Project and other resources*. A Current Events Response by National Council for the Social Studies. https://www.socialstudies.org/current-events-response/teaching-about-slavery-using-1619-project-and-other-resources National Council for the Social Studies. (n.d.-a). *Resources for teaching about racism, anti-racism, and human rights*. https://www.socialstudies.org/resources/resources-teaching-about-racism-anti-racism-and-human-rights National Council for the Social Studies. (n.d.-b.). *What is social studies?* National Institutes of Health, (n.d.). *Visual literacy: Interpreting nursing postcards*. United States National Library of Medicine [Exhibition Program]. https://www.nlm.nih.gov/exhibition/picturesofnursing/education/materials/Visual-Literacy-Critical-Lenses.pdf National Museum of African American History & Culture. (n.d.). Race and racial identity. *Smithsonian*. https://nmaahc.si.edu/learn/talking-about-race/topics/race-and-racial-identity Navarro, O., & Howard, T. C. (2017). A critical race theory analysis of social studies research, theory, and practice. In M. M. Manfra & C. M. Boliek (Eds.), *The Wiley handbook of social studies research* (pp. 209–226). Wiley-Blackwell. Nayak, A. (2007). Critical whiteness studies. *Sociology Compass*, 1(2), 737–755. https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1751-9020.2007.00045.x NBC12 Newsroom, (2022, January 22). *Gov. Youngkin sets up tip line to report ‘divisive’ teaching practices*. NBC. https://www.nbc12.com/2022/01/25/gov-youngkin-sets-up-tip-line-report-divisive-teaching-practices/ Nebraska Department of Education. (2020). *Anti-racism and equity resources*. https://www.education.ne.gov/socialstudies/anti-racism-and-equity-resources/ Nelson, J. L. (2001). Defining social studies. In W. B. Stanley (Ed.), *Critical issues in social studies research for the 21st century* (pp. 15–34). Information Age Publishing. https://eric.ed.gov/?id=ED453118 Neville, H. A., Lilly, R. L., Duran, G., Lee, R. M., Browne, L. (2000). Construction and initial validation of the color-blind racial attitudes scale (CoBRAS). *Journal of Counseling Psychology, 47*, 59–70. doi:10.1037/0022-0126.96.36.199 New Jersey Department of Education. (n.d.). *Equity and anti-racism resources for districts*. https://www.nj.gov/education/equity/resources/ New York Collective of Radical Educators and Inquiry Action Groups, (2009). *Revolutionizing the classroom: Transforming mainstream curriculum into social justice teaching*. http://www.nycore.org/ Newsome, G. (2021, October 8). *Official statement*. Office of the Governor. https://www.gov.ca.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/10/AB-101-Signing-Message-PDF.pdf Newsome, M. (2017). *Is removing confederate monuments like erasing history?* NBC News. https://www.nbcnews.com/news/nbcblk/are-removing-confederate-monuments-erasing-history-n750526 Nganga, L., Roberts, A., Kambutu, J., & James, J. (2019). Examining pre-service teachers’ preparedness and perceptions about teaching controversial issues in social studies. *The Journal of Social Studies Research, 44*(1), 77–90. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jsrr.2019.08.001 No Child Left Behind (NCLB) Act of 2001, Pub. L. No. 107-110, § 101, Stat. 1425 (2002). https://www.govinfo.gov/app/details/PLAW-107publ110 Noonan, J. (2019). An affinity for learning: Teacher identity and powerful professional development. *Journal of Teacher Education, 70*(5), 526–537. https://doi.org/10.1177/0022487118788838 Nowell, L. S., Norris, J. M., White, D. E., & Moules, N. J. (2017). Thematic analysis: Striving to meet the trustworthiness criteria. *International Journal of Qualitative Methods, 16*(1). https://doi.org/10.1177/1609406917733847 NYC Coalition for Educational Justice, (2020). *Diverse city, white curriculum: The exclusion of people of color from English language arts in NYC schools*. NYC Coalition for Educational Justice, New York University. www.nyceej.org/wp-content/uploads/2019/12/Diverse-City-White-Curriculum-3.pdf NYU Metropolitan Center for Research on Equity and the Transformation of Schools, (2019). *Culturally responsive curriculum scorecard toolkit*. New York University: Education Justice Research & Organizing Collaborative. https://steinhardt.nyu.edu/metrocenter/ejroc/services/culturally-responsive-curriculum-scorecards O’Neil, L. (2018, June 19). ‘Essentially summer camps’: How the right is defending family separations. The Guardian. https://www.theguardian.com/us-news/2018/jun/19/border-separations-children-families-trump-supporters-defence-breitbart-fox-news Oliver, J. (2020, August 2). *U.S. history* [Video]. Last Week Tonight with John Oliver. YouTube. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hsxukOPEdgg Orrell, J. (2019). Wise practice for teaching. In J. Higgs (Ed.), *Practice wisdom* (Vol. 3, pp. 299–310). Brill | Sense. https://doi.org/10.1163/9789004410497_025 Owens, E. (2020, June 15). White people, please stop declaring yourself allies. *Philadelphia Magazine*. https://www.phillymag.com/news/2020/06/15/white-people-ally-culture/ Pace, J. L. (2019). Contained risk-taking: Preparing preservice teachers to teach controversial issues in three countries. *Theory and Research in Social Education, 47*(2), 228–260. https://doi.org/10.1080/00933104.2019.1595240 Pajares, M. F. (1992). Teachers’ beliefs and educational research: Cleaning up a messy construct. *Review of Educational Research, 62*(3), 307–332. https://doi.org/10.3102/00346543062003307 Parker C.S. & Willsa, J. (2019). *Summary of stages of racial identity development*. Interaction Institute for Social Change. https://www.wvc.edu/students/support/diversity/Stages%20of%20Racial%20Identity%20Development.pdf Parker, K., Horowitz, J.M., Morin, R., & Lopez, M.H., (2015, June 15). *Multiracial in America* (Chapter 3: The multiracial identity gap). Pew Research. https://www.pewresearch.org/social-trends/2015/06/11/chapter-3-the-multiracial-identity-gap/ Patterson, J. T. (2001). *Brown v. Board of Education: A civil rights milestone and its troubled legacy*. Oxford University Press. Pew Research Center. (2019, April 9). *Race in America: Survey of U.S. adults conducted Jan. 22–Feb. 5, 2019*. https://www.pewresearch.org/social-trends/2019/04/09/the-role-of-race-and-ethnicity-in-americans-personal-lives/ Pfeifer, H., (2022). Combatting misinformation and the assault on academic freedom with research, education, and advocacy. *Justice Quarterly*. 1–26. https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/epub/10.1080/07418825.2022.2086482?needAccess=true Phelps, J. (2019, April 26). *Trump defends 2017 ‘very fine people’ comments, calls Robert E. Lee ‘a great general.’* ABC News. https://abcnews.go.com/Politics/trump-defends-2017-fine-people-comments-calls-robert/story?id=62653478 Picower, B. (2009). The unexamined whiteness of teaching: How white teachers maintain and enact dominant racial ideologies. *Race Ethnicity and Education, 12*(2), 197–215. https://doi.org/10.1080/12613320902995475 Pillow, A. (2021, July 26). We all hate professional development, but some of y’all need it. EdPost. https://www.edpost.com/stories/we-all-hate-professional-development-but-some-of-yall-need-it Pillow, W. (2003). Confession, catharsis, or cure? Rethinking the uses of reflexivity as methodological power in qualitative research. *International Journal of Qualitative Studies in Education, 16*(2), 175–196. https://doi.org/10.1080/0951839032000060635 Pitts, J. (1974). The study of race consciousness: Comments on new directions. *American Journal of Sociology, 80*(3), 665–687. https://www.journals.uchicago.edu/doi/abs/10.1086/225852 Pizzo, P. (n.d.). *A guide to allyship*. https://guidetoallyship.com/ Pollock, M. (Ed.). (2008). *Everyday anti-racism*. The New Press. Preissle, J. (2008). Subjectivity statement. In L. M. Given (Ed.), *The SAGE encyclopedia of qualitative research methods* (pp. 845–846). SAGE Publications. Price, A. (2019, October 1). *Spell it with a capital “B”*. Insight Center for Community Economic Development. https://insightced.medium.com/spell-it-with-a-capital-b-9eab112d759a Prior, L. (2008). Repositioning documents in social research. *Sociology, 42*(5), 821–836. https://www.jstor.org/stable/42857190 Project Implicit. (1998). *Race implicit association test*. Harvard University. https://implicit.harvard.edu Pulitzer Center. (2018). *What it’s like to be part of India’s queer community*. Lesson Plans. https://pulitzercenter.org/builder/lesson/what-is-be-part-indias-queer-community-5-minute-read-photos Pulitzer Center. (2020). *The 1857 Project*. The 1857 Project Curricular Resources. https://pulitzercenter.org/lesson-plan-grouping/1857-project-curricular-resources Pulitzer Center. (n.d.). *The 1619 Project curriculum*. https://pulitzercenter.org/lesson-plan-grouping/1619-project-curriculum Quillian, L. (2008). Does unconscious racism exist? *Social Psychology Quarterly, 71*(1), 6–11. https://doi.org/10.1177/019027250807100103 Race Forward. (2015). *Race reporting guide*. https://www.raceforward.org/sites/default/files/Race%20Reporting%20Guide%20by%20Race%20Forward_V1.1.pdf Rankin, S., & Crary, D. (2020, June 22). *Historical figures being reexamined around the world in wake of George Floyd’s death*. The Globe and Mail. https://www.theglobeandmail.com/world/article-historical-figures-being-re-examined-around-the-world-in-wake-of/ Ravitch, D. (2003). A brief history of social studies. In J. S. Leming, L. Ellington, & K. Porter (Eds.), *Where did social studies go wrong?* (pp. 1–5). Thomas B. Fordham Foundation. https://fordhaminstitute.org/national/research/where-did-social-studies-go-wrong Richardson, V. (1996). The role of attitudes and beliefs in learning to teach. In J. Sikula (Ed.), *Handbook of research on teacher education* (2nd ed., pp. 102–119). Macmillan. Rico, J. & Sargent, M. (Hosts). (2021a, March 28). Dr. Barnor Hesse discusses his ‘8 white identities’ (Part 1) [Audio podcast episode]. In *The brown and black podcast*. Total Market Podcast, LLC. Rico, J. & Sargent, M. (Hosts). (2021b, April 5). Dr. Barnor Hesse discusses his ‘8 white identities’ (Part 2) [Audio podcast episode]. In *The brown and black podcast*. Total Market Podcast, LLC. Riddle, T., & Sinclair, S. (2019). *Racial disparities in school-based disciplinary actions are associated with county-level rates racial bias*. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America. https://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.1808307116 Rodriguez, B. (2021, February 10). *Republican state lawmakers want to punish schools that teach The 1619 Project*. USA Today. https://www.usatoday.com/story/news/education/2021/02/10/slavery-and-history-states-threaten-funding-schools-teach-1619-project/4454195001/ Rosen, R. (2017). *Why I don’t call myself an “ally.”* S.P.A.R.K. https://spark4community.com/why-i-dont-use-the-term-ally/ Roulston, K. (2010). Considering quality in qualitative interviewing. *Qualitative Research* 10, 199-228. http://qrj.sagepub.com/content/10/2/199 Roulston, K. (2018). Interviews in qualitative research. In C.A. Chapelle (Ed.), *The encyclopedia of applied linguistics*. John Wiley & Sons, Ltd. https://www.doi.org/10.1002/9781405198431.wbeal0572.pub2 Rudestam, K. E., & Newton, R. R. (2015). *Surviving your dissertation: A comprehensive guide to content and process* (4th ed.). SAGE Publications. Saad, L. (2020). *Me and white supremacy: Combat racism, change the world and become a good ancestor*. Sourcebooks. Sachs, J. (2001). Teacher professional identity: Competing discourses, competing outcomes, *Journal of Education Policy*, 16(2), 149–161. https://doi.org/10.1080/026809301116819 Saldaña, J. (2021). *The coding manual for qualitative researchers* (4th ed.). SAGE Publications. Samuels, H. (2019). *The impact of a thematic unit and integration on students’ achievement in social studies* (Publication No. 13814625) [Doctoral dissertation, University of South Carolina]. ProQuest Dissertations and Theses Global. https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/The-Impact-of-a-Thematic-Unit-and-Integration-on-in-Samuels/bb4e1f8df241a8cc31f2ed8c4ab222b42a83d6e8 Saxe, D. W. (2004). *On the alleged demise of social studies: The eclectic curriculum in times of standardization – A historical sketch*. The Department of Education. https://files.eric.ed.gov/fulltext/EJ718721.pdf Saye, J. (2002). The potential of personal technology for empowering democratic decision making. *The International Social Studies Forum*, 2(2), 191–194. Saye, J., & Social Studies Inquiry Research Collaborative. (2013). Authentic pedagogy: Its presence in social studies classrooms and relationship to student performance on state-mandated tests. *Theory & Research in Social Education, 41*(1), 89–132. https://doi.org/10.1080/00933104.2013.756785 Saye, J., & Social Studies Inquiry Research Collaborative. (2014). Achieving authentic pedagogy: Plan units, not lessons, *Social Education, 78*(1), 33–37. https://eric.ed.gov/?id=EJ1043143 Schaefer Riley, N. (2020, September 2). “*The 1619 Project*” enters American classrooms. Education Next. https://www.educationnext.org/1619-project-enters-american-classrooms-adding-new-sizzle-slavery-significant-cost/ Schmid, R. (2018). Pockets of excellence: Teacher beliefs and behaviors that lead to high Student achievement at low achieving schools. *SAGE Open, 8*(3). https://doi.org/10.1177/2158244018797238 Schneider, C. (2021, March 15). University of Wisconsin-Madison student government votes to double ethnic studies graduation requirement. *The Tennessee Star*. https://tennesseestar.com/2021/03/15/university-of-wisconsin-madison-student-government-votes-to-double-ethnic-studies-graduation-requirement/ Schocker, J.B. & De Senso, J.M., (2021/2022). What social studies teachers need to know about the crt debate. *Social Studies Journal, 41*(1). 7-12. https://pcssonline.org/2021-2022-social-studies-journal/ Schooley, R.C, Lee, D.L, & Spanierman, L.B., (2019). Measuring whiteness: A systematic review of instruments and call to action. *The Counseling Psychologist, 47*(4), 530-565. https://doi.org/10.1177/0011000019883261 Schwartz, S. (2022, July 15). *Map: Where critical race theory is under attack*. Education Week. https://www.edweek.org/policy-politics/map-where-critical-race-theory-is-under-attack/2021/06 Schwartz, S. (2019). Review finds errors, bias in history materials. *Education Week, 38*(36), 1–14. https://nowcomment.com/documents/168842 Seidman, I. (2006). *Interviewing as qualitative research* (5th ed.). Teacher’s College Press. Sellers, R. M., Chavous, T. M., & Cooke, D. Y. (1998). Racial ideology and racial centrality as predictors of African American college students’ academic performance. *Journal of Black Psychology, 24*(1), 8–27. https://doi.org/10.1177/00957984980241002 Sellers, R. M., Smith, M. A., Shelton, J. N., Rowley, A. J., & Chavous, T. M. (1998). Multidimensional model of racial identity: A reconceptualization of African American racial identity. *Personality and Social Psychology Review, 2*(1), 18–39. https://doi.org/10.1207/s15327957pspr0201_2 Shelton, S.A. & Melchior, S. (2018). ‘This is why we talk about race and sexuality, too” Challenging white feminism in and through literacies. In B.K. Guzzetti, T.W. Bean, & J. Dunkerly-Bean (Eds.) *Literacies, sexualities, and gender*. Routledge. https://doi.org/10.4324/9780429458514 Sherif, B. (2001). The ambiguity of boundaries in the fieldwork experience: Establishing and negotiating insider/outsider status. *Qualitative Inquiry, 7*(4), 436–447. https://doi.org/10.1177/107780040100700403 Shivaram, D. (2021, July 13). *Illinois has become the first state to require the teaching of Asian American history*. NPR. https://www.npr.org/2021/07/13/1015596570/illinois-has-become-the-first-state-to-require-the-teaching-of-asian-american-hi Shpancer, N. (2018, September 12). *Stereotypes are often harmful, and accurate*. Quillette. https://quillette.com/2018/09/12/stereotypes-are-often-harmful-and-accurate/ Shulman, L. J. (1986). Those who understand: Knowledge growth in teaching. *Educational Researcher, 15*(2), 4–14. https://doi.org/10.3102/0013189X015002004 Shulman, L. S. (1987). Knowledge and teaching: Foundations for the new reform. *Harvard Educational Review, 57*(1), 1–23. https://doi.org/10.17763/haer.57.1.j463w79r56455411 Shuls, J. V. (2017). Raising the bar on teacher quality: Assessing the impact of increasing licensure exam cut-scores. *Educational Policy, 32*(7), 969–992. https://doi.org/10.1177/0895904816682315 Silva, D. (2020a, June 18). *From Juneteenth to the Tulsa massacre: What isn’t taught in classrooms has a profound impact*. NBC News. https://www.nbcnews.com/news/us-news/juneteenth-tulsa-massacre-what-isn-t-taught-classrooms-has-profound-n1231442 Silva, D. (2020b, August 8). *Amid a racial reckoning, teachers are reconsidering how history is taught*. NBC News. https://www.nbcnews.com/news/us-news/amid-racial-reckoning-teachers-are-reconsidering-how-history-taught-n1235806 Siraj-Blatchford, I. (1993). Educational research and reform: Some implications for the professional identity of early years teachers. *British Journal of Educational Studies, 41*(4), 393–408. https://doi.org/10.1080/00071005.1993.9973975 Sleeter, C. E. (2016). Critical race theory and the whiteness of teacher education. *Urban Education, 52*(2), 155–169. https://doi.org/10.1177/0042085916668957 Smith, B. (2014). Confronting race and colonialism: Experiences and lessons learned from teaching social studies. *In Education, 20*(1). https://doi.org/10.37119/ojs2014.v20i1.124 Smith, W. L., & Crowley, R. M. (2014). Pushback and possibility: Using a threshold concept of race in social studies teacher education. *The Journal of Social Studies Research, 39*(1), 12-28. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jsrr.2014.05.004 Smith, W. L., & Crowley, R. M. (2018). Social studies needs (new) white people: The case for including allies in the curriculum. *The Social Studies, 109*(4), 202–214. https://doi.org/10.1080/00377996.2018.1515720 Smith-Sullivan, K. (2008). Diaries and journals. In L. M. Given (Ed.), *The SAGE encyclopedia of qualitative research methods* (pp. 213-215). SAGE Publications. State of Michigan. (n.d.). *Social justice and anti-racist resources*. Governor’s Educators Advisory Council. https://www.michigan.gov/documents/mde/GEAC_Resources_697529_7.pdf Stoskopf, A., & Bermudez, A. (2017). The sounds of silence: American history textbook representations of non-violence and the Abolition Movement. *Journal of Peace Education, 14*(1), 92–113. https://doi.org/10.1080/17400201.2016.1230543 Strauss, V. (2014, March 1). Why most professional development for teachers is useless. *The Washington Post*. https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/answersheet/wp/2014/03/01/why-most-professional-development-for-teachers-is-useless/ Suzuki, L. A., Muninder, K. A., Arora, A. K., & Mattis, J. S. (2007). The pond you fish in determines the fish you catch: Exploring strategies for qualitative data collection. *The Counseling Psychologist, 35*(2), 295–327. https://doi.org/10.1177/0011000006290983 Swartwood House, A. (2020, July 22). *The long history of how Jesus came to resemble a white European*. University of South Carolina. https://sc.edu/uofsc/posts/2020/07/conversation_white_jesus.php Tanner, S.J., (2016). Accounting for whiteness through collaborative fiction. *Research in Drama Education The Journal of Applied Theatre and Performance, 21*(2). 183-195.http://www.tandfonline.com/action/showCitFormats?doi=10.1080/13569783.2016.1155404 Tatum, B.D. (1992). Talking about race, learning about racism: The application of racial identity development theory in the classroom. *Harvard Educational Review, 62*(1), 1-25. https://doi.org/10.17763/haer.62.1.146k5v980r703023 Tatum, B. D. (2019). *Color blind or color conscious?* AASA, The School Superintendents Association. https://www.aasa.org/SchoolAdministratorArticle.aspx?id=14892 The Equity Literacy Institute, (2017). EdChange. https://www.equityliteracy.org/ The President’s Advisory 1776 Commission. (2021). *The 1776 Report*. Trump White House Archives. https://trumpwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefings-statements/1776-commission-takes-historic-scholarly-step-restore-understanding-greatness-american-founding/ Thornton, S. (2017). A concise historiography of the social studies. In M. Manfra & C. Mason Bolick (Eds.), *The Wiley handbook of social studies research* (pp. 3–39). Wiley-Blackwell. Thornton, S. J. (1989). *Aspiration and practice: Teacher as curricular-instructional gatekeeper in social studies*. http://files.eric.ed.gov/fulltext/ED315347.pdf Thornton, S. J. (2005). *Teaching social studies that matters: Curriculum for active learning*. Teachers College Press. Thornton, S. J. (2006). What matters most for gatekeeping? A response to Vansledright. *Theory & Research in Social Education, 34*(3), 416–418. https://doi.org/10.1080/00933104.2006.10473316 Tosolt, B. (2020). Dear white teacher: This Black history month, take a knee. *International Journal of Qualitative Studies in Education, 33*(7), 773–789. https://doi.org/10.1080/09518398.2019.1706198 Traverso, V. M. (2018, October 10). *The six oldest images of Jesus*. Aleteia. https://aleteia.org/2018/10/10/the-six-oldest-images-of-jesus/ Trump, D. (2020a.). *Remarks by President Trump at the White House Conference on American History*. The White House. https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefings-statements/remarks-president-trump-white-house-conference-american-history/ Trump, D. (2020b). *Executive order on establishing the President’s Advisory 1776 Commission*. The White House. https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/executive-order-establishing-presidents-advisory-1776-commission/ Turner, J. C., Christensen, A., & Meyer, D. K. (2009). Teachers’ beliefs about student learning and motivation. In L. J. Saha & A. G. Dworkin (Eds.), *International handbook of research on teachers and teaching* (pp. 361–371). Springer. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-0-387-73317-3_23 United States Census Bureau, (2017). *2017 national population projection tables: Main series*. https://www.census.gov/data/tables/2017/demo/popproj/2017-summary-tables.html. United States Census Bureau, (n.d.). *Quickfacts fact note: Race*. https://www.census.gov/quickfacts/fact/note/US/RHI625221 United States Census Bureau. (2019). *QuickFacts: United States*. https://www.census.gov/quickfacts/fact/table/US/PST045218 United States Congress, (2020, May 15). *Black history is American history act.* https://www.congress.gov/bill/116th-congress/house-bill/6902?q=%7B%22search%22%3A%5B%22S.+2311%22%5D%7D&s=1&r=28 United States Department of Education. (2019a). *National elementary and secondary enrollment by race/ethnicity projection model, 1972 through 2029*. National United States Department of Education. (2019b). *State nonfiscal survey of public elementary and secondary education, 2000–01 and 2017–18*. National Center Urban, W. J., & Wagoner, J. L., Jr. (2014). *American education: A history* (5th ed.). Routledge. Wagner, W., Kello, K., & Sakki, I. (2018). Politics, identity, and perspectives in history textbooks. In K. V. Nieuwenhuys & J. P. Valentim (Eds.), *The colonial past in history textbooks historical and social psychological perspectives* (pp. 31–50). Information Age Publishing. Walker, T. (2018, June 8). *Who is the average U.S. teacher?* National Education Association. http://neatoday.org/2018/06/08/who-is-the-average-u-s-teacher/ Walker, T. (2022, February 1). *Survey: Alarming number of educators may soon leave the profession*. NEA Today. https://www.nea.org/advocating-for-change/new-from-nea/survey-alarming-number-educators-may-soon-leave-profession Walters, A. (2020). Inequities in access to education: Lessons from the COVID-19 pandemic. *The Brown University Child & Adolescent Behavior Letter*, 36(8), 8. https://doi.org/10.1002/cbl.30483 Wandix-White, D. (2020). The impact of teacher-students (dis)connection on Black student and teacher identity development in U.S. schools. *Journal of Autoethnography*, 1(3), 234–251. https://doi.org/10.1525/joaec.2020.1.3.234 Ward, J. (2008). White normativity: The cultural dimensions of whiteness in a racially diverse LGBT organization. *Sociological Perspectives*, 51(3), 563–586. https://doi.org/10.1525/sop.2008.51.3.563 Warren, C. S. (2020, June 8). Unconscious racism. *Psychology Today*. https://www.psychologytoday.com/us/blog/naked-truth/202006/unconscious-racism Washington, S. (2018). Diversity in schools must include curriculum. *The Century Foundation*. https://tcf.org/content/commentary/diversity-schools-must-include-curriculum/?session=1 Waxman, O.B. (2022, June 30). *Anti-'critical race theory' laws are working. Teachers are thinking twice about how they talk about race*. Time. https://time.com/6192708/critical-race-theory-teachers-racism/ Wiggins, G.P., McTighe, J. (1998). *Understanding by design*. Association for Supervision and Curriculum Development. Williams, P.J., (2011). *Seeing a color-blind future: The paradox of race*. Macmillan. Wilson, C.T. (2021, October 8). *House bill 47: Public schools – expanded American history – development of content standards and implementation*. Maryland House Ways and Means Committee. https://mgaleg.maryland.gov/2022RS/bills/hb/hb0047f.pdf Wineburg, S. (2007). Unnatural and essential: The nature of historical thinking. *Teaching History, 129*, 6–11. Wineburg, S., & Martin, D. (2004). Reading and rewriting history. *Educational Leadership, 62*(1), 42–45. https://www.ascd.org/el/articles/reading-and-rewriting-history Wineburg, S., & Reisman, A. (2015). Disciplinary literacy in history: A toolkit for digital citizenship. *Journal of Adolescent & Adult Literacy, 58*(8), 636–639. https://doi.org/10.1002/jaal.410 Wingfield, A.H. (2015). *Why color blindness is counterproductive*. The Atlantic. https://www.theatlantic.com/politics/archive/2015/09/color-blindness-is-counterproductive/405037/ Woodson, C. G. (1999). *The mis-education of the Negro*. 12th Media Services. Original work published 1933. Worrell, F.C., Mendoza-Denton, R., Wang, A. (2017). Introducing a new assessment tool for measuring ethnic-racial identity: The cross ethnic-racial identity scale – Adult (CERIS-A). *Assessment 26*(3), 404-418. https://doi.org/10.1177/1073191117698756 Zinn Education Project. (2020, July 31). People’s history lessons for stamped: Racism, anti-racism, and you. https://www.zinnedproject.org/news/peoples-history-lessons-for-stamped/ Zinn Education Project. (n.d.). *The color line*. https://www.zinnedproject.org/materials/color-line-colonial-laws Zinn, H. (1980). *A people’s history of the United States*. Harper & Row. Zinn, H. (2008). *Zinn Education Project*. https://www.howardzinn.org/related-projects/zinn-education-project/ Appendix A The Eight White Identities Table 1.1 The 8 White Identities By Barror Hesse There is a regime of whiteness, and there are action-oriented white identities. People who identify with whiteness are one of these. It’s about time we build an ethnography of whiteness, since white people have been the ones writing about and governing Others. 1. **White Supremacist** - Believes in a white society that preserves, names, and valued white superiority 2. **White Nationalist** - Wouldn’t challenge a white supremacist; desires non-whiteness because it’s not as pleasurable; seeks to consume, to consume and appropriate non-whiteness; fascination with culture (ex: consuming Black culture to alleviate the burden of Blackness) 3. **White Privilege** - May critique supremacy, but a deep investment in questions of fairness and equality; a deep affection of whiteness and like white rule; sworn goal of ‘diversity’ 4. **White Benefactor** - Sympathetic to a set of issues but only privately; won’t speak/act in support of pursuing racial justice through whiteness in public (some POC are in this category as well) 5. **White Confessional** - Acknowledges the reality of whiteness takes place, but as a way of being accountable to POC after; seek validation from POC 6. **White Traitor** - Take on board critiques of whiteness and invest in exposing/marking the white traitor; refuses to be complicit with white supremacy; speaking but not acting 7. **White Traitor** - Refuses complicity; names what’s going on; intention is to subvert white authority and tell the truth at whatever cost; need them to dismantle institutions 8. **White Abolitionist** - Changing institutions, dismantling whiteness, and not allowing whiteness to reassert itself ## Appendix B ### Spectrum: From Non-Racist to Anti-Racist Advocate (Examples adapted from [Marlon James video](#) & Dr. Gordon Hodson’s article “Being Anti-Racist, Not Non-Racist” *Psychology Today*, 1/20/16) | Passive Non-Racist is: | Active Non-Racist is: | Ally behavior/action is: | Anti-Racist Advocacy is: | |------------------------|-----------------------|--------------------------|--------------------------| | **Individual:** | | | | | Being friendly & courteous to people of different backgrounds | Not participating in racist or derogatory remarks/humor in person or online | Expressing your surprise or disagreement; asking speaker for clarification; listening without interrupting when someone says to you “That’s racist” or “white people…” | Participating in talks/rallies/protests against injustice & state-sponsored police brutality | | **Communal:** | | | | | Valuing diversity in your community | Extending your home to people of different backgrounds | Living in a neighborhood with people who look different from you; being aware of the imbalance of power and pointing out racism & injustice; | Working to secure equity in your spheres of influence (home, workplace, schools, place of worship, city, etc.); Advocating for equitable distribution of power, resources & opportunities | | **Educational:** | | | | | Building awareness by educating self: reading & learning about racism, white privilege & power | Observing how privilege & racism are in action in your own life and community; talking to family about respecting differences | Evaluating how you contribute to systems of oppression and working to change that in your circles: where do you get your news? How do you include people who don’t look like you in your decision-making? Starting early in education by providing books on diversity to schools and supporting teachers who have culturally-responsive classrooms | Giving public attention to issues of inequity & injustice; advocating that kids in schools/activities are treated justly & have equitable opportunities for success; attending school board meetings & serving on community advisory boards | | **Systemic:** | | | | | Knowing who in power works toward racial justice | Signing online petitions or sharing with others information on Equity track record of companies, candidates & representatives | Building trust & relationships with others who can affect change on larger scale; challenging systemic racism when you experience unearned privileges | Campaigning for candidates who work for racial justice; using your spheres of influence to connect with larger groups & institutions to dismantle racism | Appendix C Racism Scale Racism Scale: Where do you fall? Feelings of White Guilt can lead to | Terrorism | Overt racism | Subconscious racism | Indifference | Defensive | Justification | Denial | |-----------|--------------|---------------------|--------------|-----------|---------------|-------| | I would/ have killed a black person simply for being black | Whites are the superior race | Blacks are naturally more violent less intelligent | I’m not racist but… | How am I privileged if I am poor? | If I just don’t talk about ‘ghettos’ | Racism no longer exists | | I justify fear upon black people “on purpose” | Blacks should be sent back to Africa | The way things are is God’s will | Things that has nothing to do with me | It’s just a joke | What about reverse racism? | Slavery ended 200 years ago | | I inflict fear upon black people “on a joke” | Whites are under attack/ will be murdered soon | That is their problem, not mine | But black on black crime! | If I had they had just… | I have black friends | | | and compound many of these behaviors | | White Savior | “Woke” justification | Performative Ally | Awareness | Allyship | Abolitionist | |--------------|----------------------|------------------|-----------|---------|-------------| | Whites were slaves too | There is only 1 Race, the human race. | I will help you, if I liked | Being involved in this will help my reputation | Systemic racism is very real and needs to be ended | I will make space for POC | | There are plenty of successful POC; they just need to work harder | There is no need for POC to have their own self-policing; we are all one | Love conquers all. | If they want our help they should be nice/respectful | Yes, my life as a poor white person has been hard but I live just as if I were poor AND a POC | I will put my safety, health & freedom on the line to fight for POC. I will let them know and just try to be at their side. | *Note: It is common for many people to move back and forth along the scale regularly, especially the middle parts ** The term “blacks” is used to be more familiar to anyone of those mentalities ***“Blacks” can be substituted with people of any nationality/ethnicity other than european white From “Racism Scale,” by Demnowicz, 2017. NOTICE OF APPROVAL FOR HUMAN RESEARCH DATE: August 04, 2021 TO: Johnson, Julie, Curriculum & Instruction Callahan, Cory, Curriculum and Instruction, Mantero, Miguel, Curriculum and Instruction FROM: Graham, Jeanelle, MPH, Research Compliance Specialist, NM Expedited PROTOCOL TITLE: Secondary Social Studies Teachers’ Racial Lens and its Influence on their Curricular Decision Making FUNDING SOURCE: NONE PROTOCOL NUMBER: 21-06-4707 APPROVAL PERIOD: Approval Date: August 04, 2021 Expiration Date: August 03, 2022 The Institutional Review Board (IRB) for the protection of human subjects has reviewed the protocol entitled: Secondary Social Studies Teachers’ Racial Lens and its Influence on their Curricular Decision Making. The project has been approved for the procedures and subjects described in the protocol. This protocol must be reviewed for renewal on a yearly basis for as long as the research remains active. Should the protocol not be renewed before expiration, all activities must cease until the protocol has been re-reviewed. If approval did not accompany a proposal when it was submitted to a sponsor, it is the PI’s responsibility to provide the sponsor with the approval notice. This approval is issued under University of Alabama’s Federal Wide Assurance 00004939 with the Office for Human Research Protections (OHRP). If you have any questions regarding your obligations under Committee’s Assurance, please do not hesitate to contact us. Please direct any questions about the IRB’s actions on this project to: Approval Period: August 04, 2021 through August 03, 2022 Review Type: FULLBOARD IRB Number: 03 November 16, 2021 Julie Muhlenfeld-Johnson, NBCT Graduate Assistant Department of Curriculum & Instruction College of Education The University of Alabama Box 870232 Re: IRB # 21-06-4707-A “Secondary Social Studies Teachers’ Racial Lens and its Influence on their Curricular Decision Making” Dear Dr. Johnson: The University of Alabama Institutional Review Board has reviewed the revision to your previously approved expedited protocol. The board has approved the change in your protocol. Please remember that your protocol will expire on August 3, 2022. Should you need to submit any further correspondence regarding this proposal, please include the assigned IRB application number. Changes in this study cannot be initiated without IRB approval, except when necessary to eliminate apparent immediate hazards to participants. Good luck with your research. Selection Process for Research Study on 6-12 Social Studies and Racial Lens’ Impact on Curricular Decision Making Principal Investigator: Julie Muhlenfeld-Johnson The University of Alabama Thank you for your interest in participating in this research study. As a part of the selection process for participants, please complete the following form. You will be contacted by the principal investigator shortly regarding if you were selected as a participant or not. Name: ____________________________ School/Location: ____________________________ To ensure your anonymity and confidentiality, and in compliance with IRB requirements and protocol, I will be using a pseudonym for you. I will also not be naming your school or city and will create generic identifiers. To allow you maximum comfort and freedom, please choose a first name pseudonym for yourself. You may leave it blank if you do not have a preference. ____________________________ | Course Name | Grade | # of Students | Content Topics | |-------------|-------|---------------|----------------| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | How did you acquire this curriculum? I created it myself I created it with my department/colleagues This study’s purpose is to examine how teacher’s learned about race and how their experience may or may not have impacted their views of race and curricular choices in their classrooms. As such, it is vital for the integrity of the study that all participants answer honestly and candidly, remembering that their responses will be written under a pseudonym and the results will inform teachers, teacher educators and policy makers. Please indicate on the Likert Scale below the response that best applies to you. I am open with my opinions 0-----------------1----------------2----------------3----------------4----------------5 Highly Disagree Highly Agree I am concerned with offending people I don’t know 0-----------------1----------------2----------------3----------------4----------------5 Highly Disagree Highly Agree I am direct 0-----------------1----------------2----------------3----------------4----------------5 Highly Disagree Highly Agree I know how I feel about controversial topics 0-----------------1----------------2----------------3----------------4----------------5 Highly Disagree Highly Agree I prefer not to share my thoughts with adults on controversial topics 0-----------------1----------------2----------------3----------------4----------------5 Highly Disagree Highly Agree I have been told I can be combative, defensive, or easily offended 0-----------------1----------------2----------------3----------------4----------------5 Highly Disagree Highly Agree This form is also found on Qualtrics XM using the QR code below: QR Code Scan this QR Code to preview your survey on your own device. Close Appendix F Informed Consent Informed Consent Please read this informed consent carefully before deciding to participate in the study. Consent Form Key Information: - Participate in 3 60-120 minute interviews about experiences and understanding of teaching social studies - Interviews will be conducted in-person or via Zoom, depending on location, level of COVID protocols - Take 1 questionnaire and 1 survey regarding experiences in learning/teaching social studies - Respond to a submit journal prompts given by research - No information collected that will connect identity with responses Purpose of the research study: The purpose of the study is to gain understanding of the participant’s experiences in teaching social studies. The Researcher specifically is examining how the participant’s racial lens and how the participant see the world in relation to the participant’s race may impact the curricular choices the participant make in the classroom. The researcher will investigate the participant’s interpretations, findings, opinions, and conclusions in regards to race, racism, bias, privilege and how the participant understands it to affect the participant’s decision-making process. The researcher is seeking to understand not only the participant’s experiences in teaching social studies, but also the participant’s implementation of race within the participant’s curriculum. What the participant will do in the study: After applying to be a participant for this study, the participant will be sent a selection Process survey via Quatrics XM that will narrow down participant selection for the researcher. The participant has been selected based on technological availability, personal location, willingness to answer honestly and candidly, and the participant’s availability to interview. After obtaining consent and presenting the protocols and expectations of the study, the participant and researcher will schedule dates for interviews. If an in-person interview is not possible (due to location or COVID), or if the participant prefers, a Zoom interview will take place. Once the interviews are scheduled, the Principle Investigator will email the participant a Quatrics XM link to a questionnaire regarding the participant’s understandings and experiences with teaching. The participant is free to skip any questions that make the participant uncomfortable, but please try to answer as completely as possible for the ones the participant is comfortable with. The 60-120 minute recorded interviews will follow a semi-structured interview protocol. After interviews are completed, coding and data analysis will occur. The researcher will assign the participant, or the participant may choose, a pseudonym to ensure the participant’s anonymity. After all the data has been analyzed, the researcher will write up the final report. **Time required:** The study will require a minimum of 10 hours of the participant’s time over the course of the fall 2021 semester. The questionnaire and survey are estimated to take up to 30 minutes each. Each of the three interviews will take no longer than 120 minutes. Journal prompts will take approximately 20 minutes each to respond to, and other work for the study such as submitting curriculum will take the remaining time. **Risks:** This study is considered to be minimal risk to the participants. If at any time the participant become uncomfortable disclosing information, the participant is encouraged to notify the researcher and request the study to stop, which it will. Because the nature of the study is to learn more about the participant’s interpretations and experiences with race and the curriculum, the extent of detail is to the participant’s discretion. **Benefits:** A direct benefit to the participant upon completion of the data collection process is a $200 Amazon gift card. This gift card will be emailed to the participant upon completion of the data collection. The study may potentially be shared in the field of education, in particular, social studies education, in order to gain greater understanding of teachers’ experiences. **Confidentiality:** Participants will be assigned a pseudonym in order to maintain their anonymity and their location will be generalized; coded data will be used and master list of study codes will be kept separately from the data to ensure participant anonymity. Electronic data gathered will be stored on a password-accessible file, will be coded, with a master list kept separately, and will be collected under a secured network. Hardcopy data will be kept in a locked office and will be coded, with the master list secured and kept confidential. For heightened security, the researcher will utilize UA Box in order to ensure a secure, cloud-based system of storage. All data are encrypted. **Data linked with identifying information:** The information that the participant gives in the study will be handled confidentially. The participant’s information will be assigned a code number. The list connecting the participant’s name to this code will be kept in a locked file. When the study is completed, and the data have been analyzed, this list will be destroyed. The participant’s name will not be used in any report. Recordings of interviews will be destroyed after the study is completed. Data not linked to identifying information: The information that the participant gives in the study will be handled confidentially. The participant’s name and other information that could be used to identify the participant will not be collected or linked to the data. Confidentiality cannot be guaranteed: Because of the nature recordings via Zoom, the researcher cannot guarantee the participant’s data will be confidential and it may be possible that others will know what the participant has reported. The researcher is not able to ensure confidentiality because she cannot be present on the participant’s end to be sure there is no one else present in the room or within listening distance. The researcher encourages the use of earphones, and will herself utilize earphones to heighten her ability to ensure confidentiality on her end. Voluntary participation: The participant’s participation in the study is completely voluntary. Right to withdraw from the study: The participant has the right to withdraw from the study at any time without penalty. If the participant chooses to withdraw from the study, the participant’s recordings and data will be destroyed. How to withdraw from the study: If the participant choose to withdraw from the study, the researcher will require written notification (email is acceptable) or the participant may verbally request the researcher to stop the interview. There is no penalty for withdrawing, though compensation is reserved until the data collection is complete. Compensation/Reimbursement: Compensation is being offered upon the completion of the data gathering. The compensation is a $200 Amazon gift card emailed to an account of the participant’s choosing. Using data beyond this study: The researcher would like to make the information collected in this study available to other researchers after the study is completed. The participant’s information will be stored, used and shared for future research studies, including but not limited to continued research on racial lens and decision-making in social studies or other content fields. Once the research is completed and written up, the researcher may use the study in relation to future studies, still utilizing all the anonymity that was utilized in this current study. The researcher does not need to inform and obtain consent from participants when referring or using this study in future studies or publications. Additionally, researchers of future studies will not ask the participant’s permission for each new study or publication. However, the information the participant provide will be combined with the information provided by others to create a large data set. The participant’s name and other information that could potentially identify the participant will not be connected to the information shared with other researchers nor will they attempt to identify the participant. If the participant have questions about the study or need to report a study related issue please contact, contact: Name of Principal Investigator: Julie Johnson Title: Doctoral Candidate Department Name: Curriculum and Instruction Telephone: 847 309-8884 Email address: email@example.com Faculty Advisor’s Name: Cory Callahan Department Name: Curriculum and Instruction Telephone: 205-348-9272 Email address: firstname.lastname@example.org If the participant have questions about the participant’s rights as a participant in a research study, would like to make suggestions or file complaints and concerns about the research study, please contact: Ms. Tanta Myles, the University of Alabama Research Compliance Officer at (205)-348-8461 or toll-free at 1-877-820-3066. The participant may also ask questions, make suggestions, or file complaints and concerns through the IRB Outreach Website at http://ovpred.ua.edu/research-compliance/prco/. The participant may email the Office for Research Compliance at email@example.com. Agreement: ☐ I agree to participate in the research study described above. ☐ I do not agree to participate in the research study described above. ☐ I agree to recording (video, audio, photograph) in the research study described above. ☐ I do not agree to recording (video, audio, photograph) in the research study described above. ☐ I consent to the use of the collected data to be published in journals, articles and studies, both currently and in the future ☐ I do not consent to the use of the collected data to be published in journals, articles and studies, both currently and in the future _________________________________________ _______________________ Signature of Research Participant Date _________________________________________ Print Name of Research Participant _________________________________________ _______________________ Signature of Investigator or other Person Obtaining Consent Date _________________________________________ Print Name of Investigator or other Person Obtaining Consent Appendix G Questionnaire Participant (please list your pseudonym if known): ____________________________ Preferred pronouns: _______________________________________________________ Race(s): _________________________________________________________________ Age: ____________________________________________________________________ # of Years Teaching Social Studies __________________________________________ # of Years at Current School _________________________________________________ Geographic Location ______________________________________________________ Please circle all that apply to describe your current school: Rural Suburban Urban Private Public Charter/Magnet Socio-Economic Status: generally upper-class generally middle class Title 1 Total Student Population: 0-500 501-1000 1001-1500 1500+ Total Faculty Population: 1-10 11-20 21-30 31+ Total Department Population 1-5 6-10 11-15 16+ Ethnic Make-Up (approximate): ____% Asian ____% Black ____% Latine ____% Indigenous ____% other ____% white Where/when did you receive your teaching certificate? __________________________________________ Year: ________ Please complete the following: | Degree/Major | Institution | Year | |--------------|-------------|------| | | | | Are you a National Board Certified Teacher? If yes, please give year of certification and area: Please complete the following chart for current courses you are teaching | Course Name | When is this class taught? (specify day/time) | Approach (thematic, chronologic, blended, geographic, etc.) | Grade Level | Number of students (total in all sections) | Elective? | |-------------|-----------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------|------------|-------------------------------------------|----------| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Please circle all that apply Classroom autonomy - I have complete autonomy and work independently - I collaborate with a co-teacher/colleagues - I collaborate with a department - I am accountable to my department head - I am heavily monitored Curricular decision making - I make every content choice for my class and design my curriculum - I collaborate with colleagues to design curriculum and choose resources - I am told by my district/department what to teach in my classroom Assessments I design my own assessments I work with colleagues to develop common assessments I use departmental/district assessments Your personal learning experiences: | Please list the region/state where you attended and the type of school (rural/suburban/ urban) | Assumed/known race of your social studies instructors | |---|---| | Junior High | 6<sup>th</sup> 7<sup>th</sup> 8<sup>th</sup> | | High School | 9<sup>th</sup> 10<sup>th</sup> 11<sup>th</sup> 12<sup>th</sup> | | Undergraduate | U.S. History courses World History courses Other courses relating to history/social studies | | Graduate | U.S. History courses World History courses Other courses relating to history/social studies | | Other (formal experiences that taught you about history) | | This form is also found on Qualtrics XM using the QR code below. QR Code Scan this QR Code to preview your survey on your own device. Dear Applicant, Thank you for your interest in participating in the study titled “Secondary Social Studies Teachers’ Racial Lens and Its Impact on Curricular Decision Making” by Julie Johnson. I appreciate the time, effort and interest you have invested thus far. However, according to the participant qualifications for this study, I regret to inform you that you have not been selected to participate in this study. I encourage you to continue looking for research studies wherein you may be qualified and your experience would give insight and knowledge to the field. If you have any questions, please contact me. I wish you the best of luck as you proceed through your career. Sincerely, Julie Johnson Doctoral Candidate The University of Alabama firstname.lastname@example.org Appendix I First Interview Protocol Background and Personal Social Studies Education 1. Please describe what learning social studies was like for you in middle school (6-8)? 2. How did social studies impact you at that age? What do you remember standing out? 3. Please describe what learning social studies was like for you in high school. How did you feel about your classes? Your teachers? 4. What impact did social studies have on you then? 5. What was the nature of your learning about various racial groups? 6. Do you feel your teachers spent more time, less time, or about the same describing historical events as they pertained to white people versus how they pertained to People of Color? a. Please describe if People of Color were included when you learned about traditionally non-racial topics like World War 1 or The Great Depression. b. Please explain if feel your own race was represented enough when you learned social studies in 6-12 grade? 7. When you took history courses in college, did you find the experience and learning content in regard to race was very similar, very different, or pretty much the same as it was in 6-12? Please describe. 8. Did you get a sense that any of your teachers had any of their own racial bias? Please describe. 9. Did any of your social studies educators present a particular racial view when teaching American history? Did it seem like you learned more about one race than another? Appendix J Second Interview Protocol Racial Lens and World View Personal Experiences with Race 1. Please describe your understanding of your own race and how you view it in society/the world. 2. What are some common stereotypes you have heard regarding your race? Do you find these stereotypes to be largely true or untrue? Do they apply to you? 3. Describe any experiences with discrimination against you because of your race. 4. What is your opinion on how people of your race view those outside your race? 5. Describe your __________ relationships with people outside your race. (Personal, professional, Interactions with strangers) 6. Generally speaking, how do you regard your own views on peoples of other races? How would you describe the way you see peoples outside your race? Opinions on Dominant vs. Non-Dominant Culture 7. The past few years within the U.S. has revealed a racial polarization some didn’t realize existed before. What have been your reactions to the racial strife that has occurred in the last 5 years? 8. There has been an increased call for people of the dominant white race to acknowledge the oppression inflicted upon People of Color and non-dominant cultures. Do you believe these calls are appropriate? 9. Please respond to the following words and phrases with any thoughts or knowledge you have on them: a. White fragility b. White privilege c. Critical race theory d. Confederate monuments e. All lives matter Journal Prompts 10. Please discuss with me your experience with the documents from the journal prompts. a. Race Forward b. Invisible Knapsack c. Race IAT d. Racial Lens Scales 11. The initial two and concluding two journal prompts are identical. I’d like to compare and contrast them. a. In regard to journal questions 1 & 11 (*To what extent do you believe you include varying races in your curriculum? Please discuss how and why you choose to include race within your lessons*), please describe any variation you have experienced between the two responses you recorded. b. In regard to journal questions 2 & 12 (*Please describe how you view yourself in regard to race and racism. Do you see your own racial identity as oppressed, oppressive, or neutral? Do you try to be colorblind? Would you describe yourself as not racist, antiracist, or having bias toward certain races? How comfortable are your interactions with people not within your race? How frequently do they occur?*) please describe any variation you have experienced between the two responses you recorded. 12. What do you believe contributed to the variations you’ve observed in your answers? a. at the beginning of the journaling versus at the end? 13. Have you learned anything else about yourself throughout the course of this exercise? Appendix K Project Implicit Race IAT Samples Race (‘Black’ ‘White’ IAT). This IAT requires the ability to distinguish faces of European and African origin. It indicates that most Americans have an automatic preference for white over black. Gender – Career. This IAT often reveals a relative link between family and females and between Sexuality (‘Gay’ ‘Straight’ IAT). This IAT requires the ability to distinguish words and symbols representing gay and straight people. It often reveals an automatic preference for straight relative to gay people. Disability (‘Disabled’ ‘Abled’ IAT). This IAT requires the ability to recognize symbols representing able-bodied and disabled individuals. Age (‘Young’ ‘Old’ IAT). This IAT requires the ability to distinguish old from young faces. This test often indicates that Americans have automatic preference for young over old. Religion (‘Religious’ IAT). This IAT requires some familiarity with religious terms from various world religions. Asian American (‘Asian’ ‘European American’ IAT). This IAT requires the ability to recognize White and Asian American faces, and images of places that are either American or Foreign in origin. Skin-tone (‘Light Skin’ ‘Dark Skin’ IAT). This IAT requires the ability to recognize light and dark-skinned faces. It often reveals an automatic preference for light-skin relative to dark-skin. Gender – Science. This IAT often reveals a relative link between liberal arts and females and between Appendix L Third Interview Protocol Interview 3a Curricular Decision-Making 1. Please describe your process when you sit down to plan a unit. 2. I’m going to mention a few generic units or topics, and I’d like to you to give me a yes or no if you think of examples of non-white people/topics/resources that you have included in your curriculum and teaching. a. 13 Colonies b. American Revolution c. The Industrial Age/Turn of the 20th Century d. Progressivism & Imperialism e. WWI f. The Great Depression g. The Cold War h. Modern America (post 1990s) 3. When planning a unit or lesson, to what extent do you consider how race will be incorporated into it, if at all? 4. Which particular race or races do you tend to gravitate towards when using contextual examples in history? Please describe. 5. There are six categories of race the U.S Census Bureau uses to classify people in the U.S. – Asian, Black, Indigenous/Alaskan Native, Latine, Pacific Islander/Native Hawaiian, and white. Do you feel various races are equally represented in your lessons? Explain. Do you think they should be? Explain? 6. How might having racial representation in their learning affect your students’ comprehension and interest in the content? 7. I’m going to give you a series of phrases, and I’d like to know your first response/reaction to them – even if you are unaware of their meaning, it’s ok to say that. a. Whitewash b. Racial Consciousness c. Gatekeeping d. Antiracism e. White social studies 8. How does reflecting on whiteness in social studies impact your future curricular decisions, if at all? 9. When planning your units, what aspects do you most take into account when deciding what you should teach and what should be omitted? 10. What hinderances/roadblocks exist in your situation that may prevent you from teaching what or how you want, if any? 11. Social studies by nature is a subject wherein students are able to explore their positions on topics pertaining to their everyday lives. To what degree, if at all, do you disclose your political, personal, and social ideology to your students? Explain. 1. What were your first encounters with the term *antiracist*? 2. Please describe, if you can, the difference between antiracist and not racist. Or if there isn’t any, you can say that too. 3. To your recollection, did any of your educators ever demonstrate antiracist curricula, lessons, or thinking, even if it wasn’t called that at the time? Please describe how. 4. Did you receive any training or information in college or your teacher education program about antiracism? 5. Have you read books, studies, listened to podcasts, or had personal experiences with antiracism as a subject? Please describe. Did these impact you? How? 6. Have you ever received professional development on antiracism or racism awareness? Please explain. 7. Are you familiar with *The 1619 Project* or the *1776 Commission*? What are your impressions of these? 8. Have you intentionally included any antiracist curriculum in your lessons? a. If so, please describe. b. If not, do you feel professionally prepared to implement antiracist curriculum if you were asked to do so in the coming weeks? 9. Do you believe antiracism should be incorporated in social studies curriculum at a district, state, or national level if at all? Why or why not? 10. What were your first encounters with the term *anti-racist*? 11. Please describe if you can the difference between *anti-racist* and *not racist*. 12. To your recollection, did any of your educators ever demonstrate anti-racist curriculum, lessons, or thinking? 13. Did you receive any training or information in college and/or your teacher education program regarding anti-racism? 14. Have you read books, studies, or had individual experiences with anti-racism as a subject? Please describe. 15. Have you ever been given any professional development on anti-racism or racism-awareness? Please explain. 16. Have you intentionally included any anti-racist curriculum in your lessons? a. If so, please describe. b. If not, do you feel professionally prepared to implement anti-racist curriculum in your curriculum? Appendix M Journal Prompt Samples Initial Prompts 1. To what extent do you believe you include varying races in your curriculum? Please discuss how and why you choose to include race within your lessons. 2. Please describe how you view yourself in regard to race and racism. Do you see your own racial identity as being oppressed, oppressive, or neutral? Do you try to be colorblind? Would you describe yourself as not-racist, anti-racist, or having bias towards certain races? When it comes to people not within your race, how comfortable are your interactions? How frequent are they? Race Forward Prior to being given the document: 3. Describe your knowledge of race in regard to the generation of students you teach. What do you know about the students in general and their opinions/experiences/thoughts on race and racism? After reading the document 4. Please describe any new information you discovered from the Race Forward Information. Invisible Knapsack Prior to being given the document: 5. What is your experience with the term “white privilege”? What do you know about it? What thoughts come to mind? What are your opinions about the term privilege? After reading the document 6. Please describe any new information you discovered or emotional responses you had from the McIntosh essay. Race IAT Prior to being given the website link 7. Remembering that your responses are anonymous, please describe if you feel you have any racial bias or racist ideals. After taking the Race IAT 8. Please describe the outcome/results you received from the Race IAT. What is your reaction? Do you agree with the results? **Racial Lens Scales** 9. What is your response to reviewing these scales? Knowing that these scales have not been scientifically validated, do you believe people can use these scales to measure themselves? 10. When considering where you would plot yourself on these scales, what is your emotional reaction to where you fall? Are you surprised? **Concluding Prompts** 11. To what extent do you believe you include varying races in your curriculum? Please discuss how and why you choose to include race within your lessons. 12. Please describe how you view yourself in regard to race and racism. Do you see your own racial identity as being oppressed, oppressive, or neutral? Do you try to be colorblind? Would you describe yourself as not-racist, anti-racist, or having bias towards certain races? When it comes to people not within your race, how comfortable are your interactions? How frequent are they? 1. I can if I wish arrange to be in the company of people of my race most of the time. 2. If I should need to move, I can be pretty sure of renting or purchasing housing in an area which I can afford and in which I want to live. 3. I can be pretty sure that my neighbors in such a location will be neutral or pleasant to me. 4. I can go shopping alone most of the time, pretty well assured that I will not be followed or harassed. 5. I can turn on the television or open to the front page of the paper and see people of my race widely represented. 6. When I am told about our national heritage or about “civilization,” I am shown that people of my color made it what it is. 7. I can be sure that my children will be given curricular materials that testify to the existence of their race. 8. If I want to, I can be pretty sure of finding a publisher for this piece on white privilege. 9. I can go into a music shop and count on finding the music of my race represented, into a supermarket and find the staple foods which fit with my cultural traditions, into a hairdresser’s shop and find someone who can cut my hair. 10. Whether I use checks, credit cards, or cash, I can count on my skin color not to work against the appearance of financial reliability. 11. I can arrange to protect my children most of the time from people who might not like them. 12. I can wear, or dress in secondhand clothes, or not answer letters, without having people attribute these choices to the bad morals, the poverty, or the illiteracy of my race. 13. I can speak in public to a powerful male group without putting my race on trial. 14. I can do well in a challenging situation without being called a credit to my race. 15. I am never asked to speak for all the people of my racial group. 16. I can remain oblivious of the language and customs of persons of color who constitute the world’s majority without feeling in my culture any penalty for such oblivion. 17. I can criticize our government and talk about how much I fear its policies and behavior without being seen as a cultural outsider. 18. I can be pretty sure that if I ask to talk to “the person in charge,” I will be facing a person of my race. 19. If a traffic cop pulls me over or if the IRS audits my tax return, I can be sure I haven’t been singled out because of my race. 20. I can easily buy posters, postcards, picture books, greeting cards, dolls, toys, and children’s magazines featuring people of my race. 21. I can go home from most meetings of organizations I belong to feeling somewhat tied in, rather than isolated, out-of-place, outnumbered, unheard, held at a distance, or feared. 22. I can take a job with an affirmative action employer without having co-workers on the job suspect that I got it because of race. 23. I can choose public accommodation without fearing that people of my race cannot get in or will be mistreated in the places I have chosen. 24. I can be sure that if I need legal or medical help, my race will not work against me. 25. If my day, week, or year is going badly, I need not ask of each negative episode or situation whether it has racial overtones. 26. I can choose blemish cover or bandages in “flesh” color and have them more or less match my skin. ISSUE-SPECIFIC TIPS: CHANGING DEMOGRAPHICS & MILLENNIALS • Familiarize yourself with changing racial and ethnic demographics in the geographic areas you’re covering, and report with them in mind. • By 2044, the United States is projected to be a plurality nation, as no race or ethnic group is projected to have greater than a 50 percent share of the nation’s total. • Beware of using terms like “majority-minority” as they do not give a nuanced or accurate picture of the demographic changes occurring in a particular community. Instead describe the change, with figures and a sense of how things have changed over time and why. • The “Millennial Generation” (born 1981-1993) is the largest, most racially and ethnically diverse generation the U.S. has ever known. • The fastest growing racial groups are “Two or More Races,” (expected to triple in size by 2060), Asian population, and Hispanic population (expected to comprise 29% of the United States population by 2060). • More than half the growth in total population of the U.S. between 2000 and 2010 was due to the increase in the Hispanic population. (continued on following page) • There were 11.2 million unauthorized immigrants in the U.S. as of 2012. • In 2014, 13.3% of the U.S. population was foreign-born, with a rate of growth expected to account for an increasing share of the total population, reaching 19 percent in 2060. • The federal government is considering allowing those of Middle Eastern and North African descent (MENA) to identify as such on 2020 Census (previously classified as White by default). ONLINE RESOURCES See Race Forward’s reports on Millennials http://raceforward.org/millennials SOURCES https://www.census.gov/content/dam/Census/library/publications/2015/demo/p25-1143.pdf http://www.census.gov/prod/cen2010/briefs/c2010br-04.pdf http://www.pewresearch.org/key-data-points/immigration/ Four Dimensions of Racism, from Race Forward Trainings: **INDIVIDUAL-LEVEL RACISM** | INTERNALIZED RACISM | INTERPERSONAL RACISM | |---------------------|-----------------------| | The private racial beliefs held by individuals. | How we act upon our racial beliefs when we interact with others. | | EXAMPLE: Prejudice, internalized oppression and internalized privilege | EXAMPLE: Bias, bigotry, hate speech and violence | **SYSTEMIC-LEVEL RACISM** | INSTITUTIONAL RACISM | STRUCTURAL RACISM | |----------------------|--------------------| | Racial inequities within institutions and systems of power. | Racial bias across institutions and society. | | EXAMPLE: School systems that provide unequal opportunities for people of different races | EXAMPLE: The racial wealth gap reflects the cumulative effects of racial inequities. | **ONLINE RESOURCES** See Race Forward’s Racial Equity Impact Assessment Toolkit http://raceforward.org/racial-equity-impact-assessment-toolkit Appendix O Criteria for Curriculum Analysis Criteria: - Must be actual curricular documents you utilize - Minimum 1 document from each unit - PDF or Microsoft Word files only - Please include your pseudonym, date, and the unit somewhere on the document Types of documents to submit: Preferred Acceptable Unit overview Rubrics Lesson plan Readings that are significant Assignment Sheet Media resources Assessments Activity sheet Webquests Suggested Time Frames: Pre-colonial Americas WWI, WWII Colonization and American Revolution The Great Depression/New Deal 1800s and Expansion The American Dream (1950s) Turn of the Century Recent history (1980-today) It is ideal you select the best representation of your curricular resources that reflect multi-cultural perspectives, critical thinking, diversity, and equity. However, if your documents do not contain these things, that’s ok! Just send your best samples most representative of your chosen curriculum. ## Appendix P ### Rubric for Curriculum Analysis | Criteria | Beginning – 1 | Emerging – 2 | Progressing – 3 | Excelling - 4 | |--------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------| | Diversity | Race is not a factor or topic in this document | 1 racial group is represented in the document | 2 racial groups are represented in the document | 3 or more racial groups are represented in the document | | Equity | white people are only present in the document | BIPOC are present in the document | BIPOC are present and discussion of their oppression is present | BIPOC are highlighted as a focus in the document, giving specific indication of how they have been oppressed | | Critical Lens| The document does not require critical thinking | The document asks students to think critically but not about varying racial populations | The document alludes to critical examination of various perspectives of different populations | The document requires that students critically consider the multiple perspectives of various populations | | Impact | The document does not give evidence of one or two of the following: impactfulness, relevance, or effectiveness | The document somewhat reflects impactful, relevant, and effective approaches toward racial diversity | The document reflects a somewhat impactful, relevant and effective approach towards racial diversity | The document reflects highly impactful, relevant, and effective approach towards racial diversity | 6-12 SS Teacher Survey Start of Block: Informed Consent Q1 Informed Consent for Survey Please read this consent form carefully before you decide to participate in the survey. Key Information: • Total time commitment: about 10 minutes • Participate in a survey to inform the field about how teachers include race in their content and pedagogy • Take 1 survey per person • No information collected will connect the identity with the responses • Participation is voluntary Purpose of the research study: The purpose of the study is to gain understanding of the participant’s experiences in teaching social studies. Specifically, the researcher is examining how the participant’s racial lens and how the participant see the world in relation to the participant’s race may impact the curricular choices the participant make in the classroom. The researcher is seeking to understand not only the participant’s experiences in teaching social studies, but also the participant’s implementation of race within the participant’s curriculum. What you will do in the study: The participant will complete an anonymous ~10 minute survey via Qualtrics XM based on their current teaching experience. Time required: The survey will require about 10 minutes of your time. Risks: There are no anticipated in this study. Benefits: There are no direct benefits to you for participating in this research study. The study may inform the field to understand how social studies teachers perceive and teach race, and how they may or may not incorporate it into their curricula. Confidentiality: The information that you give in the study will be handled confidentially. Your name and other information that could be used to identify you will not be collected or linked to the data. Email addresses collected are only for clarification for the researcher and will not be published or shared. Voluntary Participation: Your participation in the study is completely voluntary. Right to withdraw from the study: You have the right to withdraw from the study at any time without penalty. How to withdraw from the study: To withdraw from the study, you may stop the survey at any time. There is no penalty for withdrawing. Compensation/Reimbursement: You will receive no payment for participating in the study. Using data beyond this study: The researcher would like to make the information collected in this study available to other researchers after the study is completed. The participant’s information will be stored, used and shared for future research studies, including but not limited to continued research on racial lens and decision-making in social studies or other content fields. Once the research is completed and written up, the researcher may use the study in relation to future studies, still utilizing all the anonymity that was utilized in this current study. The researcher does not need to inform and obtain consent from participants when referring or using this study in future studies or publications. Additionally, researchers of future studies will not ask the participant’s permission for each new study or publication. However, the information the participant provide will be combined with the information provided by others to create a large data set. The participant’s name and other information that could potentially identify the participant will not be connected to the information shared with other researchers nor will they attempt to identify the participant. If you have any questions about the study or need to report a study-related issue, please contact: Name of Principal Investigator: Julie Muhlenfeld-Johnson, NBCT If you have questions about your rights as a participant in a research study, would like to make suggestions or file complaints and concerns about the research study, please contact: Ms. Tanta Myles, the University of Alabama Research Compliance Officer at (205)-348-8461 or toll-free at 1-877-820-3066. You may also ask questions, make suggestions, or file complaints and concerns through the IRB Outreach Website at http://ovpred.ua.edu/research-compliance/prco/. You may email the Office for Research Compliance at email@example.com. JULIE MUHLENFELD-JOHNSON 10-1-21 Signature of Principal Investigator and Person Obtaining Consent Julie Muhlenfeld-Johnson Printed Name of Principal Investigator and Person Obtaining Consent **Please note: if you do not consent, you should not continue with this survey and your answers will be deleted. ☐ I give my consent ☐ I do not consent Q2 Provide an email address. This will not be used for any reason other than for the researcher to contact you if any problems arise. __________________________________________ Q3 What is your sex? - Female - Male - Both - Non-Binary - other ________________________________ Q4 What is your racial identity? - Asian/Asian-American - Black/African-American - Indigenous - Latinx - Native Hawaiian/Pacific Islander - white - bi-racial (please specify) ________________________________ - multi-racial (please specify) ________________________________ 5 What is your age range? - 20-29 - 30-39 - 40-49 - 50-59 - 60-69 - 70+ Q6 How long have you been teaching 6-12 social studies? - 0-5 years - 6-10 years - 11-15 years - 16-20 years - 21-25 years - 26-30 years - 31+ years Q7 What is the highest degree you have obtained? - Bachelors - Masters - Doctoral - other ____________________________ Q8 Are you National Board Certified? If so, please indicate the year of your initial certification. ☐ Yes ________________________________ ☐ No ☐ Current Applicant ☐ Unsure Q9 Please select the answer that best describes the region of the school in which you currently work. ☐ East/Northeast ☐ Midwest ☐ South ☐ West Q10 Please select the answer that best describes the school in which you currently work. ☐ Urban ☐ Suburban ☐ Rural Q11 Please select the answer that best describes the school in which you currently work. ☐ Public ☐ Private ☐ Magnet or Charter ☐ Specialized (IB, boarding, academy, etc…) ____________________________ Q12 Give an approximate of the size of your school's student body. - 0-500 - 501-1000 - 1001-1500 - 1501-2000 - 2001-2500 - 2500+ Q13 Give your best guess as to the percentages of each racial demographic of your school's student body. | Demographic | Percentage | |---------------------------|------------| | Asian/Asian-American | 40 | | Black/African-American | 40 | | Indigenous | 40 | | Latinx | 40 | | Native Hawaiian/Pacific Islander | 40 | | white | 40 | Q14 Was your 6-12 education entirely in the United States? - Yes - No Q15 Of your own 6-12 social studies teachers, how many were white? - 0 - 1 - 2 - 3 - 4 - 5+ Q16 Of your own 6-12 social studies teachers, how many were NOT white? - 0 - 1 - 2 - 3 - 4 - 5+ End of Block: Biographical Data Start of Block: Personal Beliefs Q17 Do you believe 6-12 social studies teachers, their lessons and their curriculum impact the development of students' beliefs on race? - Definitely not - Probably not - Probably yes - Definitely yes Q18 HOW YOU SEE RACE: Remembering that this survey is anonymous, of the options below, select which statements best describe your personal outlook on race. ☐ I try not to see color ☐ I'm not racist but..... ☐ I am not personally close with many/any People of Color ☐ I refuse to comply with racism and look to speak the truth to dismantle racist institutions ☐ Slavery ended a long time ago; I had nothing to do with it ☐ I believe being white in the United States is easier than being a Person of Color ☐ I believe white people are superior to other racial demographics ☐ I think People of Color have had it rough but I've never participated in a demonstration or spoken up publicly for them ☐ I am actively involved in changing institutional racism and dismantle white oppression ☐ I am disheartened that white people have benefited over People of Color and I'd like to hear from those affected how I can best help ☐ I enjoy the music, sports and/or culture of non-white people but I don't have People of Color in my life personally ☐ I acknowledge whiteness has been oppressive but there's not much I can do about it ☐ I acknowledge whiteness has been oppressive and look for ways to expose it Q19 To the best of your ability, select the one with which you self-identify. ☐ Antiracist ☐ Ally ☐ Not Racist ☐ I've got some racist thoughts ☐ I've spoken/acted out my racist thoughts ☐ I fully acknowledge I am a racist ☐ Other ________________________________ Q20 On the political/ideological spectrum, where do you identify yourself? ☐ far-left; liberal ☐ moderate left; liberal ☐ moderate ☐ moderate right; conservative ☐ far-right; conservative ☐ unsure (please explain) ________________________________ Q21 Do you now, or have you ever, taught Critical Race Theory in your classes? - I use Critical Race Theory currently - I include the concepts and lessons of Critical Race Theory, but I don't call it that - I wish I could incorporate Critical Race Theory but I don't - I used to include Critical Race Theory but don't anymore - I have never used Critical Race Theory in my classroom - I have no idea what Critical Race Theory is & therefore don't intentionally use it in my classroom Q22 How familiar are you with the term "antiracism"? - Not familiar at all - Slightly familiar - Moderately familiar - Very familiar - Extremely familiar Q23 Do you believe 6-12 social studies should intentionally incorporate antiracism in its curriculum? - Definitely not - Probably not - Probably yes - Definitely yes Q24 To what extent do you have autonomy/independence in selecting which content you will teach in your classroom? - I have complete autonomy - I have complete autonomy but choose to collaborate with colleagues - I am required to collaborate with colleagues - I am mostly directed what content to teach by my department/district - I am completely directed what content to teach by my department/district Q25 To what extent do you have freedom to select/create resources that you will each in the classroom? - I have complete freedom - I have complete freedom but I choose to collaborate with colleagues - I am required to collaborate with colleagues - I am mostly directed by my department/district which resources to use in my classroom - I am completely directed by my department/district which resources to use in my classroom Q26 In what ways have you learned about antiracism, if at all? (select all that apply) ☐ I haven't learned about antiracism at all ☐ I have read about antiracism on a minimal level ☐ I have read about antiracism on a moderate level ☐ I have read about antiracism on a high level ☐ I have spoken with/listened to friends discuss antiracism ☐ I have listened to speakers talk about antiracism (podcasts, live, interviews, TV programs, etc..) ☐ I have received formal training in a seminar, classroom, conference or professional development setting Q27 In what ways, if any, have you included antiracism in your pedagogy? (select all that apply) ☐ I am unfamiliar with antiracism ☐ I am have heard the term but I don’t incorporate it into my classroom ☐ I have informally included antiracist concepts in classroom discussion ☐ I have been given resources by colleagues/peers to include antiracism in my curriculum ☐ I have been given resources by my department/district to include antiracism in my curriculum ☐ I have designed lessons specifically discussing antiracism ☐ I have integrated antiracism into as many units and curricula as I possible can ☐ other ____________________________________________ Q28 Do you ever share your own political or social ideologies/opinions in your classroom? Q29 Do you have conversations about controversial topics in your classroom? - [ ] Frequently - [ ] Sometimes - [ ] Never - [ ] I try not to but have - [ ] Other ________________________________ Q30 To the best of your ability, please rank the order of how much these groups of people are included in your daily curriculum/lessons/resources. (please note these racial groupings are the 6 major groups as identified by the U.S. Census Bureau). _____ Asian/Asian-American _____ Black/African/African-American _____ Indigenous/Native Alaskan _____ Latinx _____ Native Hawaiian/Pacific Islander _____ white Q31 Do you believe all of the above racial groupings SHOULD be included/taught in every unit in a social studies classroom? Briefly explain your answer. - [ ] Yes _______________________________________ - [ ] No _______________________________________ End of Block: Pedagogy Appendix R Pathways of Teacher Certification in the United States Graduate/TEP/NBCT: Graduate school for secondary educators usually indicates a master's degree in education. I have listed "MA" or "MAT" to represent if the participant identified their graduate degree as a master's versus a Master of Arts in teaching, which is a program in which undergraduates with a non-education degree in a content field (such as a bachelor's in Liberal Arts with a history major) will enroll in to complete their initial teaching certification in conjunction with earning a master's degree. For example, the traditional pathway for educators has been to earn a teaching certificate in the bachelor's program with a major in secondary social studies. They then go on to a master's program to further advance their knowledge in education while simultaneously advancing up the teacher's pay scale, which typically gives salary increases for teachers with more education in their field. Additionally, "TEP" is the common abbreviation for "teacher education program," occurring at the undergraduate or graduate level in the United States. Finally, "NBCT" is a "Nationally Board-Certified Teacher," an additional certification beyond the standard teaching certificate. Becoming an NBCT is rigorous and usually includes several criteria to show applicants as reflective and effective educators. One of these criteria includes proving that the candidate can address, accommodate, and incorporate diversity in their classroom. I hold a MAT (achieved in 2007) and National Board Certification (since 2010). ## Appendix S ### Completed Curriculum Profiles and Rubrics for All Participants | Criteria | Unsatatisfactory: 0 | Under 1 | Attempted 2 | Emerging 3 | Excelling 4 | |-------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------|---------|-------------|-----------|-------------| | **Content: Variety** | | | | | | | Content is presented in a Eurocentric curriculum (Asian, Asian-Pacific, Indigenous Hawaiian, Inuit, Pacific Islander, African-American) | Only white people are represented in the content with some ‘token’ BIPOC examples | One non-white racial group is given from a traditional standpoint within the content | Two or more racial groups are given from a traditional standpoint within the content | Two or more racial groups are given from a traditional standpoint without white groups across much of the content | Three racial groups are given from a traditional standpoint without white groups across much of the content | | Content is presented with negative connotations and cannot be trusted to be accurate | BIPOC are given from a traditional standpoint within the content | Examples of oppression of BIPOC appear neutral, factual, and present no threat towards or against BIPOC | Histories of BIPOC are given somewhat from their perspective | The histories of BIPOC are made from their perspective | The histories of BIPOC are made from their perspective | | **Content: Equity discussions and learning about the oppression of BIPOC in history and highlights their positive contributions to human progress** | The content speaks generally to the history and doesn’t discuss specific BIPOC people or only present people who are only present to history | BIPOC are present; oppression is learned about but there are few examples of oppression and positive contributions to history | BIPOC are present; Some examples of oppression and positive contributions are given; little focus is placed on oppression | 1-3 BIPOC are highlighted as a focus, giving specific examples of the type of oppression and positive contributions | 3-5 BIPOC are highlighted as a focus, giving specific examples of the type of oppression and positive contributions | | **Normalization: BIPOC are weaved into the main or equivalent narrative** | BIPOC are notably absent from the content | BIPOC are implied out to the main white narrative | BIPOC are included but not as a main narrative | BIPOC are included but not as a main narrative | BIPOC are not targeted and not actually included in the main narrative of history | | **Critical race:** | | | | | | | Students are guided through intentional discussions that feed them to examine the content closely and consider the inclusion of BIPOC perspectives | Does not require critical thinking comment on the right critical racial lens | Adds students to think critically but not your typical BIPOC populations | Students are led to examine content and consider the existence of gaps, but lacks in effect or efficacy | Guides students to critical examination of different perspectives of different populations | Requires that students critically consider the multiple experiences of various populations and identify gaps in the content | | **Impact on multicultural perspectives:** | | | | | | | Potential to impact students to reflect on the relevance of their own experiences as an effective approach towards racial diversity | Does not offer impact, relevance or effectiveness in reflecting on the experiences of multicultural groups | Does not give evidence of one or two of the following: relevance, effect, or effectiveness | Reflects impartial, relevant, and effective approaches towards racial diversity | Somewhat impactful, relevant and effective approaches towards racial diversity | Highly impactful, relevant and effective approaches towards towards racial diversity | | **Bonus Points: Authentic Resources selected by BIPOC** | | | | | | | Some resources selected by BIPOC | | | | | | | Bonus points: +2 | | | | | | 285 | Un satisfactory | Unclear | Attempted | Emerging | Excelling | |-----------------|---------|-----------|----------|-----------| | 0 – 4 pts. | This curriculum appears to whitewash history. Anyone who receives the information taught with this content will likely not learn the valuable contributions or rich history People of Color have within the United States. The curriculum - regardless of intentionality - will likely lead its students into falsely believing the white narrative is the only one important enough to be taught. | 5 – 9 pts. This curriculum presents American history from a primarily white perspective, as it has traditionally been taught. It doesn’t allow sufficient availability to and teaching of the value and contributions People of Color have made to the country. There is little intentionality – if any – to include People of Color in America’s history beyond the traditional topics and perspectives in which they have been included. | 10 – 14 pts. This curriculum includes People of Color alongside the traditionally taught white narrative. However the white narrative remains the featured story, thereby marginalizing People of Color. Further intentionality needs to be contributed to offer equity to People of Color in America’s history. | 15 – 19 pts. This curriculum includes People of Color to a similar extent as white people in the teaching of American history. This curriculum reflects equality in that it offers a balanced content that allows People of Color to be normalized in the telling of American history. Further intentionality is needed to truly offer an equitable perspective of the impact People of Color have had on American history. | 20 – 24 pts. This curriculum elevates People of Color above the white narrative in order to give equitable perceptions of the value BIPOC have had in the telling of America’s history. Utilizing this curriculum will guide learners to see People of Color as valuable stakeholders in the progress and success of the country and presents history from their perspective, thus positively impacting how the learner understands various racial groups. | ## Rubric for Curriculum Analysis ### Participant: CHARLES **Rubric measures level of inclusion of non-white perspectives and history in social studies content** | Criteria | Unsatatisfactory | Unclear | 1 | Attempted | 2 | Emerging | Excelling | |-------------------------------------------------------------------------|------------------|---------|---|-----------|---|----------|-----------| | **Content: Variety** | | | | | | | | | Variety of BIPOC present in curriculum (Asian, Black, Indigenous/Hawaiian/Latinx, Pacific Islander/Alaskan Native) | | | | | | | | | **Content: Perspective** | | | | | | | | | Perspective of various racial groups presented from their perspectives | | | | | | | | | **Content: Equity** | | | | | | | | | Equity discussion and learning about the oppression of BIPOC in history and highlights their previously unacknowledged contributions to human progress | | | | | | | | | **Normalization:** | | | | | | | | | BIPOC are weaved seamlessly as the main or equivalent narrative | | | | | | | | | **Critical Lens:** | | | | | | | | | Students are guided through information and discussions that lead them to examine the content closely and consider the inclusion of gaps in the information regarding race | | | | | | | | | **Impact on multicultural perspectives:** | | | | | | | | | Potential to impact students to reflect on the relevance of multicultural groups and takes an effective approach towards racial diversity | | | | | | | | | **Bonus Points:** | | | | | | | | | Resources authored by BIPOC | | | | | | | | | Level | Description | |----------------------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------| | 0 | Only white people are discussed throughout the content with or without some “color” BIPOC examples | | 1 | BIPOC are depicted with negative connotations and cannot be treated to be accurate | | 2 | The content speaks generically to the history and doesn’t discuss people and/or white people are only present in history | | 3 | BIPOC are notably absent from the content | | 4 | BIPOC are present; oppression is learned about but there are few to no examples of positive contributions is learned; little focus is given | | 5 | BIPOC are included throughout but not as a main narrative | | 6 | BIPOC are included as a special exception to the main white narrative | | 7 | BIPOC are present; Many examples of oppression and positive contributions are given; some focus is given | | 8 | BIPOC are singled out but still included as a main narrative | | 9 | BIPOC are not singled out but rather are naturally included in the main narrative of history | | 10 | Requires that students critically consider the multiple perspectives of various populations and identify gaps in the resources | | 11 | Guides students to critical examination of various perspectives of different populations | | 12 | Students are led to examine content and consider the inclusion of gaps, but lacks in effort or efficacy | | 13 | Reflects impactful, relevant and effective approaches towards racial diversity | | 14 | Some resources authored by BIPOC | | 15 | Many resources authored by BIPOC Bonus points: +2 | | Unsatisfactory | Unclear | Attempted | Emerging | Excelling | |----------------|---------|-----------|----------|-----------| | 0 – 4 pts. | 5 - 9 pts. | 10 - 14 pts. | 15 - 19 pts. | 20 - 24 pts. | | This curriculum appears to whitewash history. Anyone who receives the information taught with this content will likely not learn the valuable contributions or rich history People of Color have within the United States. The curriculum – regardless of intentionality – will likely lead its students into falsely believing the white narrative is the only one important enough to be taught. | This curriculum presents American history from a primarily white perspective, as it has traditionally been taught. It doesn’t allow sufficient availability to and teaching of the value and contributions People of Color have made to the country. There is little intentionality – if any – to include People of Color in America’s history beyond the traditional topics and perspectives in which they have been included. | This curriculum includes People of Color alongside the traditionally taught white narrative. However the white narrative remains the featured story, thereby marginalizing People of Color. Further intentionality needs to be contributed to offer equity to People of Color in America’s history. | This curriculum includes People of Color to a similar extent as white people in the teaching of American history. This curriculum reflects equality in that it offers a balanced content that allows People of Color to be normalized in the telling of American history. Further intentionality is needed to truly offer an equitable perspective of the impact People of Color have had on American history. | This curriculum elevates People of Color above the white narrative in order to give equitable perceptions of the value BIPOC have had in the telling of America’s history. Utilizing this curriculum will guide learners to see People of Color as valuable stakeholders in the progress and success of the country and presents history from their perspective, thus positively impacting how the learner understands various racial groups. | | Criteria | Unsatisfactory | Unclear | Attempted | Emerging | Excelling | |-------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------|---------|-----------|---------|-----------| | **Content: Variety** | | | | | | | Variety of BIPOC present in curriculum (Asian, Black, Indigenous Hawaiian Lāna'i, Pacific Islander/Alaskan Native) | | | | | | | Content Perspective Histories of various racial groups presented from their perspectives | | | | | | | **Normalization:** BIPOC are weaved seamlessly as the main or equivalent narrative | | | | | | | **Content: Equity discussion and learning about the oppression of BIPOC in history and highlights their previously unacknowledged contributions to human progress** | | | | | | | **Critical Lens:** | | | | | | | Students are guided through information and discussions that lead them to examine the content closely and consider the inclusion of gaps in the information regarding race | | | | | | | **Impact on multicultural perspectives:** Potential to impact students to reflect on the relevance of multicultural groups and takes an effective approach towards racial diversity | | | | | | | **Bonus Point:** Authorship Resources authored by BIPOC | | | | | | | Level | Description | |----------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------| | Unsatisfactory | Only white people are discussed throughout the content with or without some "token" BIPOC examples | | | BIPOC are depicted with negative connotations and cannot be trusted to be accurate | | | The content speaks generically to the history and doesn't discuss people and/or white people are only present | | | BIPOC are weaved seamlessly as the main or equivalent narrative | | | Does not require critical examining content through a critical racial lens | | | Does not offer impact, relevance, or effectiveness in challenging perspectives of multicultural groups | | | Some resources authored by BIPOC | | | 0 | | Unclear | One non-white racial group is discussed along with white groups within the content | | | The depiction of BIPOC are given from a traditional standard perspective | | | BIPOC are present and oppression is started but there are few to no examples of oppression and continuous persecution | | | BIPOC are singled out as a special exception to the main white narrative | | | Aks students to think critically but not about varying racial populations | | | Does not give evidence of one or two of the following: impact, relevance, or effectiveness | | | Some resources authored by BIPOC | | | 1 | | Attempted | Two or more racial groups are included in less than half of the content with or without white groups | | | Histories of BIPOC appear neutral, factual, and present without focus or against racial groups | | | BIPOC are included throughout but not as a main narrative | | | Students are led to examine content and consider the inclusion of gaps but lacks in effort or efficacy | | | Reflects impactful, relevant, and effective approaches towards racial diversity | | | Many resources authored by BIPOC | | | 2 | | Emerging | Two or more racial groups are discussed with or without white groups across much of the content | | | The depictions of BIPOC are given somewhat from their perspective | | | BIPOC are present, giving specific examples of oppression and positive contributions | | | BIPOC are included but still included as a main narrative | | | Guides students to critical examination of various perspectives of different populations and identify gaps in the resources | | | Somewhat impactful, relevant, and effective approach towards racial diversity | | | Many resources authored by BIPOC | | | 3 | | Excelling | Three+ racial groups are discussed with or without white groups across much of the content | | | The depictions of BIPOC are made from their perspective | | | BIPOC are highlighted as a focus, giving specific examples of various types of oppression and positive contributions | | | BIPOC are not singled out but still included as a main narrative | | | Requires that students critically consider the multiple perspectives of various populations and identify gaps in the resources | | | Highly impactful, relevant, and effective approach towards racial diversity | | | Many resources authored by BIPOC | | | 4 | | | Bonus points: -2 | | | Bonus points: -3 | | Unsatysfactory | Unclear | Attempted | Emerging | Excelling | |----------------|---------|-----------|----------|-----------| | 0 – 4 pts. | 5 - 9 pts. | 10 - 14 pts. | 15 - 19 pts. | 20 - 24 pts. | | This curriculum appears to whitewash history. Anyone who receives the information taught with this content will likely not learn the valuable contributions or rich history People of Color have within the United States. The curriculum – regardless of intentionality – will likely lead its students into falsely believing that the white narrative is the only one important enough to be taught beyond the traditional topics and perspectives in which they have been included. | This curriculum presents American history from a primarily white perspective, as it has traditionally been taught. It doesn’t allow sufficient availability to and teaching of the value and contributions People of Color have made to the country. There is little intentionality – if any – to include People of Color in America’s history beyond the traditional topics and perspectives in which they have been included. | This curriculum includes People of Color alongside the traditionally taught white narrative. However the white narrative remains the featured story, thereby marginalizing People of Color. Further intentionality needs to be contributed to offer equity to People of Color in America’s history. | This curriculum includes People of Color to a similar extent as white people in the teaching of American history. This curriculum reflects equality in that it offers a balanced content that allows People of Color to be normalized in the telling of American history. Further intentionality is needed to truly offer an equitable perspective of the impact People of Color have had on American history. | This curriculum elevates People of Color above the white narrative in order to give equitable perceptions of the value BIPOC have had in the telling of America’s history. Utilizing this curriculum will guide learners to see People of Color as valuable stakeholders in the progress and success of the country and presents history from their perspective, thus positively impacting how the learner understands various racial groups. | ## Rubric for Curriculum Analysis Rubric measures level of inclusion of non-white perspectives and history in social studies content | Criteria | Unatisfactory 0 | Unclear 1 | Attempted 2 | Emerging 3 | Excelling 4 | |-------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------|-----------|-------------|------------|-------------| | **Content: Variety** | | | | | | | The variety of BIPOC present in content is limited, for example, Indigenous Hawaiians and Alaska Natives | Only white people are discussed throughout the content with or without race being an explicit factor | One non-white racial group is discussed along with white group within the content | Two or more racial groups are included in less than half of the content | Two or more racial groups are discussed | Three+ racial groups are discussed with or without white groups as a factor of the content | | **Content: Perspective** | | | | | | | BIPOC are depicted with negative connotations and cannot be trusted to be accurate | BIPOC are depicted with the depiction of BIPOC are given from a traditional standard perspective | Histories of BIPOC appear neutral, factual and present no bias towards or against racial groups | The depictions of BIPOC are given somewhat from their perspective | The depictions of BIPOC are made from their perspective | | **Content: Equity** | | | | | | | Equitable discussions and learning about the oppression of BIPOC in history highlights their previously unacknowledged contributions to human progress | The content regularly generalizes the history and doesn’t discuss people and/or white people are only present | BIPOC are present and significant examples are shown but there are few to no examples of positive contributions to history | BIPOC are included throughout but not as a main narrative | BIPOC are present. Many examples of oppression and positive contributions are learned; some focus is given | 3 & BIPOC are highlighted as a focus, giving specific examples of various types of oppression and/or positive contributions | | **Normalization:** | | | | | | | BIPOC are weaved seamlessly as the main of equivalent narrative | BIPOC are notably absent from the content | BIPOC are singled out as a special exception to the main white narrative | BIPOC are included as a main narrative | BIPOC are singled out but rather are naturally included in the main narrative | BIPOC are not singled out but rather are naturally included in the main narrative of history | | **Critical Lens:** | | | | | | | Students are guided through information and discussions that lead them to examine the content closely and consider the inclusion of gaps in the information regarding race | Does not require critical examining content through a critical racial lens | Asks students to think critically but not about varying racial populations | Students are led to examine content and consider the inclusion of gaps, but lacks in effort or efficacy | Reflects impactful, relevant, and effective approaches towards racial diversity | Requires students to critical examination of various perspectives of different populations | | **Impact on multicultural perspectives:** | | | | | | | Potential to impact students to reflect on the relevance of multicultural groups and takes an effective approach towards racial diversity | Does not offer impact, relevance or effectiveness in challenging perspectives of multicultural groups | Does not give evidence of one or two of the following: impact, relevance, or effectiveness | Somewhat impactful, relevant and effective approach towards racial diversity | Highly impactful, relevant and effective approach towards racial diversity | | **Bonus Points:** | | | | | | | Resources authored by BIPOC | | | | | | | Many resources authored by BIPOC | | | | | | **Bonus points:** -7 **Bonus points:** +5 | Unsatisfactory | Unclear | Attempted | Emerging | Excelling | |----------------|---------|-----------|----------|-----------| | 0 – 4 pts. | 5 – 9 pts. | 10 – 14 pts. | 15 – 19 pts. | 20 – 24 pts. | | This curriculum appears to whitewash history. Anyone who receives the information taught with this content will likely not learn the valuable contributions or rich history People of Color have within the United States. The curriculum – regardless of intentionality – will likely lead its students into falsely believing the white narrative is the only one important enough to be taught. | This curriculum presents American history from a primarily white perspective, as it has traditionally been taught. It doesn’t allow sufficient availability to and teaching of the value and contributions People of Color have made to the country. There is little intentionality – if any – to include People of Color in America’s history beyond the traditional topics and perspectives in which they have been included. | This curriculum includes People of Color alongside the traditionally taught white narrative. However, the white narrative remains the featured story, thereby marginalizing People of Color. Further intentionality needs to be contributed to offer equity to People of Color in America’s history. | This curriculum includes People of Color to a similar extent as white people in the teaching of American history. This curriculum reflects equality in that it offers a balanced content that allows People of Color to be normalized in the telling of American history. Further intentionality is needed to truly offer an equitable perspective of the impact People of Color have had on American history. | This curriculum elevates People of Color above the white narrative in order to give equitable perceptions of the value BIPOC have had in the telling of America’s history. Utilizing this curriculum will guide learners to see People of Color as valuable stakeholders in the progress and success of the country and presents history from their perspective, thus positively impacting how the learner understands various racial groups. | | Criteria | Unsat satisfactory | Unclear | Attempted | 2 | Emerging | 3 | Excelling | 4 | |-------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------|---------|-----------|---|----------|---|-----------|---| | **Content Variety** | | | | | | | | | | Variety of BIPOC present in curriculum (Asian, Black, Indigenous Hawaiian, Latinx, Pacific Islander, Alaskan Native) | | | | | | | | | | **Content: Perspective Histories of various racial groups presented from their perspectives** | | | | | | | | | | Only white people are discussed throughout the content with or without some “token” BIPOC examples | One non-white racial group is discussed along with white groups within the content | Two or more racial groups are included in less than half of the content | Two or more racial groups are discussed with or without white groups across much of the content | These+ racial groups are discussed with or without white groups | | BIPOC are depicted with negative connotations and cannot be trusted to be accurate | The depiction of BIPOC are given from a traditional standard perspective | Histories of BIPOC appear neutral, factual, and present no bias towards or against racial groups | The depictions of BIPOC are given somewhat from their perspectives | The depictions of BIPOC are made from their perspective | | **Content: Equity discussion and learning about the oppression of BIPOC in history and highlights their previously unacknowledged contributions to human progress** | | | | | | | | | | The Content speaks generally to the history and doesn’t discuss people and/or white people are only present in history | BIPOC are present and oppression is learned about but there are few to no examples of positive contributions to history | BIPOC are present and some examples of oppression and positive contributions in learned; little focus on oppression | BIPOC are present, giving specific examples of various types of oppression and or positive contributions | 3-5 BIPOC are highlighted as a focus, giving specific examples | | **Normalization: BIPOC are weaved seamlessly as the main or equivalent narrative** | | | | | | | | | | BIPOC are notably absent from the content as a type of exception to the main white narrative | BIPOC are included throughout but not as a main narrative | BIPOC are included throughout but not as a main narrative | BIPOC are not singled out but are naturally included as part of the main narrative | BIPOC are present, giving specific examples of various types of oppression and or positive contributions | | **Critical Lens:** | | | | | | | | | | Students are guided through information and discussion that lead them to examine the content closely and consider the inclusion of gaps in the information regarding race | Does not require critical thinking or reflection through content | Asks students to think critically but not about varying racial populations | Students are led to consider the inclusion of gaps but lacks in effort or efficacy | Requires that students critically consider the impact of various perspectives of various populations and identify gaps in the resources | | **Impact on multicultural perspectives:** Potential to impact students to reflect on the relevance or effectiveness in challenging perspectives of multicultural groups and takes an effective approach towards racial diversity | Does not offer impact, relevance or effectiveness in challenging perspectives of multicultural groups | Does not give evidence of one or two of the following: impact, relevance, or effectiveness | Reflects impactful, relevant and effective approaches toward racial diversity | Somewhat impactful, relevant and effective approach towards racial diversity | | **Bonus Points: Authorship Resources authored by BIPOC** | | | | | | | | | | Many resources authored by BIPOC | Some resources authored by BIPOC | Many resources authored by BIPOC | Bonus points: +2 | Bonus points: +3 | | Unsatisfactory | Unclear | Attempted | Emerging | Excelling | |----------------|---------|-----------|----------|-----------| | 0 – 4 pts. | 5 – 9 pts. | 10 – 14 pts. | 15 - 19 pts. | 20 – 24 pts. | | This curriculum appears to whitewash history. Anyone who receives the information taught with this content will likely not learn the valuable contributions or rich history People of Color have within the United States. The curriculum – regardless of intentionality – will likely lead its students into falsely believing the white narrative is the only one important enough to be taught. | This curriculum presents American history from a primarily white perspective, as it has traditionally been taught. It doesn’t allow for sufficient availability to and teaching of the value and contributions People of Color have made to the country. There is little intentionality – if any – to include People of Color in America’s history beyond the traditional topics and perspectives in which they have been included. | This curriculum includes People of Color alongside the traditionally taught white narrative. However the white narrative remains the featured story, thereby marginalizing People of Color. Further intentionality needs to be contributed to offer equity to People of Color in America’s history. | This curriculum includes People of Color to a similar extent as white people in the teaching of American history. This curriculum reflects equality in that it offers a balanced content that allows People of Color to be normalized in the telling of American history. Further intentionality is needed to truly offer an equitable perspective of the impact People of Color have had on American history. | This curriculum elevates People of Color above the white narrative in order to give equitable perceptions of the value BIPOC have had in the telling of America’s history. Utilizing this curriculum will guide learners to see People of Color as valuable stakeholders in the progress and success of the country and presents history from their perspective, thus positively impacting how the learner understands various racial groups. | | Criteria | Unsatisfactory 0 | Unclear 1 | Attempted 2 | Emerging 3 | Excelling 4 | |-------------------------------------------------------------------------|------------------|-----------|-------------|------------|-------------| | **Content Variety** | | | | | | | Variety of BIPOC present in curriculum (Aise, Black, Indigenous Hawaiian, Latinox, Pacific Islander, Alaskan Native) | | | | | | | **Content: Perspective Histories of various racial groups presented from their perspectives** | | | | | | | Only white people are depicted or discussed in the content. BIPOC are depicted with some “token” BIPOC examples | One non-white racial group is included along with white groups within the content | Two or more racial groups are included in the content with or without white groups | Two or more racial groups are included in the content with or without white groups | Three+ racial groups are depicted and each group is represented across much of the content | Three+ racial groups are depicted and each group is represented without white groups across much of the content | | BIPOC are depicted with negative connotations and cannot be trusted to be accurate | The depiction of BIPOC are given from a traditional/standard perspective | Histories of BIPOC appear neutral, factual, and present no bias towards or against racial groups | The depictions of BIPOC are given somewhat from their perspectives | The depictions of BIPOC are made from their perspective | | **Content: Equity discussion and learning about the oppression of BIPOC in history and highlights their previously unacknowledged contributions to human progress** | | | | | | | BIPOC are notably absent from the content | The content speaks generically to the history and doesn’t discuss people and/or white people are only present | BIPOC are present and oppression is learned | BIPOC are present and some examples of oppression and positive contributions are given | BIPOC are present; BIPOC are highlighted as a focus, giving specific examples of various types of oppression and/or positive contributions | BIPOC are present; BIPOC are not singled out but rather are naturally included in the main narrative of history | | **Normalization: BIPOC are weaved seamlessly as the main or equivalent narrative** | | | | | | | BIPOC are singled out as a special exception to the main white narrative | BIPOC are singled out throughout but not as a main narrative | BIPOC are singled out but still included as a main narrative | BIPOC are singled out but still included as a main narrative | BIPOC are not singled out but rather are naturally included in the main narrative of history | | **Critical Lens:** | | | | | | | Students are guided through information and discussions that lead them to examine the content closely and consider the inclusion of gaps in the information regarding race | Does not require critical examining content through a critical racial lens | Asks students to think critically but not about varying racial populations | Students are led to examine content and consider the inclusion of gaps, but lacks in effort or efficacy | Guides students to critical examination of various perspectives of different populations | Requires that students critically consider the multiple perspectives of various populations and identify gaps in the resources | | **Impact on multicultural perspectives:** Potential to impact student to reflect on the reference of multicultural groups and takes an effective approach towards racial diversity | Does not offer impact, relevance or effectiveness in challenging perspectives of multicultural groups | Does not give evidence of one or two of the following: impact, relevance, or effectiveness | Reflects impactful, relevant, and effective approaches towards racial diversity | Somewhat impactful, relevant and effective approaches towards racial diversity | Highly impactful, relevant and effective approach towards racial diversity | | **Bonus Points: Authorship** | | | | | | | Resources authored by BIPOC | | | | | | | Bonus points: +2 | | | | | | | Bonus points: +3 | | | | | | | Bonus points: +4 | | | | | | *Many resources authored by BIPOC* | Unsatisfactory | Unclear | Attempted | Emerging | Excelling | |----------------|---------|-----------|----------|-----------| | 0 – 4 pts. | 5 – 9 pts. | 10 - 14 pts. | 15 – 19 pts. | 20 – 24 pts. | | This curriculum appears to whitewash history. Anyone who receives the information taught with this content will likely not learn the valuable contributions or rich history People of Color have within the United States. The curriculum – regardless of intentionality - will likely lead its students into falsely believing the white narrative is the only one important enough to be taught. | This curriculum presents American history from a primarily white perspective, as it has traditionally been taught. It doesn’t allow sufficient availability to and teaching of the value and contributions People of Color have made to the country. There is little intentionality – if any – to include People of Color in America’s history beyond the traditional topics and perspectives in which they have been included. | This curriculum includes People of Color alongside the traditionally taught white narrative. However the white narrative remains the featured story, thereby marginalizing People of Color. Further intentionality needs to be contributed to offer equity to People of Color in America’s history. | This curriculum includes People of Color to a similar extent as white people in the teaching of American history. This curriculum reflects equality in that it offers a balanced content that allows People of Color to be normalized in the telling of American history. Further intentionality is needed to truly offer an equitable perspective of the impact People of Color have had on American history. | This curriculum elevates People of Color above the white narrative in order to give equitable perceptions of the value BIPOC have had in the telling of America’s history. Utilizing this curriculum will guide learners to see People of Color as valuable stakeholders in the progress and success of the country and presents history from their perspective, thus positively impacting how the learner understands various racial groups. | | Unsatatisfactory | Unclear | Attempted | Emerging | Excelling | |------------------|---------|-----------|----------|-----------| | 0 – 4 pts. | This curriculum appears to whitewash history. Anyone who receives the information taught with this content will likely not learn the valuable contributions or rich history People of Color have within the United States. The curriculum – regardless of intentionality - will likely lead its students into falsely believing the white narrative is the only one important enough to be taught. | This curriculum presents American history from a primarily white perspective, as it has traditionally been taught. It doesn’t allow sufficient availability to and teaching of the value and contributions People of Color have made to the country. There is little intentionality – if any – to include People of Color in America’s history beyond the traditional topics and perspectives in which they have been included. | This curriculum includes People of Color alongside the traditionally taught white narrative. However the white narrative remains the featured story, thereby marginalizing People of Color. Further intentionality needs to be contributed to offer equity to People of Color in America’s history. | This curriculum includes People of Color to a similar extent as white people in the teaching of American history. This curriculum reflects equality in that it offers a balanced content that allows People of Color to be normalized in the telling of American history. Further intentionality is needed to truly offer an equitable perspective of the impact People of Color have had on American history. | This curriculum elevates People of Color above the white narrative in order to give equitable perceptions of the value BIPOC have had in the telling of America’s history. Utilizing this curriculum will guide learners to see People of Color as valuable stakeholders in the progress and success of the country and presents history from their perspective, thus positively impacting how the learner understands various racial groups. | ## Rubric for Curriculum Analysis Rubric measures level of inclusion of non-white perspectives and history in social studies content | Criteria | Unatisfactory 0 | Unclear 1 | Attempted 2 | Emerging 3 | Excelling 4 | |-------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------|-----------|-------------|-----------|-------------| | **Content: Variety** | | | | | | | Variety of BIPOC present in curriculum, including Black, Indigenous Hawaiian, Alaska Pacific Islander, Alaskan Native | Only white people are discussed throughout the content but there are some “token” BIPOC examples | One non-white racial group is discussed along with white people within the content | Two or more racial groups are discussed in less than half of the content | Two or more racial groups are discussed with or without white groups | Three racial groups are discussed with or without white groups across much of the content | | **Content: Perspective/Histories of various racial groups presented from their perspectives** | BIPOC are depicted with negative connotations and cannot be trusted to be accurate | The depiction of BIPOC are given from a traditional/standard perspective | Histories of BIPOC appear neutral, factual, and present no bias towards or against racial groups | The depictions of BIPOC are made from somewhat from their perspectives | The depictions of BIPOC are made from their perspective | | **Content: Equity discussion and learning about the oppression of BIPOC in history and highlights their previously unacknowledged contributions to human progress** | The content speaks generically to the history of BIPOC and doesn’t discuss people and/or white people are notably absent from the content | BIPOC are present and oppression is learned about but there are few to no examples of positive contributions to history | BIPOC are included as a special exception to the main white narrative | BIPOC are singled out throughout but not as a main narrative | BIPOC are present; BIPOC are highlighted as a focus, giving specific examples of various types of oppression and/or positive contributions | | **Normalization: BIPOC are weaved seamlessly as the main or equivalent narrative** | BIPOC are absent from the content | BIPOC are present and oppression is learned about but there are few to no examples of positive contributions to history | BIPOC are included as a special exception to the main white narrative | BIPOC are singled out but still included as a main narrative | BIPOC are not singled out but rather are naturally included in the main narrative of history | | **Critical Lens:** | | | | | | | Students are guided through information and discussions that lead them to examine the content closely and consider the inclusion of gaps in the information regarding race | Does not require critical examining content through a critical racial lens | Ask students to think critically but not about varying racial populations | Students are led to examine content and consider the inclusion of gaps, but lacks in effort or efficacy | Reflects impactful, relevant, and effective approaches towards racial diversity | Guides students to critical examination of various perspectives of different populations | | **Impact on multicultural perspective:** Potential to impact students to reflect on the relevance of racial groups and take an effective approach towards racial diversity | Does not offer impact, reference or effectiveness in challenging perspectives of multicultural groups | Does not give evidence of one or two of the following: impact, relevance, or effectiveness | Somewhat impactful, relevant and effective approaches towards racial diversity | Highly impactful, relevant and effective approach towards racial diversity | Highly impactful, relevant and effective approach towards racial diversity | | **Bonus Points: Authorship** | | | | | | | Resources authored by BIPOC | | | | | | **Bonus points:** - **Authorship**: Resources authored by BIPOC - Bonus points: +2 - **Resources**: Many resources authored by BIPOC - Bonus points: +3 | Un satisfactory | Unclear | Attempted | Emerging | Excelling | |-----------------|---------|-----------|----------|-----------| | 0 – 4 pts. | 5 – 9 pts. | 10 – 14 pts. | 15 – 19 pts. | 20 – 24 pts. | | This curriculum appears to whitewash history. Anyone who receives the information taught with this content will likely not learn the valuable contributions or rich history People of Color have within the United States. The curriculum – regardless of intentionality – will likely lead its students into falsely believing the white narrative is the only one important enough to be taught. | This curriculum presents American history from a primarily white perspective, as it has traditionally been taught. It doesn’t allow sufficient availability to and teaching of the value and contributions People of Color have made to the country. There is little intentionality – if any – to include People of Color in America’s history beyond the traditional topics and perspectives in which they have been included. | This curriculum includes People of Color alongside the traditionally taught white narrative. However the white narrative remains the featured story, thereby marginalizing People of Color. Further intentionality needs to be contributed to offer equity to People of Color in America’s history. | This curriculum includes People of Color to a similar extent as white people in the teaching of American history. This curriculum reflects equality in that it offers a balanced content that allows People of Color to be normalized in the telling of American history. Further intentionality is needed to truly offer an equitable perspective of the impact People of Color have had on American history. | This curriculum elevates People of Color above the white narrative in order to give equitable perceptions of the value BIPOC have had in the telling of America’s history. Utilizing this curriculum will guide learners to see People of Color as valuable stakeholders in the progress and success of the country and presents history from their perspective, thus positively impacting how the learner understands various racial groups. | | Criteria | Unsatisfactory | Unclear | Attempted | Emerging | Excelling | |------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------|---------|-----------|----------|-----------| | **Content: Variety** A variety of BIPOC present in curriculum (Asian, Black, Indigenous Hawaiian/Latinx, Pacific Islander/Alaskan Native) Content: Perspective Histories of various racial groups presented from their perspectives | Only white people are discussed throughout the content with or without some “token” BIPOC examples | One non-white racial group is discussed along with white groups within the content | The depiction of BIPOC are depicted with negative connotations and cannot be trusted to be accurate | Histories of BIPOC appear neutral, traditionalist and present no bias towards or against racial groups | Three+ racial groups are discussed with or without white groups across much of the content | | **Content: Equity** Discussion and learning about the oppression of BIPOC in history and highlights their previously unacknowledged contributions to human progress Normalization: BIPOC are weaved seamlessly as the main or equivalent narrative | The content speaks generically to the history and doesn’t discuss people and/or white people are only present | BIPOC are absent from the content | BIPOC are present and oppression is learned but there are few to no examples of positive contributions to history | BIPOC are included throughout but not as a main narrative | BIPOC are present. Many examples of oppression and positive contributions are given; some focus is given | | **Critical Lens:** Students are guided through information and discussions that lead them to examine the content closely and consider the inclusion of gaps in the information regarding race | Does not require critical examining content through a critical racial lens | Asks students to think critically but not about varying racial populations | Students are led to examine content and consider the inclusion of gaps, but lacks in effort or efficacy | Reflects impactful, relevant and effective approach towards racial diversity | Somewhat impactful, relevant and effective approach towards racial diversity | | **Impact on multicultural perspectives:** Potential to impact students to reflect on the relevance of multicultural groups and takes an effective approach towards racial diversity | Does not offer impact, relevance or effectiveness in challenging perspectives of multicultural groups | Does not give evidence of one or two of the following: impact, relevance, or effectiveness | Some resources authored by BIPOC | Many resources authored by BIPOC | Bonus points: +2 | **Bonus Points:** Authorship Resources authored by BIPOC **Bonus points:** +3 | Unsatatisfactory | Unclear | Attempted | Emerging | Excelling | |------------------|---------|-----------|----------|-----------| | 0 – 4 pts. | This curriculum appears to whitewash history. Anyone who receives the information taught with this content will likely not learn the valuable contributions or rich history People of Color have within the United States. The curriculum - regardless of intentionality - will likely lead its students into falsely believing the white narrative is the only one important enough to be taught. | This curriculum presents American history from a primarily white perspective, as it has traditionally been taught. It doesn’t allow sufficient availability to and teaching of the value and contributions People of Color have made to the country. There is little intentionality - if any - to include People of Color in America’s history beyond the traditional topics and perspectives in which they have been included. | This curriculum includes People of Color alongside the traditionally taught white narrative. However, the white narrative remains the featured story, thereby marginalizing People of Color. Further intentionality needs to be contributed to offer equity to People of Color in America’s history. | This curriculum includes People of Color to a similar extent as white people in the teaching of American history. This curriculum reflects equality in that it offers a balanced content that allows People of Color to be normalized in the telling of American history. Further intentionality is needed to truly offer an equitable perspective of the impact People of Color have had on American history. | This curriculum elevates People of Color above the white narrative in order to give equitable perceptions of the value BIPOC have had in the telling of America’s history. Utilizing this curriculum will guide learners to see People of Color as valuable stakeholders in the progress and success of the country and presents history from their perspective, thus positively impacting how the learner understands various racial groups. | Appendix T Full Survey Results for Study Participants Findings 6-12 SS Teacher Survey May 9th 2022, 10:30 am MDT Q3 – What is your sex? | # | Field | Minimum | Maximum | Mean | Std Deviation | Variance | Count | |---|------------------------------|---------|---------|--------|---------------|----------|-------| | 1 | What is your sex? - Selected Choice | 1.00 | 2.00 | 1.78 | 0.42 | 0.17 | 9 | | # | Answer | % | Count | |---|--------------|----------|-------| | 1 | Female | 22.22% | 2 | | 2 | Male | 77.78% | 7 | | 3 | Both | 0.00% | 0 | | 4 | Non-Binary | 0.00% | 0 | | # | Field | Minimum | Maximum | Mean | Std Deviation | Variance | Count | |----|------------------------------|---------|---------|--------|---------------|----------|-------| | 1 | What is your racial identity? - Selected Choice | 1.00 | 6.00 | 5.44 | 1.57 | 2.47 | 9 | | # | Answer | % | Count | |----|------------------------------|---------|-------| | 1 | Asian/Asian-American | 11.11% | 1 | | 2 | Black/African-American | 0.00% | 0 | | 3 | Indigenous | 0.00% | 0 | | 4 | Latinx | 0.00% | 0 | | 5 | Native Hawaiian/Pacific Islander | 0.00% | 0 | | 6 | white | 88.89% | 8 | | 7 | bi-racial (please specify) | 0.00% | 0 | | 8 | multi-racial (please specify)| 0.00% | 0 | Q4_7_TEXT - bi-racial (please specify) bi-racial (please specify) - Text Q4_8_TEXT - multi-racial (please specify) multi-racial (please specify) - Text Q5 – What is your age range? | # | Field | Minimum | Maximum | Mean | Std Deviation | Variance | Count | |---|----------------|---------|---------|-------|---------------|----------|-------| | 1 | What is your age range? | 1.00 | 3.00 | 1.78 | 0.63 | 0.40 | 9 | | # | Answer | % | Count | |---|--------|---------|-------| | 1 | 20-29 | 33.33% | 3 | | 2 | 30-39 | 55.56% | 5 | | 3 | 40-49 | 11.11% | 1 | | 4 | 50-59 | 0.00% | 0 | | 5 | 60-69 | 0.00% | 0 | | 6 | 70+ | 0.00% | 0 | | | Total | 100% | 9 | Q6 - How long have you been teaching 6-12 social studies? | # | Field | Minimum | Maximum | Mean | Std Deviation | Variance | Count | |---|------------------------------|---------|---------|--------|---------------|----------|-------| | 1 | How long have you been teaching 6-12 social studies? | 1.00 | 5.00 | 2.11 | 1.20 | 1.43 | 9 | | # | Answer | % | Count | |---|--------------|----------|-------| | 1 | 0-5 years | 33.33% | 3 | | 2 | 6-10 years | 44.44% | 4 | | 3 | 11-15 year | 11.11% | 1 | | 4 | 16-20 years | 0.00% | 0 | | 5 | 21-25 years | 11.11% | 1 | | 6 | 26-30 years | 0.00% | 0 | | 7 | 31+years | 0.00% | 0 | | | Total | 100% | 9 | Q7 – What is the highest degree you have obtained? | # | Field | Minimum | Maximum | Mean | Std Deviation | Variance | Count | |----|--------------------------------------------|---------|---------|--------|---------------|----------|-------| | 1 | What is the highest degree you have | 1.00 | 3.00 | 1.89 | 0.57 | 0.32 | 9 | | | obtained? - Selected Choice | | | | | | | | # | Answer | % | Count | |----|--------|--------|-------| | 1 | Bachelors | 22.22% | 2 | | 2 | Masters | 66.67% | 6 | | 3 | Doctoral | 11.11% | 1 | | 4 | other | 0.00% | 0 | | | Total | 100% | 9 | Q7_4_TEXT - other other - Text Q8 - Are you National Board Certified? If so, please indicate the year of your initial certification. | # | Field | Minimum | Maximum | Mean | Std Deviation | Variance | Count | |----|----------------------------------------------------------------------|---------|---------|--------|---------------|----------|-------| | 1 | Are you National Board Certified? If so, please indicate the year of your initial certification. - Selected Choice | 1.00 | 4.00 | 2.11 | 0.74 | 0.54 | 9 | | # | Answer | % | Count | |----|-------------------------|---------|-------| | 1 | Yes | 11.11% | 1 | | 2 | No | 77.78% | 7 | | 3 | Current Applicant | 0.00% | 0 | | 4 | Unsure | 11.11% | 1 | | | Total | 100% | 9 | Q8_1_TEXT - Yes Yes - Text 2015 Q9 - Please select the answer that best describes the region of the school in which you currently work. | # | Field | Minimum | Maximum | Mean | Std Deviation | Variance | Count | |---|----------------------------------------------------------------------|---------|---------|-------|---------------|----------|-------| | 1 | Please select the answer that best describes the region of the school in which you currently work. | 1.00 | 4.00 | 2.33 | 1.25 | 1.56 | 9 | | # | Answer | % | Count | |---|-------------|--------|-------| | 1 | Midwest | 33.33% | 3 | | 2 | East/Northeast | 33.33% | 3 | | 4 | South | 33.33% | 3 | | 5 | West | 0.00% | 0 | | | Total | 100% | 9 | Q10 - Please select the answer that best describes the school in which you currently work. | # | Field | Minimum | Maximum | Mean | Std Deviation | Variance | Count | |---|----------------------------------------------------------------------|---------|---------|-------|---------------|----------|-------| | 1 | Please select the answer that best describes the school in which you currently work. | 1.00 | 3.00 | 2.00 | 0.67 | 0.44 | 9 | | # | Answer | % | Count | |---|--------|---------|-------| | 1 | Urban | 22.22% | 2 | | 2 | Suburban | 55.56% | 5 | | 3 | Rural | 22.22% | 2 | | | Total | 100% | 9 | Q11 - Please select the answer that best describes the school in which you currently work. | # | Answer | % | Count | |----|---------------------------------------------|-------|-------| | 1 | Public | 63.64%| 7 | | 2 | Private | 9.09% | 1 | | 3 | Magnet or Charter | 18.18%| 2 | | 4 | Specialized (IB, boarding, academy, etc...) | 9.09% | 1 | | | Total | 100% | 11 | Q11_4_TEXT - Specialized (IB, boarding, academy, etc...) Specialized (IB, boarding, academy, etc...) - Text Vocational School Q12 - Give an approximate of the size of your school's student body. | # | Field | Minimum | Maximum | Mean | Std Deviation | Variance | Count | |---|--------------------------------------------|---------|---------|-------|---------------|----------|-------| | 1 | Give an approximate of the size of your school's student body. | 1.00 | 5.00 | 2.78 | 1.47 | 2.17 | 9 | | # | Answer | % | Count | |---|----------|---------|-------| | 1 | 0-500 | 22.22% | 2 | | 2 | 501-1000 | 33.33% | 3 | | 3 | 1001-1500| 11.11% | 1 | | 4 | 1501-2000| 11.11% | 1 | | 5 | 2001-2500| 22.22% | 2 | | 6 | 2500+ | 0.00% | 0 | | | Total | 100% | 9 | Q13 - Give your best guess as to the percentages of each racial demographic of your school's student body. | # | Field | Minimum | Maximum | Mean | Std Deviation | Variance | Count | |----|------------------------------|---------|---------|--------|---------------|----------|-------| | 1 | Asian/Asian-American | 0.00 | 60.00 | 12.44 | 18.11 | 327.80 | 9 | | 2 | Black/African-American | 1.00 | 40.00 | 17.44 | 13.70 | 187.80 | 9 | | 3 | Indigenous | 0.00 | 5.00 | 1.67 | 1.83 | 3.33 | 9 | | 4 | Latinx | 0.00 | 60.00 | 19.89 | 20.11 | 404.54 | 9 | | 5 | Native Hawaiian/Pacific Islander | 0.00 | 10.00 | 2.56 | 3.10 | 9.58 | 9 | | 6 | white | 5.00 | 99.00 | 48.11 | 37.67 | 1418.99 | 9 | Q14 - Was your 6-12 education entirely in the United States? ![Bar chart showing 100% Yes and 0% No] | # | Field | Minimum | Maximum | Mean | Std Deviation | Variance | Count | |----|------------------------------|---------|---------|--------|---------------|----------|-------| | 1 | Was your 6-12 education entirely in the United States? | 1.00 | 1.00 | 1.00 | 0.00 | 0.00 | 9 | | # | Answer | % | Count | |----|--------|--------|-------| | 1 | Yes | 100.00%| 9 | | 2 | No | 0.00% | 0 | | | Total | 100% | 9 | Q15 - Of your own 6-12 social studies teachers, how many were white? Current Teachers Taught By white Social Studies Teachers in Their 6-12 Education Q16 - Of your own 6-12 social studies teachers, how many were NOT white? | # | Field | Minimum | Maximum | Mean | Std Deviation | Variance | Count | |---|----------------------------------------------------------------------|---------|---------|------|---------------|----------|-------| | 1 | Of your own 6-12 social studies teachers, how many were NOT white? | 1.00 | 6.00 | 1.89 | 1.59 | 2.54 | 9 | | # | Answer | % | Count | |---|--------|---------|-------| | 1 | 0 | 66.67% | 6 | | 2 | 1 | 11.11% | 1 | | 3 | 2 | 11.11% | 1 | | 4 | 3 | 0.00% | 0 | | 5 | 4 | 0.00% | 0 | | 6 | 5+ | 11.11% | 1 | | | Total | 100% | 9 | Q17 - Do you believe 6-12 social studies teachers, their lessons and their curriculum impact the development of students' beliefs on race? Do you believe 6-12 social studies teachers, their lessons, & their curriculum impact the development of students' beliefs on race? Q18 - HOW YOU SEE RACE: Remembering that this survey is anonymous, of the options below, select which statements best describe your personal outlook on race. Teacher's Self-Identification of Their Outlook On Race - I believe white people are superior to other racial demographics - 0 - I'm not racist - 0 - I enjoy the music, sports and/or culture of non-white people but I don't have People of Color in my life - 1 - I try not to see color - 1 - I acknowledge whiteness has been oppressive but there's not much I can do about it - 1 - Slavery didn't happen time ago; I had no part in the slavery of Color, I have had it rough but I've never participated in a demonstration or I am not personally close with many/any People of Color - 2 - I am involved in changing institutional racism and dismantle white supremacy - 3 - I acknowledge whiteness has been oppressive and look forward to engaging with racism and look to speak the truth to dismantle racist behavior - 4 - I believe being white in the United States is easier than being a person of Color - 5 - I believe whites have benefited over People of Color and I'd like to hear from them - 6 Q19 - To the best of your ability, select the one with which you self-identify. Q20 - On the political/ideological spectrum, where do you identify yourself? Secondary Social Studies Teachers' Political Self-Identification in the U.S. | # | Answer | % | Count | |----|---------------------------------------------|-----|-------| | 6 | unsure (please explain) | 0% | 0 | | 4 | moderate right; conservative | 22% | 2 | | 2 | moderate left; liberal | 33% | 3 | | 3 | moderate | 22% | 2 | | 5 | far-right; conservative | 0% | 0 | | 1 | far-left; liberal | 22% | 2 | | | Total | 100%| 9 | "Unsure (please explain)" unsure (please explain) - Text Q21 - Do you now, or have you ever, taught Critical Race Theory in your classes? 6-12 Social Studies Teachers' Reporting on Use of Critical Race Theory in Classroom - I use Critical Race Theory currently - I used to include Critical Race Theory but don't anymore - I have never used Critical Race Theory in my classroom 44% - I have no idea what Critical Race Theory is & therefore don't intentionally use it in my classroom 22% - I wish I could incorporate Critical Race Theory but I don't 11% - I include the concepts and lessons of Critical Race Theory, but I don't call it that 22% Q22 - How familiar are you with the term "antiracism" Secondary Social Studies Teachers' Familiarity with the Term "Antiracism" - Not familiar at all (0%) - Slightly familiar (11%) - Moderately familiar (33%) - Very familiar (33%) - Extremely familiar (22%) Q23 - Do you believe 6-12 social studies should intentionally incorporate antiracism in its curriculum? Secondary Social Studies Teachers Who Believe Antiracism Should Intentionally Be Incorporated Into Curriculum - Definitely not (0%) - Probably not (11%) - Probably yes (33%) - Definitely yes (56%) Q24 - To what extent do you have autonomy/independence in selecting which content you will teach in your classroom? **Reported Teacher Curricular Autonomy in the 6-12 Social Studies Classroom** | # | Answer | % | Count | |---|------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------|-------| | 1 | I have complete autonomy | 33.33%| 3 | | 2 | I have complete autonomy but choose to collaborate with colleagues | 22.22%| 2 | | 3 | I am required to collaborate with colleagues | 33.33%| 3 | | 4 | I am mostly directed what content to teach by my department/district | 11.11%| 1 | | 5 | I am completely directed what content to teach by my department/district| 0.00% | 0 | Total: 100% | 9 Q25 - To what extent do you have freedom to select/create resources that you will teach in the classroom? Reported Teacher Freedom in Choosing Resources for their 6-12 Social Studies Classroom | # | Answer | % | Count | |---|------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------|-------| | 1 | I have complete freedom | 55.56%| 5 | | 2 | I have complete freedom but I choose to collaborate with colleagues | 22.22%| 2 | | 3 | I am required to collaborate with colleagues | 22.22%| 2 | | 4 | I am mostly directed by my department/district which resources to use in my classroom | 0.00% | 0 | | 5 | I am completely directed by my department/district which resources to use in my classroom | 0.00% | 0 | | | Total | 100% | 9 | Q26 - In what ways have you learned about antiracism, if at all? (select all that apply) How 6-12 Social Studies Teachers Have Learned About Antiracism | # | Answer | % | Count | |---|------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----|-------| | 1 | I haven't learned about antiracism at all | 4.35% | 1 | | 2 | I have read about antiracism on a minimal level | 4.35% | 1 | | 3 | I have read about antiracism on a moderate level | 26.09% | 6 | | 4 | I have read about antiracism on a high level | 4.35% | 1 | | 5 | I have spoken with/listened to friends discuss antiracism | 17.39% | 4 | | 6 | I have listened to speakers talk about antiracism (podcasts, live, interviews, TV programs, etc..) | 26.09% | 6 | | 7 | I have received formal training in a seminar, classroom, conference or professional development setting | 17.39% | 4 | Total 100% 23 Q27 - In what ways, if any, have you included antiracism in your pedagogy? (select all that apply) How 6-12 Social Studies Teachers Have Included Antiracism in their Pedagogy | # | Answer | % | Count | |---|------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----|-------| | 1 | I am unfamiliar with antiracism | 0.00% | 0 | | 2 | I am have heard the term but I don't incorporate it into my classroom | 15.38% | 2 | | 3 | I have informally included antiracist concepts in classroom discussion | 46.15% | 6 | | 4 | I have been given resources by colleagues/peers to include antiracism in my curriculum | 7.69% | 1 | | 5 | I have been given resources by my department/district to include antiracism in my curriculum | 7.69% | 1 | | 6 | I have designed lessons specifically discussing antiracism | 7.69% | 1 | | 7 | I have integrated antiracism into as many units and curricula as I possible can | 15.38% | 2 | | 8 | other | 0.00% | 0 | | | Total | 100% | 13 | Q28 - Do you ever share your own political or social ideologies/opinions in your classroom? 6-12 Social Studies Teachers Sharing Their Political/Social Ideologies in Class - **Frequently (0%, 0)** - **Sometimes (22%, 2)** - **Never (11%, 1)** - **I try not to but have (56%, 5)** - **Other (11%, 1)** "Other – fill in the blank" 6-12 Social Studies Teachers Sharing Their Political/Social Ideologies in Class - **Frequently** - **Sometimes** - **Never** - **I try not to but have** - **Other** I try to be as ambiguous as possible Q29 - Do you have conversations about controversial topics in your classroom? Controversial Conversations in 6-12 Social Studies Classrooms in the U.S. - Frequently: 44% - Sometimes: 44% - I try not to but have: 11% - Never: 0% Q30 - To the best of your ability, please rank the order of how much these groups of people are included in your daily curriculum/lessons/resources. (please note these racial groupings are the 6 major groups as identified by the U.S. Census Reported Percentage of Racial Group Representation in 6-12 Social Studies Curriculum - **Asian/Asian-American** - Has the most representation: 56% - Has the 2nd most representation: 28% - Has the 3rd most representation: 22% - Has the 4th most representation: 11% - **Black/African-American** - Has the most representation: 89% - Has the 2nd most representation: 11% - **Indigenous/Native Alaskan** - Has the most representation: 44% - Has the 2nd most representation: 33% - Has the 3rd most representation: 11% - **Latinx** - Has the most representation: 44% - Has the 2nd most representation: 11% - Has the 3rd most representation: 11% - **Native Hawaiian/Pacific Islander** - Has the most representation: 89% - Has the 2nd most representation: 11% - **White** - Has the most representation: 100% Reported Percentage of Racial Group Representation in 6-12 Social Studies Curriculum - **White**: 100% - **Native Hawaiian/Pacific Islander**: 11% (89%) - **Latinx**: 11% (44%) - **Indigenous/Native Alaskan**: 11% (44%) - **Black/African/African-American**: 11% (89%) - **Asian/Asian-American**: 56% (32%) Reported Percentage of Racial Group Representation in 6-12 Social Studies Curriculum **Racial Group Most Often Included** - **White**: 100% **Racial Group 2nd Most Often Included** - **Black/African/African-American**: 89% - **Latinx**: 11% Racial Group 3rd Most Often Included - Asian/Asian-American: 22% - Black/African/African-American: 11% - Indigenous/Native Alaskan: 44% - Latinx: 22% Racial Group 4th Most Often Included - Asian/Asian-American: 22% - Black/African/African-American: 11% - Indigenous/Native Alaskan: 44% - Latinx: 22% Racial Group Second to Least Included - Asian/Asian-American: 56% - Black/African/African-American: 33% - Indigenous/Native Alaskan: 11% - Latinx: 11% Racial Group Least Included - Native Hawaiian/Pacific Islander: 89% - White: 11% Q31 - Do you believe all of the above racial groupings SHOULD be included/taught in every unit in a social studies classroom? Briefly explain your answer. Should Every Racial Grouping Be Represented/Included in Every Unit in a 6-12 Social Studies Curriculum? | # | Field | Minimum | Maximum | Mean | Std Deviation | Variance | Count | |---|----------------------------------------------------------------------|---------|---------|--------|---------------|----------|-------| | 1 | Do you believe all of the above racial groupings SHOULD be included/taught in every unit in a social studies classroom? Briefly explain your answer. - Selected Choice | 1.00 | 2.00 | 1.44 | 0.50 | 0.25 | 9 | | # | Answer | % | Count | |---|--------|---------|-------| | 1 | Yes | 55.56% | 5 | | 2 | No | 44.44% | 4 | | | Total | 100% | 9 | Not every issue has to do with those groups - for example, why would I teach about Indigenous Americans in a Unit on Ancient Rome and Greece? I suppose a better way of putting it is is SHOULD all those groupings history be covered, to which I say yes. Every unit? Not always applicable. A reconstruction unit doesn’t lend itself to Pacific Islanders, for example. I feel like it’s hard to include sometimes without “reaching” There are some instances where they may not necessarily fit into the narrative in a US History class, and it might not fit. However they should receive adequate representation in units where they do show up. Should Every Racial Grouping Be Represented/Included in Every Unit in a 6-12 Social Studies Curriculum? Yes response word bubble - 15 words Should Every Racial Grouping Be Represented/Included in Every Unit in a 6-12 Social Studies Curriculum? NO response word bubble - 50 words Q31_1_TEXT - Yes Yes - Text The United States are not completely white so why would we ignore massive groups of people Yes, america is a melting pot of immigration and each group should be taught I think that each of the group has had a valid and important experience in the U.S. and that should be reflected in lessons US History is the history of all of us, not some of us. America is the great melting pot. Although oppressed and limited in their impact, the stories of minority groups should be considered and discussed in social studies classes. Findings 6-12 SS Teacher Survey Nationwide Sample August 8th 2022, 11:33 pm MDT Q3 - What is your sex? | # | Answer | % | Count | |---|--------------|-------|-------| | 1 | Female | 78.80%| 275 | | 2 | Male | 20.34%| 71 | | 3 | Both | 0.29% | 1 | | 4 | Non-Binary | 0.29% | 1 | | 5 | other | 0.29% | 1 | | | Total | 100% | 349 | Q4 - What is your racial identity? 349 Responses. | # | Answer | % | Count | |----|-------------------------------|-------|-------| | 1 | Asian/Asian-American | 0.57% | 2 | | 2 | Black/African-American | 4.87% | 17 | | 3 | Indigenous | 0.86% | 3 | | 4 | Latinx | 2.87% | 10 | | 5 | Native Hawaiian/Pacific Islander | 0.57% | 2 | | 6 | white | 88.25%| 308 | | 7 | bi-racial (please specify) | 1.15% | 4 | | 8 | multi-racial (please specify) | 0.86% | 3 | | | Total | 100% | 349 | Q4_7_TEXT - bi-racial (please specify) bi-racial (please specify) - Text White, Middle Eastern/Arab Half white, half Italian White/Native American Latina and white Q4_8_TEXT - multi-racial (please specify) multi-racial (please specify) - Text European American Spanish, Mexican, and European white White/jewish Q5 - What is your age range? | # | Answer | % | Count | |---|--------|-------|-------| | 1 | 20-29 | 11.17%| 39 | | 2 | 30-39 | 25.79%| 90 | | 3 | 40-49 | 31.81%| 111 | | 4 | 50-59 | 24.64%| 86 | | 5 | 60-69 | 5.44% | 19 | | 6 | 70+ | 1.15% | 4 | | | Total | 100% | 349 | Q6 - How long have you been teaching 6-12 social studies? 349 Responses | # | Answer | % | Count | |---|-------------|-------|-------| | 1 | 0-5 years | 27.22%| 95 | | 2 | 6-10 years | 25.79%| 90 | | 3 | 11-15 year | 10.89%| 38 | | 4 | 16-20 years | 13.47%| 47 | | 5 | 21-25 years | 16.05%| 56 | | 6 | 26-30 years | 3.44% | 12 | | 7 | 31+years | 3.15% | 11 | | | Total | 100% | 349 | Q7 - What is the highest degree you have obtained? 349 Responses - Bachelors: 92 - Masters: 227 - Doctoral: 21 - Other: 9 Q7_4_TEXT - other other - Text Specialist Doctorate in progress Education Specialist Masters in progress 2 Master's Degrees Ma plus 30 EdS Education Specialist 8 - Are you National Board Certified? If so, please indicate the year of your initial certification. - Yes: 56 - No: 283 - Current Applicant: 10 - Unsure: 10 Q9 - Please select the answer that best describes the region of the school in which you currently work. 349 Responses - Midwest [24%] - East/Northeast [13%] - South [37%] - West [25%] Q10 - Please select the answer that best describes the school in which you currently work. 349 Responses - Urban [24%] - Suburban [42%] - Rural [34%] | Answer | % | Count | |-----------------|-------|-------| | Midwest | 24.36%| 85 | | East/Northeast | 13.18%| 46 | | South | 37.25%| 130 | | West | 25.21%| 88 | | Total | 100% | 349 | | # | Answer | % | Count | |---|-------------|-------|-------| | 1 | Urban | 24.07%| 84 | | 2 | Suburban | 42.41%| 148 | | 3 | Rural | 33.52%| 117 | | | Total | 100% | 349 | Q11 - Please select the answer that best describes the school in which you currently work. - Public [81.4%] - Private [9.0%] - Magnet or Charter [10.1%] - Specialized (IB, boarding, academy, etc...) [5.2%] Q12 - Give an approximate of the size of your school’s student body. Q13 - Give your best guess as to the percentages of each racial demographic of your school's student body. | # | Field | Minimum | Maximum | Mean | Std Deviation | Variance | Count | |----|------------------------------|---------|---------|--------|---------------|----------|-------| | 1 | Asian/Asian-American | 0.00 | 79.00 | 6.81 | 10.28 | 105.76 | 349 | | 2 | Black/African-American | 0.00 | 100.00 | 21.46 | 23.05 | 531.31 | 349 | | 3 | Indigenous | 0.00 | 79.00 | 3.53 | 9.34 | 87.21 | 349 | | 4 | Latinx | 0.00 | 98.00 | 23.09 | 21.93 | 480.83 | 349 | | 5 | Native Hawaiian/Pacific Islander | 0.00 | 89.00 | 2.30 | 9.28 | 86.13 | 349 | | 6 | white | 0.00 | 100.00 | 48.02 | 29.65 | 879.38 | 349 | Q14 - Was your 6-12 education entirely in the United States? Q15 - Of your own 6-12 social studies teachers, how many were white? Current Teachers Taught By white Social Studies Teachers in Their 6-12 Education - 0 white teachers: 3 - 1 white teacher: 5 - 2 white teachers: 18 - 3 white teachers: 18 - 4 white teachers: 36 - 5+ white teachers: 269 Q16 - Of your own 6-12 social studies teachers, how many were NOT white? Q17 - Do you believe 6-12 social studies teachers, their lessons and their curriculum impact the development of students' beliefs on race? Do you believe 6-12 social studies teachers, their lessons, & their curriculum impact the development of students' beliefs on race? Q18 - HOW YOU SEE RACE: Remembering that this survey is anonymous, of the options below, select which statements best describe your personal outlook on race. Teacher's Self-Identification of Their Outlook On Race - I believe white people are superior to other racial demographics - I enjoy the music, sports and/or culture of non-white people but I don't ha... - I believe being white in the United States is easier than being a Person of... - I think People of Color have had it rough but I've never participated in a ... - I am disheartened that white people have benefited over People of Color and... - I acknowledge whiteness has been oppressive and look for ways to expose it - I refuse to comply with racism and look to speak the truth to dismantle rac... - I am actively involved in changing institutional racism and dismantle white... - I am not personally close with many/any People of Color - I try not to see color - I acknowledge whiteness has been oppressive but there's not much I can do a... - I'm not racist but..... - Slavery ended a long time ago; I had nothing to do with it - Click to write Choice 14 Q19 - To the best of your ability, select the one with which you self-identify. Teachers’ Self-Identification of Racial Optics Other category - fill in the blank Other - Text I teach History factually and honestly. I hope to someday be considered an ally. I continue to grow and change as I learn more about racism and my own racist ideology. Classic liberal “content of character” type of person against racism I have racist thoughts created by my upbringing. I actively work to counter them and consider myself an ally. To say I am not racist is to deny unconscious bias, which I know I still have. I wouldn’t call myself an ally as that label has not been given to be by the BIPOC community. I try my best to be antiracist, but I wouldn’t call it an identity. I don’t know if I’ve “shown up” enough to call myself an “ally”. The work is not a central part of my day or identity, so I can’t say I’m an ally. I do believe they exist, but acknowledge that dismantling racist institutions isn’t a focus of my everyday life. I’ve read several anti-racist text, and I think I get it, but I also try to listen to black voices who critique some of the most popular anti-racist authors. And I read these dialogues, try to learn from them, think about what’s said, and then stay out of the conversation because I’m a white person. I don’t know if that makes sense. In the classroom, I choose to expose the accomplishments and failures of all races through each others’ lenses. Like my politics and religion, my personal racial beliefs are immaterial and I shield them from my students. always trying to do better each day Merit and character are how I choose to see all my students I think that all people have some form of bias but that there can also be good in the world. We are all humans and that is what needs to taught. Q20 - On the political/ideological spectrum, where do you identify yourself? Unsure (please explain) unsure (please explain) - Text Libertarian I’ve always voted Democrat, and that’s associated with being liberal. But I’m also skeptical of what the Democratic Party has really done to make our society more equitable? It’s a lot of bullshit. I honestly would have voted against anyone but Trump.. His racism, misogyny, the potential he had to destroy any of our systems that are somewhat democratic, and the Supreme Court balance were enough to make me vote against him. I would vote against him a million times if I could. I was a Liz Warren girl in the primary, and believe emphatically that we need to expand the Supreme Court to try and protect any voting rights that we have in place. These choices are too simple. I have many libral beliefs, especially in areas of personal dignity, but they are grounded in a profound admiration for the possibilities offered by the Constitution, which leads me to some more moderate views on areas like economics and personal religious freedom. It depends on the issue Q21 - Do you now, or have you ever, taught Critical Race Theory in your classes? 6-12 Social Studies Teachers’ Reporting on Use of Critical Race Theory in Classroom - I use Critical Race Theory currently: 2% - I used to include Critical Race Theory but don’t anymore: 1% - I have never used Critical Race Theory in my classroom: 46% - I have no idea what Critical Race Theory is & therefore don’t intentionally use it in my classroom: 16% - I wish I could incorporate Critical Race Theory but I don’t: 5% - I include the concepts and lessons of Critical Race Theory, but I don’t call it that: 31% Q22 - How familiar are you with the term "antiracism" Secondary Social Studies Teachers' Familiarity with the Term "Antiracism" - Not familiar at all (10%) - Slightly familiar (17%) - Moderately familiar (27%) - Very familiar (30%) - Extremely familiar (15%) Q23 - Do you believe 6-12 social studies should intentionally incorporate antiracism in its curriculum? Secondary Social Studies Teachers Who Believe Antiracism Should Intentionally Be Incorporated Into Curriculum - Definitely not (6%) - Probably not (15%) - Probably yes (43%) - Definitely yes (36%) Q24 - To what extent do you have autonomy/independence in selecting which content you will teach in your classroom? Reported Teacher Curricular Autonomy in the 6-12 Social Studies Classroom - I have complete autonomy but choose to collaborate with colleagues: 26% - I have complete autonomy: 25% - I am mostly directed what content to teach by my department/district: 21% - I am required to collaborate with colleagues: 20% - I am completely directed what content to teach by my department/district: 8% Q25 - To what extent do you have freedom to select/create resources that you will teach in the classroom? Reported Teacher Freedom in Choosing Resources for their 6-12 Social Studies Classroom - I have complete freedom: 42% - I have complete freedom but I choose to collaborate with colleagues: 29% - I am required to collaborate with colleagues: 16% - I am mostly directed by my department/district which resources to use in my classroom: 12% - I am completely directed by my department/district which resources to use in my classroom: 3% Q26 - In what ways have you learned about antiracism, if at all? (select all that apply) Q27 - In what ways, if any, have you included antiracism in your pedagogy? (select all that apply) How 6-12 Social Studies Teachers Have Included Antiracism in their Pedagogy - I am unfamiliar with antiracism: 8% - I am have heard the term but I don’t incorporate it into my classroom: 14% - I have informally included antiracist concepts in classroom discussion: 36% - I have been given resources by colleagues/peers to include antiracism in my curriculum: 8% - I have been given resources by my department/district to include antiracism in my curriculum: 4% - I have designed lessons specifically discussing antiracism: 14% - I have integrated antiracism into as many units and curricula as I possible can: 12% - Other: 3% Other fill in the blank for How 6-12 Social Studies Teachers Have Included Antiracism in their Pedagogy other – Text Do my best to include but wouldn’t call it formal Antiracist APUSH website lessons I have probably taught antiracist ideas, but I work in a state that does not acknowledge or approve of terms like this. I am very familiar with anti racism and do not include it in my classroom. I believe that antiracism is a misnomer as it often creates racism from what I have seen. Therefore I will not incorporate it into lessons. I lead and/or encourage discussions on the impact of racism and encourage students to fight against it So I teach post classical world history to 7th graders. I emphatically believe that one of many reasons that my curriculum matters (in terms of a survey world history course) is that ALL students needs to see themselves in history, and I try to work hard to make that happen (I probably face the same dilemma as any world history teacher in that it’s hard to feel like you do any part of the world “justice” when teaching world history). But I have fought colleagues again and again who just want to teach about Europe all year. I’ve fought colleagues who want to “take Africa out” of our curriculum time and again. Sometimes I get questioned over the importance of teaching history that’s as old as this time period. The idea that Black students will only or first see themselves in history when learning about slavery is nauseating bullshit. I enjoy teaching about a world before colonization. I’ll never feel like I do a good enough job making it truly global, but I’m always going to try to do so as much as possible. I teach Ethnic Studies, so we use specific vocabulary to discuss anthracite behavior I am teaching history through documents and not through a crafted lens Q28 - Do you ever share your own political or social ideologies/opinions in your classroom? 6-12 Social Studies Teachers Sharing Their Political/Social Ideologies in Class Other - fill in the blank 6-12 Social Studies Teachers Sharing Their Political/Social Ideologies in Class Other - Text Yes, because I believe those I teach need to know my leanings. They also know my political thought are more complicated than on political ideology. I try to be as ambiguous as possible We teach guidelines. If I ever inject opinions, my kids know that. My place is to train my kids to think for themselves! It is wrong to let students know your beliefs. It is our responsibility to teach them to become critical thinkers I play both sides of the fence. My students consistently identify me a little further left of center, though I find myself a little more right of center. I remain neutral and show understanding for both sides Political --no; social -- yes Rarely We have an obligation as professionals to maintain objectivity at all times as much as possible. I never identify my political or religious views, but my students are able to ascertain them by how I teach. For example, I teach about fairness to all - not just to a protected class, so my students can guess that I am Democrat. Only when asked by students and after clarifying that they want my personal opinions, not that of the school or education system itself Sometimes; when I do, I make it clear that it is my opinion, and provide context and reasons for my beliefs. I try to illustrate all viewpoints into my lessons Q29 - Do you have conversations about controversial topics in your classroom? Controversial Conversations in 6-12 Social Studies Classrooms in the U.S. - Frequently: 37% - Sometimes: 52% - I try not to but have: 7% - Never: 4% Q30 - To the best of your ability, please rank the order of how much these groups of people are included in your daily curriculum/lessons/resources. (please note these racial groupings are the 6 major groups as identified by the U.S. Census Bureau). Reported Percentage of Racial Group Representation in 6-12 Social Studies Curriculum - **Asian/Asian-American** - Has the most representation: 6% - Has the 2nd most representation: 14% - Has the 3rd most representation: 32% - Has the 3rd to last amount: 39% - Has the 2nd to last amount: 2% - Has the least amount: 2% - **Black/African/African-American** - Has the most representation: 11% - Has the 2nd most representation: 68% - Has the 3rd most representation: 5% - Has the 3rd to last amount: 11% - Has the 2nd to last amount: 1% - Has the least amount: 1% - **Indigenous/Native Alaskan** - Has the most representation: 4% - Has the 2nd most representation: 32% - Has the 3rd most representation: 11% - Has the 3rd to last amount: 25% - Has the 2nd to last amount: 4% - Has the least amount: 2% - **Latinx** - Has the most representation: 9% - Has the 2nd most representation: 35% - Has the 3rd most representation: 26% - Has the 3rd to last amount: 2% - Has the 2nd to last amount: 1% - Has the least amount: 1% - **Native Hawaiian/Pacific Islander** - Has the most representation: 1% - Has the 2nd most representation: 83% - Has the 3rd most representation: 12% - Has the 3rd to last amount: 1% - Has the 2nd to last amount: 2% - Has the least amount: 1% - **White** - Has the most representation: 74% - Has the 2nd most representation: 10% - Has the 3rd most representation: 3% - Has the 3rd to last amount: 6% - Has the 2nd to last amount: 1% - Has the least amount: 1% Asian/Asian-American Black/African/African-American Indigenous/Native Alaskan Latinx Native Hawaiian/Pacific Islander white Most Included 2nd most included 3rd most included 4th most included second to least included Least included Reported Percentage of Racial Group Representation in 6-12 Social Studies Curriculum - **White**: - Has the most amount of representation: 74% - Has the 2nd most amount of representation: 10% - Has the 3rd most amount of representation: 3% - Has the 2nd least amount of representation: 1% - Has the least amount of representation: 83% - **Native Hawaiian/Pacific Islander**: - Has the most amount of representation: 1% - Has the 2nd most amount of representation: 0% - Has the 3rd most amount of representation: 5% - Has the 2nd least amount of representation: 1% - Has the least amount of representation: 83% - **Latinx**: - Has the most amount of representation: 4% - Has the 2nd most amount of representation: 9% - Has the 3rd most amount of representation: 26% - Has the 2nd least amount of representation: 22% - Has the least amount of representation: 4% - **Indigenous/Native Alaskan**: - Has the most amount of representation: 4% - Has the 2nd most amount of representation: 11% - Has the 3rd most amount of representation: 32% - Has the 2nd least amount of representation: 25% - Has the least amount of representation: 4% - **Black/African/African-American**: - Has the most amount of representation: 11% - Has the 2nd most amount of representation: 1% - Has the 3rd most amount of representation: 4% - Has the 2nd least amount of representation: 1% - Has the least amount of representation: 1% - **Asian/Asian-American**: - Has the most amount of representation: 6% - Has the 2nd most amount of representation: 14% - Has the 3rd most amount of representation: 32% - Has the 2nd least amount of representation: 39% - Has the least amount of representation: 3% Reported Percentage of Racial Group Representation in 6-12 Social Studies Curriculum Racial Group Most Often Included - Black/African/African-American: 15% - white: 74% - All Others: 11% Racial Group 2nd Most Often Included - Asian/Asian-American: 6% - Black/African/African-American: 68% - Indigenous/Native Alaskan: 9% - Latinx: 11% - Native Hawaiian/Pacific Islander: 6% - white: 6% Racial Group 3rd Most Often Included - Asian/Asian-American: 14% - Black/African/African-American: 16% - Indigenous/Native Alaskan: 32% - Latinx: 26% - Native Hawaiian/Pacific Islander: 2% - white: 10% Racial Group 4th Most Often Included - Asian/Asian-American: 32% - Indigenous/Native Alaskan: 25% - Latinx: 35% - All Others: 8% Q31 - Do you believe all of the above racial groupings SHOULD be included/taught in every unit in a social studies classroom? Briefly explain your answer. Should Every Racial Grouping Be Represented/Included in Every Unit in a 6-12 Social Studies Curriculum? Should Every Racial Grouping Be Represented/Included in Every Unit in a 6-12 Social Studies Curriculum? YES response word cloud Q31_2 TEXT - No No - Text The topic of race is not part of the social studies curriculum. Learning about different cultures as it relates to countries and beliefs systems is. Race is too complicated for most k-12 teachers and there would be massive mistakes made. only when relevant to time or place Not every unit but more often It would be too time consuming. There are not enough time in a school year to incorporate the individual groups into every unit. That isn't always a practical solution. Different units focus on different aspects of history and should be reflective of the impact or role of different groups but every group cannot be discussed at every time Not every group was involved in certain topics. too much content, but definitely address different pov Depending on what is being covered, there may be groups worth including, but not ALL groups are relevant ALL the time. It is helpful to teach a variety of viewpoints though to get a full perspective. I would include ALL groups of people that are directly involved/influential during the specific time span and location. It depends on the topic. Some groups were not present for every topic. I only say no because not every unit of study is directly related to every subpopulation. It depends on the topic focus. Not every group was involved in every aspect of history. They should not be included simply to say that they have been included. We should talk about the achievements of each group, but not artificially include them all in every unit. Not all races are pertinent to every single unit. I include any that are relevant to the lesson, but I am not putting something in my limited time just to check some sort of quota It depends upon the class you are teaching. I would not include Pacific Islander history in a Class focused on the Holocaust Not all groups a part of every unit I teach Because not every group is part of every lesson. All in every unit seems like it's a lot of potential content to cover without much depth. I believe all should definitely be included across the curriculum and year; but making it a numbers game doesn't seem authentic. Not all of them fit into every time period of US history, at least as far as I know. I include them when they are relevant to US history. I don’t have time in the school year to include groups at times that they aren’t in the US in noticeable numbers It shouldn’t be added just to meet criteria if it isn’t in the curriculum In teaching US history, there is a geographic and chronological context that makes sense. While it is natural to discuss issues of power and representation re: white/black/indigenous/women at the Constitutional convention, Latinx or Pacific Islanders are not even a part of the social mix at the time. Social Studies is also not just history. Would you inject racial groupings into basic economic instruction on supply/demand or discussion of checks and balances in government class? In Global Studies would you add every group into our study of regions even if it doesn't really make sense? In our look at Nigeria, here is Latinx? Good curriculum design is not one-sized fits all. I believe that we should incorporate racial groups as much as possible, but not all groups fit into every unit of instruction If they were not there during that historical time period, that is not factual. Sometimes the info/topic is not relevant If they were not present during a certain time period Certain societies and/or cultures do not include multiculturalism, although simultaneous timelines could be shown. These however confuse some students. Depends completely on the content being taught. Depending on the unit, some of these groups would not fit. However, all 6 of these groups should be taught at some point throughout the year. Some chronological History does not include all racial groups. I try to stay on topic. Teach the history as it appears. Tell the truth. A racial lense should not be the dominant lens that we use to look at history. I don't feel the need to include white when discussing Asia or Latinx when discussing Africa. I try to include relevant info as needed. They are not all relevant to every unit In every single unit? That would be silly and impossible. Depends on what you mean. Representation of each group for each historical topic/unit would likely be cumbersome, those go thematic teaching can get a broader range of representation. When I show people “doing” history, I show all groups as equally as possible. It would depend upon the unit. For example, all of these terms would be out of place in a unit on ancient Greece. Unfortunate truth is that history (in the US) has mostly been recorded and done by white people. You can try to force POC being included but it would basically be, “they were enslaved”. Come Civil War, Spanish-American War and immigration history, race is not a huge factor in history. They should be taught if they are involved in the topic. I think this question is unclear. It’s possible I’m misunderstanding the question, but I don’t feel that all units/events necessarily lend themselves to discussing how different races experienced them; some can be painted in broad strokes without an examination of race. But certainly where there are significant and/or intentional disparities in how different races experienced different events, then that ought to be examined. It depends upon the unit and context. I believe that individuals and events should be taught about if they are important to the subject matter of the class. An individual should not be taught about simply because of their skin color or gender. Not all groups apply to all topics, but when they do, they need to be included. I try to point out injustice and ask students how they feel about the situations and what they think shod be done to fix them. I teach about the groups that are relevant to the time period and units being taught Yes when it fits the curriculum but no when it would be inserted in a false way Sometimes it just doesn’t make sense to include each group in each lesson. But every group deserves recognition throughout the yearlong curriculum There is not enough time to cover all groups. Moreover, the information must be reparable to the standards some units are either gender or racially specific, so it would be difficult to be totally inclusive in every unit. Each unit should include any and all perspectives, but not forced I am held to a content that I need to cover. While I cover many racial groups throughout the year, some groups are not represented in each unit of medieval history. I think some units lend themselves to a specific focus Not every unit includes these groups of people. Race should not be forced into curriculum just to add it. When learning about Ancient Rome there is not reason to include race or cultures of people from other parts of the world unless talking about trade routes. Same applies to slavery in North America, there is no reason to talk about Hawaiian, Alaskan, or Asain people. Race should not be forced unto a unit, race should only be included if it belongs. For example, in US History when teaching about ancient civilization in the Americas, it doesn’t make sense to teach about white or black people. I teach the groups that relevant to the subject I’m teaching, I don’t have time to included all groupd Not all. If I’m teaching Judicial Review it’s a matter of constitutional application. It depends on the class and the state requirements for the class content. The way some of my standards are written I don’t know how I would include certain people groups because they’re not part of the curriculum that I teach. For example I asked teach world history but none of that includes native Americans or pacific islanders. I teach ancient civilizations so some of these groups might not fit into a unit. In American history, a variety of cultures should be recognized. I teach by region in my ss classes I teach special ed and while I believe all tue grouos shoukd be taught I am not sure how I can do that without confusing or overwhelming my students I don’t think it’s necessary in every single unit but it is good to get multiple perspectives of each time period being taught. I believe they should be included when relevant I teach Ancient History. If I am teaching a unit on Ancient Egypt, talking about Native Americans in that unit simply doesn’t make sense. If it is relevant yes, but it shouldn't be forced. Sometimes, a unit may not pertain to a specific group. I’m not entirely sure that my students need to know about every atrocity that occurred to every group of people. I would never get through my state mandated curriculum if I did that. I think it depends on the content. A unit on European exploration of the Americas will not really make sense if it focuses on Asian/Pacific Islanders. All history units do not address all subgroups Not in every unit because that is too much information. But definitely in every course. History should be taught as objectively and factually based as possible, and should not be slanted or biased to include a particular group just for the sake of inclusion. Multiple perspectives should be brought in to foster critical thinking and allow students to choose their own line of thinking, including deeper study on various groups & individuals. I do not believe Social Studies should try to teach on people and cultures simply for the sake of doing so at the expense of standards. Not every issue has to do with those groups - for example, why would I teach about Indigenous Americans in a Unit on Ancient Rome and Greece? I suppose a better way of putting it is is SHOULD all those groupings history be covered, to which I say yes. I teach World History and sometimes other groups do not have a presence in the unit we are covering. Every unit? Not always applicable. A reconstruction unit doesn’t lend itself to Pacific Islanders, for example. When the group is involved historically in the time period, it should be included. Asian and Hawaiian peoples where not present in South Carolina (to my knowledge). However, Indigenous and African Americans are included from day 1. I think you have to teach about the groups of people who were/are included in the content. You teach the topic as it occurred. Often his/SS does not include all peoples. I think it depends on what content is being taught. For example, if I am teaching a lesson on medieval empires of India, I don’t think it’s applicable to teach about indigenous or LatinX communities. So it depends on what’s being taught. Some do not apply to my units Should be taught but not in every unit. Not every group is in my state standards. It is hard to connect some people to certain topics. I do believe we should have lessons about everyone but not every unit. Texas History units typically do not include all of these groups Again, I teach world. I do my best to honor the religious and ethnic diversity of what I teach. I Not relevant in every unit I believe every group should be included when the lessons/history calls for them. I do not think groups should be inserted into lessons if their contributions are nonexistent. My standards and required ancient history curriculum do not include African kingdoms or indigenous/native peoples from Alaska or Hawaii. Not every unit. But when those groups are directly involved in the topic of study. A lot of my curriculum is regional so it doesn't always include every group but I do cover every group in every region as it makes sense Whenever it applies, yes. There could be units in, say, a state history course, where you wouldn’t incorporate a particular ethnic group because they were not present at the time. Otherwise, yes. Of course not! If I am teaching about China’s Cultural Revolution, then I am teaching about an Asian population (which sadly combines a vast continent of different ethnicities) I teach Eastern Civ, so talking about Asian/African culture is what I do. You can find ways here and there, but it just depends on your subject area. Some topics/lessons/units don’t pertain to certain groups. When I’m teaching about Ancient Rome, I’m probably not going to talk about Pacific Islanders because the two are unrelated. At other points, I will discuss all the groups because they’re all affected. It is difficult if not impossible to include in every unit with depth and sensitivity. I believe they should all equally be apart of the curriculum but cannot be taught in every unit without education of each group becoming shallow or just “fun facts” Conceptually they may not fit the curriculum, for example my 7th history doesn’t cover the us, so covering African Americans literally wouldn’t happen. We cover Egypt, kush, and west African kingdoms. We cover India (not mentioned above) china, Persia, and much of the ancient world. But your survey tends to be sided toward us history social studies curriculum. It would be impossible to teach about every racial grouping in every unit. Each group should be taught about, but not every unit. Every unit… No. That doesn’t make sense. Also, teachers have enough people dictating what needs to be in every lesson. It's impossible to check every box. I think racial groupings should be taught with purpose. If we try to teach all of them out of necessity it won't be done correctly. Not every topic will deal with all of these groups at the same time. Not all of those groups apply to some units of study. If a group applies, they should definitely be taught about. Only because in teach US History it would not make sense and seem forced in early units. But in later units, the should all be included. I don’t think it is possible for every unit, and some instances it applies more than others. I do incorporate “deep dive” in each unit where students can learn more about an aspect of history not covered to their level of interest and actively encourage students to explore and provide material on marginalized groups. Not every group fits into every single lesson/unit in the vast discipline of Social Studies. It depends on the time period and area of the world. they are all not always relevant to a unit I feel like it’s hard to include sometimes without "reaching" There are some instances where they may not necessarily fit into the narrative in a US History class, and it might not fit. However they should receive adequate representation in units where they do show up. Should Every Racial Grouping Be Represented/Included in Every Unit in a 6-12 Social Studies Curriculum? Yes response word bubble - 15 words Should Every Racial Grouping Be Represented/Included in Every Unit in a 6-12 Social Studies Curriculum? NO response word bubble - 50 words Q31_1 TEXT - Yes Yes - Text It is hard to include all when we have so much to cover. The year starts with the Renaissance and ends with Climate Change! Every culture is involved in the history of the United States and need to be included in teachings. It is vital to teach all perspectives and have their narrative heard. Learners should be given the opportunity to analyze multiple sources in order to have a vast understanding of race in multiple contexts. For instance, in teaching the Enlightenment and Revolutionary era, it is important to facilitate scholars’ learning with sources from European and American Enlightenment thinkers, while also providing scholars the ability to see historical complexities as it relates to US-Native American relations, slavery and freedom as expressed by Black Enlightenment thinkers such as Phillis Wheatley and Benjamin Banneker, and the global revolutions during this period. One strategy I have used while teaching this period is exploring the role of Black and Native Americans in the revolutionary war as Patriots and Loyalists and used two Wheatley poems, “On Being Brought from Africa to America” and “His Excellency General Washington,” and Benjamin Banneker’s Almanack and Ephemeris to discuss race, nation, war, neoclassicism, constitutionalism, and foreign policy. Everyone needs to see representation in our learning It would be best practices, but our Texas TEKS & state mandated test level little time for it. Depends on the content though because question 30 is not accurate for Ancient World History. Yes, if my standards are about that particular race To the extent that they are involved in the topic at hand. For the most part they should be and I do I think it is important to include as many groups as possible. Especially if you have children of those cultures in your class All experiences should be included All of these groups of people are part of our nation. To provide a full picture you must include all of these groups. I think where appropriate, representation matters All of these groups comprise the people of America. We need to know who we are to understand our past. All people deserve recognition and to have their stories told. Kids need to know all perspectives equally The United States are not completely white so why would we ignore massive groups of people All of these groups have a relevant part in world history, and as a result, should be part of the story. However, they may not have a role in every unit because history sometimes only impacts certain groups of people or geographic locations. It is the only way to tell the complete story of the human race. Each racial group is part of social studies and should be included throughout. The above groups represent the students who are sitting in my class. Every student should see themselves in the curriculum. Yes, including all racial groupings and exposing students to all cultures will increase empathy and reduce racist ideas, even if students are exposed to white supremacist values at home To an extent, yes. All of them should be included and are included in my curriculum. The issue is time and following the state standards that I’m required to teach. Every student deserves to see themselves in the curriculum, and every student deserves to see the whole picture in the curriculum. In order to understand diversity, you have to provide diverse learning and contributions each group has made to the world. Different points of view matter They should when it applies to the topic. We are currently teaching ancient Egypt, so many of these groups would not apply to what we are learning. However, we do talk about social class, economic status, etc and how that applies to current social triangles. Our world is multicultural so it’s important to teach social studies through the lens of multiple perspectives. Because all voices should be heard All ethnicities should be treated as worthy of understanding Might be difficult in every unit but covered thoroughly throughout quarter or semester. The better rounded the exposure the better. If they were in America, their story deserves to be told. But I don’t know how, have the time to research, ability to integrate due to stands that are required to be taught American history is a diverse subject and this our lessons should reflect that I think We should teach about ALL the people who make up America. In theory we should be inclusive, but in practice there isn’t enough time to include everything. Each grade level provides great opportunity to hear different voices, ideas, and culture. More importantly, antiracism it’s very relatable for adolescents, which makes it a powerful tool to help students find a sense of conviction and agency These are the groups that comprise our country and we should talk about their history We should find a way to include as many people and backgrounds and history from as many groups as we can. Our classrooms are made up of diversity. If our students can see themselves reflected in our lessons they will be more interested in them Our students need to see themselves and learn about others’ perspectives. So that all are represented. I currently teach a Black and Latino Studies course, but try to discuss other underrepresented groups when historical systemic prejudices intersect. While we do not focus much on white people, specifically, the institutions and systems put in place for 400+ years requires us to do so. I believe in teaching the different perspectives of people in history. We are currently learning about Mexican-American war, I’m using a Howard Zinn lesson that gives rich Mexicans, poor Mexicans, American soldiers, abolitionists, Mexican female perspective, Native American perspective as well as African American perspective. There is even a primary source of Mexican catholic priest and American Protestant preacher to give religious perspective As a global history teacher, we need to focus on everyone It would be great but time is limited Yes They play a role in all major periods and themes in history classes I already do American history deals with more than one race I include as many relevant figures as I can regardless of race by their contributions to a changing and evolving America. I don’t think I need to have a quota of any certain race to include in my instruction. I teach in a community of very diverse populations. It is important that my lessons represent my students. Where appropriate and useful in the content Should they be - yes. Is it possible in a survey course with a department-wide common exam each semester - if it is I have not figured it out yet. However, I am bound to teach to a state test which is completely white-centered Each has impacted or been impacted by the other. Historical truth and accuracy is needed for ALL students. Yes- but it does depend on the unit and topic. French Revolution does t involve many demographics. I honestly don't know how this is possible due to class time and the availability of resources. History is history; everyone who is a part needs included It is important to show how ones culture and views can be shaped and perceived from other perspective and not just by white, western, ideology. All groups have contributed to the past and present and therefore should be included, but not at the expense of one another. History should be taught as the facts happened, not through a 21st lens of oppressor vs victim. White children should not be taught they are from a line of oppressors nor should minority students be taught they are only victims. If there is time in the curriculum and the teacher is knowledgeable, then it should be done. Social studies has many perspectives This is America all its people should be included in discussions I teach American history starting at around the Gilded Age to present. We track themes in every unit which includes social concerns and equality. We look at how life was impacted for different groups of Americans from gender and wealth classes to race and ethnic city Right now the only group who is taught and spent time on in history is white Everyone should be included and represented in social studies throughout a child’s educational career. I absolutely believe that but it can be incredibly difficult to find resources that assist with that. We need to know what each group was doing at the same time as another. I didn’t know Asians or Irish people were in America before the 1900’s until adulthood. To show how history has affected different racial groups All of these groups have impacted history, and their presence has made those in power make specific choices. We live in a diverse society and the curriculum should reflect that. It depends on what you are teaching and if those groups were impacted History should be a comprehensive lesson of ALL the people involved and their motivation for their actions. When applicable, yes. Currently, I teach Texas history so it is hard to include in every unit. I currently teach Texas History so I am not able to include all groups into every unit. I do include as much history for each group as they come about during the history of Texas. And continue following them from that point on in every unit. It's history, and history should be all inclusive. History is about perspective. You can’t teach history without the perspectives of every group involved in events throughout history. I think it would be overwhelming, depending on the curriculum you are teaching, but I think all groups should be represented in a social studies classroom I teach world history. Race is not a major focus. It’s important to include all groups in the classroom to try to teach diversity and acceptance of groups other than our own. The content I teach is world cultures, therefore in order to adequately do my job, every racial group’s culture and traditions must be given the same amount of attention to better understand each other. To reach all of my students to make sure they understand more than great man white history All of these groups of people are vital to understanding the history of America and the world on a holistic level. It is important for students to see themselves represented in their school experience, including while studying history or current events. It is equally important for students to see people of different cultures in order to see a more holistic picture of everyone's contribution to society and history. A view of us history is incomplete without a full view. They all deserve mentioning. Even if only by the student who represents that people group. In order to create relevance, yes Races and ethnic groups, past and present. It’s easy for me with the school I’m at, but yes every event should have a focus on how it affected all races involved. It might be difficult to include every group into every unit. Modern history can easily be very Eurocentric in nature. History teachers need to actively incorporate the history of other counties and cultures. (Furthermore, that history should start before European involvement in that place. There is a difference between learning about pre-colonial and pre-slavery empires in Africa vs. just learning about African history through the scope of the narrative of slavery and colonialism.) Children need inclusive learning communities. The only way to challenge stereotypes is by challenging them through educating. It gives students the complete story, truth Only when applicable. No Pacific Islander in constitution era. It is not true history if we don’t include all racial groupings in our teaching. Classically underrepresented groups of our population should and can be discussed in every period of US history all are a part of history People need to know history of all cultures and people The world is so interconnected that every group has importance to every region. All people should be included in a natural way, such as in the exposition of Lewis and Clark the Indigenous peoples need to be learned about. We should learn about various experiences that are not our own. Students should be able to connect with lessons as much as possible. Only, If relevant to the content to get different perspective. However, it should not be forced just to be included. For example, Asians and Pacific Islanders do not need to be included in Early US Colonial history. It's a nice theory, but time restrictions limit how much each group can be covered. Treating them like a buffet line with a taste of this and that is more disrespectful than choosing to emphasize different groups in different classes. It's easy for us to discount the contributions of the non-white groups listed, but they have contributed to our country and world more than many realize. If it makes sense to include them then they should be included, but if it doesn't make sense then don't try to force it. I don't know how to include Asian in lesson on the founding fathers. It wouldn't make a lot of sense, but to not include African or Indigenous would be inappropriate. Yes, america is a melting pot of immigration and each group should be taught I think that each of the group has had a valid and important experience in the U.S. and that should be reflected in lessons US History is the history of all of us, not some of us. All perspectives and peoples should be included in the lessons to give better understands of all viewpoints. America is the great melting pot. Although oppressed and limited in their impact, the stories of minority groups should be considered and discussed in social studies classes. | 67085191-18fa-460a-bfb7-851e343978f5 | https://ir-api.ua.edu/api/core/bitstreams/1552fddd-4e93-4731-946a-050ddac441d1/content | HuggingFaceFW/finepdfs-edu | Arranging Marbles in Boxes Date: 09/16/98 at 19:38:20 From: Chris Subject: Probability Six marbles are placed in one of three different boxes. What is the probability that each box contains two marbles? What is the formula used for this type of problem? Date: 09/17/98 at 11:21:12 From: Doctor Anthony Subject: Re: Probability You can model the situation as follows: |****| |**| where the | | represent boxes and the * are marbles. In the above diagram we have 4, 0, and 2 marbles in the three boxes, respectively. Now this diagram must begin and end with a | but otherwise the two remaining |'s and six *'s can be arranged in any order, and each of these orders is considered equally likely. So we have 8 objects to arrange in every possible way, 2 of one kind being alike and 6 of a second kind being alike. This can be done in: 8! ------ = C(8,2) = 28 ways. 2!6! [ If you haven't done permutations and combinations yet you should obtain a textbook on elementary probability and read up on the topic. It is essential knowledge for this type of question. There is also some information in this archive's FAQ to get you started. http://mathforum.org/dr.math/faq/faq.comb.perm.html ] So there are 28 possible arrangements of the marbles in the 3 boxes and only one of these will have two marbles in each box, so the required probability is: 1/28 - Doctor Anthony, The Math Forum http://mathforum.org/dr.math/ Search the Dr. Math Library: Ask Dr. MathTM © 1994-2013 The Math Forum | <urn:uuid:e0ed4231-db6f-4fb5-93a4-292200b59f91> | http://mathforum.org/library/drmath/view/56180.html | HuggingFaceFW/fineweb-edu | What The First Amendment Protects And What It Doesn T? What is the First Amendment and what does it protect? What does the 1st Amendment mean in simple terms? freedom of speechThe First Amendment to the U.S. Constitution protects the freedom of speech, religion and the press. It also protects the right to peaceful protest and to petition the government. … The meaning of the First Amendment has been the subject of continuing interpretation and dispute over the years. How does the First Amendment affect us today? Why is defamation not protected by the First Amendment? The Court ruled that the First Amendment protected critics from libel actions of public officials in significant ways. … Today, public figures as well as public officials must prove that a defamatory statement was published with knowledge of falsity or reckless disregard for the truth. What is considered hate speech? Generally, however, hate speech is any form of expression through which speakers intend to vilify, humiliate, or incite hatred against a group or a class of persons on the basis of race, religion, skin color sexual identity, gender identity, ethnicity, disability, or national origin. Why is freedom of speech limited? Those who favor the limited liberty to speech do not deny its benefits of allowing people to express their thoughts but all they desire is to protect all those rights e.g. right to life, privacy and security of a person that has been largely violated due to excessive power of speech specifically the hate speech or … What the First Amendment protects and what it does not Newsela answers? Press Freedom The Supreme Court has made clear that the First Amendment protects statements made about public officials unless they are false and intended to defame. Only “reckless disregard for the truth” is not protected. Furthermore, the media can publish information from classified documents. Does the First Amendment protect lies? In United States constitutional law, false statements of fact are an exception from protection of free speech under the First Amendment. In United States law, a false statement of fact will not be exempt from some civil or criminal penalty, if a law has imposed one. What does the First Amendment mean in your own words? First Amendment. An amendment to the United States Constitution guaranteeing the rights of free expression and action that are fundamental to democratic government. These rights include freedom of assembly, freedom of the press, freedom of religion, and freedom of speech. What is the most important amendment? How is the First Amendment used today? Is dangerous speech protected? United States,[1] the Supreme Court announced the “clear and present danger” test; that is, speech is not protected when it is used “in such circumstances and… of such a nature as to create a clear and present danger that they will bring about substantive evils that [the government] has a right to prevent.” The opinion … What does the 1st Amendment not protect? What is not protected speech? “Not all speech is protected. … The Supreme Court has called the few exceptions to the 1st Amendment “well-defined and narrowly limited.” They include obscenity, defamation, fraud, incitement, true threats and speech integral to already criminal conduct. What does the 2st Amendment mean? What are the limits to freedom of speech? What is a real life example of the First Amendment? 1st Amendment Example Involving the Establishment Clause One notable case example on the 1st Amendment is that of Everson v. Board of Education, 330 U.S. 1 (1947). A New Jersey school authorized reimbursement by school boards for transportation to and from school, including private schools. Is it illegal to lie about who you are? It’s illegal to knowingly falsify material information to authorities in the course of their duties. This class of offenses includes perjury, false identification to police, official fraud, &c. It’s illegal to lie to someone for the purpose of taking their money or stuff, that is called theft by deception. | <urn:uuid:a46ed18f-00b0-4773-9f7e-23fd58245723> | https://cardactivationinfo.com/qa/what-the-first-amendment-protects-and-what-it-doesn-t.html | mlfoundations/dclm-baseline-1.0-parquet | This paper must 1) examine and critique a definition of money found in an economics textbook, and 2) examine and critique one or two contemporary “discourses about money” in light of what we learned in class and your own research. The point of the final paper is to research a topic of your own, like a time period and a place and what you can learn about money and what that tells you about the time, place, and if possible our time and place. It should be around ten pages or so. Annotated bibliography is needed. Short Description:This course examines monetary systems as material and politically contingent phenomena, from palace economies, cowrie shells, and metallic coinages to modern money and student debt. Long Description:What is money? Orthodox theories, from Karl Marx to Econ 101, tend to see money as a veil over what is really going on, and the goal of the critique of money to look past or through money to the play of Value and Utility going on behind it. When this has been done, in Marxs words, the mystery of money will immediately disappear. In this course, we explore an alternative view according to which money can be better understood not by looking beyond it, but directly at it: what happens if we examine money as a material and politically contingent phenomenon in its own right, rather than merely as a metaphor or a sign of something besides itself? Rather than begin by assuming uncritically that the classic three functions of money (unit of account, means of exchange, and store of value) are naturally united in a single thing called money, we examine these functions separately with an eye to the tensions that arise between them, and trace a deep history of monetary systems as the outcome of a process of negotation and contestation. Topics considered include palace economies, cowrie shells, metallic coinages, the modern monetary revolution, and contemporary struggles over student debt. Learning Outcomes:1. Compare and contrast different aspects of the monetary system.2. Analyze social and political struggles over monetary systems.3. Imagine possibilites for the future of monetary systems. - The proposal: Exploting Sustainable Agriculture - Discussion Post 4 - Analysis of the novel All The Light We Cannot See - ANALYSE AND IDEATE A2: Individual Report (Jason 17/04/2023) - Describe the implications of the proposed intervention to nursing education and practice. - Written Response to Full-Class Reading/Viewing Assignment #2 - compare and contrast essay - Medical Report Composition - Find a post (or post a link to) a concept of Communication in Film (photo, short video, brief piece of writing, song, etc –that no one else in the class has posted to the blog yet) related to dealing with coronavirus. You may write about films, songs, etc dealing with isolation, exile, and illness. No two posts can be identical. - Child Psychology | <urn:uuid:f3de2598-eb42-4452-8582-57e3e22e2eb1> | https://strictlywriting.com/history-and-present-of-money/ | HuggingFaceFW/fineweb-edu | New website plugs residents into community Looking for answers about how to live and work in St. Matthews? Whether you are a long-time St. Matthews resident or new to the community, the city’s new website, at www.stmatthews ky.gov, provides the resources to answer many of those questions. Launched in February, the website is easy to navigate with pull-down menus and quick links on its home page. The Government tab provides links to city officials and local, state, and federal representatives, as well to the city’s budget and council meeting minutes. Want to know how to properly park vehicles or vote in St. Matthews? A city ordinance link and a voting link are also found under the Government tab. Links under the Service tab provide information on MSD, Louisville Water, LG&E, ambulances, hospitals, fire, and police. If you have a teen who needs a driver’s license, want to know what you can put in your recycling bin, or need senior care services or a TARC bus route, the Service tab is the place to look. Getting plugged into the neighborhood is as easy as clicking on the Community tab to find area organizations and churches. Under that same tab, you can rent the St. Matthews Community Center for your parents’ 50th wedding anniversary or your daughter’s wedding reception. Area schools and shopping venues may also be found there. If you are making summer plans, check out the city’s parks and pavilion reservations or arrange to attend an event at the local library, also under the Community tab. Stay on that tab to find the local farmers’ markets and a map of St. Matthews you can use to find your way to such points of interest as Burks Cemetery, a hidden, hallowed ground where early 1800s settlers of St. Matthews are buried. For answers to occupational questions about taxes and zoning and for links to permits and license forms, look under the Business tab. Answers regarding business licensing and solicitation registration may also be found there. Quick Links at the bottom of the home page take you directly to some of the most frequently used pages such as city events, parks, and police. Next to those links, you can even check the daily weather. The “How Do I” tab features answers to popular concerns voiced by St. Matthews residents, continued on page 7 A Message From... In March, St. Matthews celebrated 65 years as an incorporated city, but its history goes back much further. In 1774, surveyor John Floyd, after whom Floyd’s Fork is named, purchased 2,000 acres that encompasses what is present day St. Matthews. Floyd is buried in the Floyd-Breckenridge Cemetery on Jamestown Court in St. Matthews. During the summer and fall of 1865, General William T. Sherman’s Union forces were stationed in St. Matthews. A few years later, German and Swiss immigrants began to arrive and farm potatoes and onions on the land, using the railroad to market their produce. The James Brown residence is one of a few early buildings remaining in St. Matthews. Built prior to 1882, the residence is now the club house for Mallard Creek Apartments. Well-known St. Matthews residents have included Bill Schroeder, the second recipient of the Jarvic 7 heart, magician Lance Burton, who gave free performances at St. Matthews Baptist Church, and actor Ned Beatty, who grew up on Grandview Avenue. In its 65 years of incorporation, the city has had only five mayors, including Mayor Richard Tonini, who took office this year. For more on the history of St. Matthews, see Samuel W. Thomas’ book, *St. Matthews – The Crossroads of Beargrass*. The book is available for purchase through the St. Matthews Beargrass Historical Society and the St. Matthews Eline Library, or at local book stores. More information regarding the city’s incorporation may be found on the city’s new website at www.stmatthewsky.gov under the Community tab. Hometown History - 1953 In his *St. Matthews: The Crossroads of Beargrass*, Samuel W. Thomas commented on this photograph: “For decades, this property had been farmed by the Seiderman family, and in later years by the Seiderman sisters. Carolyn Rudy Barth, who lived nearby, remembers that the sisters worked long and hard on their truck farm. Carolyn was sent by her mother to buy vegetables, and she recalls that the cellar rooms were full of potatoes, turnips, onions, and squash. ‘They never went to the bank, and they had drawers of money.’” See page 11 to learn what is located on this land today. Louisville Gas & Electric 502-589-1444 Fast path options are: 1-1-1 (gas) and 1-1-2 (electric). Emergency Contact Numbers Louisville Water Company 502-583-6610 To report emergencies like water main breaks or broken fire hydrants. No plastic bags for yard waste Please remember that, as a matter of law, reusable containers or biodegradable bags must be used for yard waste. Free stickers for your designated yard waste containers are available at city hall. For better identification, two or three stickers for each container are recommended. Paint disposal Your newly painted room looks great. Now what to do with the leftover paint? Dried latex paint can be disposed of with your regularly scheduled trash collection. Just remove the lid and allow the paint to dry in a safe area out of the reach of children and pets. You may also stir in cat litter, sand, shredded paper, or saw dust to help absorb the excess paint. You may recycle oil-based and lead paints through Metro Solid Waste Management’s HAZ BIN disposal program. HAZ BIN is located at 7501 Grade Lane and is open Wednesdays and Saturdays from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. Prescription drug disposal at City Hall Prescription drugs may be dropped into the drug disposal box at St. Matthews City Hall. Due to the overwhelming success of this service, we find it necessary to allow disposal Monday through Friday from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. only. Drugs must be placed loosely in sealed plastic bags. Please remember that sharps, needles, liquids, and nonprescription drugs may NOT be deposited in the box. Use permeable pavers When deciding to install or replace concrete or asphalt features, such as sidewalks, driveways, or patios, consider using specialized asphalt or permeable pavers. These materials allow water to pass through into underlying soil, reducing runoff into gutters, streets, and waterways. In winter months these materials reduce icing by letting the water pass through, rather than pool on the surface. Fertilizer usage Don’t apply fertilizers before a rain storm as they will simply run off into the city’s waterways rather than being absorbed into your lawn or garden. Consider using organic fertilizers as they release nutrients more slowly. Apply fertilizer to the lawn at the proper time and in the proper amount by following the package directions. This can save time, effort, and money through reduced mowing and watering. Recycling is collected every other week on the same day as trash on weeks highlighted in red. Holidays marked in blue will delay recycling and/trash one day. Police Beat Maintaining excellence The St. Matthews Police Department is currently in the process of its fourth reaccreditation through the Kentucky Association of Chiefs of Police. Accreditation allows an outside agency to evaluate the standards and policies of the department to ensure that it is following the best practices for modern law enforcement. Being an accredited agency also provides the city with a reduction in the cost of its liability insurance. SMPD has been accredited for 15 years. CIT training The department is pushing forward to have all of its officers certified in Crisis Intervention Training. CIT gives officers training in alternative means of assisting citizens who are going through crises due to mental illness or substance abuse. Currently, approximately half of SMPD’s officers have had the training. Other officers are being trained as schools become available. New tasers SMPD recently purchased new tasers for every officer in the department. The tasers will be issued once all officers have been trained and certified in their use. Free computer tune-up and repair For several years Rae Taylor, Ray Reese, and Brad Pebble have been gifting the community with their technological know-how. If you have need of a computer tune-up or repair, they will be meeting the first Saturday of each month at the St. Matthews Library from 1-4 p.m. If you have a desktop computer, bring only the computer, as they will have a mouse, keyboard, and monitor on site. There is no charge for the service, and if you need parts to complete a repair, they will show you where you can purchase them and do the installation for you. The service will take place in the second floor meeting room. For more information, visit www.computertuneupandrepair.weebly.com. 2-1-1 United Way: Find resources with one call We all need a little help from time to time and finding the right information quickly is vital. With Metro United Way’s 2-1-1, the answers you are looking for are just a three digit phone call away. Metro United Way’s 2-1-1 directs people looking for resources to help them face life challenges, often for the first time, to the appropriate service provider. A trusted and caring call specialist will listen to the full scope of your issue and connect you immediately to the right source. This easy-to-remember phone number saves time and frustration by eliminating the need to navigate a maze of agencies and help-lines. With 2-1-1 services, there is no longer a wrong number when seeking to find or give help. Should the 2-1-1 number not work from your phone, use 1-877-566-4968. Metro United Way provides many services including those involving basic needs, individual and family life, consumer services, criminal justice and legal services, mental health care and counseling, education, organizational/community/international services, environmental quality, support groups, health care, income support, and employment. Knock, knock. Who’s there? Before you open your door to anyone, find out who is on the other side. If the person knocking is a salesperson or charity worker, ask to see a current City of St. Matthews certificate of registration. Don’t open the door if they say they do not have one with them. Even in this era of online shopping, door-to-door soliciting is common. All commercial solicitors operating within the city – even those just leaving brochures or business cards at residences or businesses – must carry a certificate of registration issued by the City of St. Matthews. A certificate does not imply that the city endorses the business or organization – it simply means they are registered. Any person representing a nonprofit group, whether charitable or religious, must also carry a permit when seeking donations door-to-door or in any public place – and must show it to you when asked. Charitable and religious organizations are exempt from this requirement if they’re just providing information. All Solicitors must respect “No Solicitors” signs and may not solicit prior to 9 a.m. or after 7 p.m. any day of the week, nor at any time on Sunday or on a state or national holiday. Persons under the age of 16 or any person exempted by Louisville Metro Ordinance are not required to have a certificate of registration from the City of St. Matthews. If someone comes to your door and does not have a City of St. Matthews certificate of registration, arrives prior to or after the allowed solicitation time, is unusually persistent, or has ignored a posted “No Solicitation” sign, call the St. Matthews Police Department at 893-9000. Make a habit of protecting your family – ask to see permits! Lock it up Warm weather is coming! Please remember to shut and lock doors and windows whenever you leave your home. Most burglaries are crimes of opportunity. Don’t give the bad guys the opportunity. Hot car warning Never leave children or pets in your car. Cars can reach unsafe temperatures in a matter of minutes when the sun is shining bright. You can be cited or even arrested for leaving children or animals in a hot vehicle. IDthisperson.com Check out the IDthisperson.com website to help identify criminals anonymously. You may receive a $25 reward. New images are posted every day of unidentified suspects. Free house watch SMPD provides free house watches for residents on vacation or away from home for other reasons. Call 893-9000 to schedule your free watch. SMPD Anonymous Tip Line If you have seen something suspicious, you can alert the police anonymously by calling 498-CLUE (2583), Option 1. To report a crime in progress, call SMPD directly at 893-9000. You do not have to give your name. Free paper shred & drug toss on May 16 Senior Care Experts is holding a free shred and drug toss day at their office located at 145 Thierman Lane on Saturday, May 16, from 9-11:30 a.m. They will also accept binders and staples. Metro Louisville Police will be on hand to collect expired or unneeded medications. There is no charge! For more information, call 896-2316. Fireworks safety City of St. Matthews Ordinance § 11.04 states: “It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation or other entity to use or detonate any display fireworks within the City of St. Matthews, except for professionally staged and permitted events.” Never give fireworks – not even sparklers – to children. They are dangerous devices that can cause severe injury and even death. Sparklers cause 16% of fireworks injuries. Whereas water boils at 212 degrees, cakes bake at 350 degrees, wood burns at 575 degrees, and glass melts at 900 degrees, a sparkler burns at 1200 degrees. If you decide to ignore the law and your clothes catch on fire, remember to Stop, Drop, and Roll. Grilling safety There’s nothing like outdoor grilling. It’s one of the most popular ways to cook food. But a grill placed too close to anything that can burn is a fire hazard. Grills can be very hot, causing burn injuries. They should never be left unattended, and children should be kept away from them at all times. To safely use propane grills, check the gas tank hose for leaks before using it at the start of the grilling season. Apply a light soap and water solution to the hose. A propane leak will release bubbles. If you have determined that your grill has a gas leak and there is no flame, turn off the gas tank and grill. If the leak stops, get the grill serviced by a professional before using it again. If the leak does not stop, call the fire department. If you smell gas while cooking, immediately get away from the grill and call the fire department. Do not move the grill. If the flame goes out, turn the grill and gas off and wait at least 15 minutes before relighting it. Always keep the lid open when lighting the grill. Only use starter fluid with charcoal grills, and never apply it to an open flame. When you are finished grilling, allow the coals to cool completely before disposing of them in a metal container. Eline Library: Check it out An Overview of Urban Chicken Keeping May 26, 2:30 p.m. Come learn about the pros and cons of keeping a small flock of chickens in Louisville’s urban setting – what you need to get started and why you would want to. Gentle Yoga June 23, 2:30 p.m. Bring your mat or towel. Scrabble Club May 14 and June 11, 2:30 p.m. Join a group dedicated to playing America’s favorite board game. Movie Discussion Group May 19, 2:30 p.m. The Great Dictator June 16, 2:30 p.m. Field of Dreams Non-Fiction Book Discussion Group May 5, 2:30 p.m. Triple Agent, by Joby Warrick June 2, 2:30 p.m. Life Itself, by Roger Ebert New website continued from page 1 such as how to report potholes or unauthorized solicitors. The Communications tab provides information on St. Matthews’ Call 24/7 System, where you can call 638-4STM to get information or to leave a message for a city official. The same tab provides links to the city newsletter, the Police Anonymous Tip Line at 498-CLUE, and contact information for City of St. Matthews departments. Navigating life and work in St. Matthews has been simplified with the help of the city’s new website. Go exploring not only to find the answers to your questions, but also to learn how you can be a good neighbor and a contributing member of this vibrant community. Code Words Time to mow So you are glad winter is over but haven’t quite yet embraced the lawn duties that come with warmer weather. St. Matthews Ordinance § 94.04 requires that grass be maintained at a height no greater than 8 inches and that all vegetation be properly maintained. This applies to private property as well as to the adjacent public easements and rights-of-way. Besides your front lawn, it is also your responsibility to cut the grass and trim back any vegetation in rear or side easements and alleyways. Parking by the rules While temporary parking of a vehicle on the street is generally allowed, no vehicle is to be left parked on the street for more than 24 hours or it is considered to be abandoned. Because of St. Matthews’ numerous narrow streets, it is important to allow emergency vehicles, such as ambulances and fire trucks, sufficient room to get past any parked vehicles. When two vehicles are parked on the street opposite one another, which has happened several times recently, there is not enough room for these larger vehicles to pass. Keep conscious of the issue and make traveling easier for everyone. Sidewalks are for pedestrians After being cooped up all winter, many of your neighbors with children in strollers, and some with physical limitations, will be using the sidewalks. The sidewalks were built for pedestrians and should be kept free from obstruction. St. Matthews ordinance § 92.03 reminds us that it is illegal to block any portion of a sidewalk at any time. Reel Recovery A fly-fishing retreat is being held at Wooded Glen in Henryville, IN, May 18-20 for men in Louisville and Southern Indiana who are recovering from cancer. Reel Recovery, a national non-profit organization, seeks to help men in the recovery process by sharing with them the healing powers of the sport of fly-fishing while providing a safe, supportive environment to explore their personal experiences with cancer. The retreat is offered at no cost to participants and is led by professional facilitators and expert fly-fishing instructors. Reel Recovery provides all meals, lodging, and fly-fishing equipment, and no previous fishing experience is required. A maximum of 14 men are invited to participate. To learn more about or to apply for this event, go to email@example.com or call 800-699-4490. Seasons Greetings St. Matthews Street Fair May 16 This year’s festival will be held Saturday, May 16, from 11 a.m. to 10 p.m. on Frankfort Avenue between the Lexington Road intersection and Bauer Ave. The Festival highlights community businesses, history, cuisine, and style, while showcasing the area’s retailers, restaurants, live entertainment, and much more. Family fun and activities include the Kidz Zone and the Wellness Fair. Parking is available off site at designated businesses in the surrounding areas. Contact the Chamber of St. Matthews at 899-2523 or go to www.StMatthewsChamber.com for more details. Take me out to the ball game! Ball season has already started in St. Matthews. Head to St. Matthews Community Park from now until June to enjoy one of America’s oldest sports for FREE. Located on Ten Pin Lane across from the Mall St. Matthews, the ball park features talented boys and girls, ages 4 to 15 years, as well as a great refreshment stand where you can purchase a hot dog and cola to complete your visit. Ball games are played Monday through Friday at 6 p.m. Saturday games begin at 10 a.m. and end around 9 p.m. Sunday is reserved for make-up games, due to rain outs, and begin at 1 p.m., if required. For more information on specific times and dates for these FREE events, go to www.stmatthewsbaseballandsoftball.com. The Woman’s Club of St. Matthews Would you like to make a difference in our community? That is exactly the goal of the Woman's Club of St. Matthews, open to women of all ages. WCSM funds various community projects, provides scholarships to five St. Matthews area high schools, a scholarship to an adult woman returning to school after an absence, and works on various other service projects in and around St. Matthews. Members also enjoy multiple social events and educational programs throughout the year. Currently meeting at the St. Matthews Community Center at 310 Ten Pin Lane on the 2nd and 4th Mondays, September through May, WCSM is looking for new members who want to work together to make a difference. Check out its website at www.wcsm.org or call Fran Evola, president, at 445-3040. Founded in 1938, WCSM will be celebrating its 77th birthday and awarding its 2015 scholarships at a luncheon on Monday, May 18, at 11 a.m. For more information or to make a reservation, contact Pat Best at 895-6416. Woman’s Club members visit Raptor Rehab. Alexander Hamilton Historical Society of Kentucky The Alexander Hamilton Historical Society of Kentucky (AHHS) meets in the second floor meeting room of the St. Matthews-Eline Library. All meetings are free and open to the public. Upcoming meeting topics include: **May 16** Attorney Jim Hill will review *Chief Justice John Marshall, Definer of a Nation*, written by Jean Edward Smith. Appointed by President John Adams in 1801, Marshall served as Chief Justice for thirty-five years. **June 20** Dr. Karl Kuhl will review *A Great Improvisation: Franklin, France, and the Birth of America*, written by Stacy Schiff. Ben Franklin, arguably America’s greatest diplomat, negotiates for American independence in Paris. **July 18** Attorney Mark Webster will review *Thomas Jefferson, the Art of Power*, written by Jon Meacham. Jefferson was a skilled philosopher and politician. Come hear about the life and times of this extraordinary man. --- Beargrass Historical Society **Images of America** Authors John Findling and Tom Morton continue to request information for their upcoming book, *Images of America: St. Matthews*. Mr. Morton is present every Wednesday from 10:30 to 12:30 in the Beargrass Historical Society room on the second floor of City Hall. He welcomes anyone who wishes to drop by with stories, old photos (especially pictures of St. Matthews pioneers) and anything to do with potato agriculture, dairies, farms, warehouses, transportation, and festivals, as well as memories of early Shelbyville Road Plaza, the Mall St Matthews, and the Dupoint area. Alternately, appointments can be made with Mr. Morton by contacting him by email at firstname.lastname@example.org or by phone at 396-9406. **May 17, 2 p.m.** Louisville author Michael E. Jones will be with us to discuss his recently published book, *Louisville Jug Music: From Earl McDonald to the National Jubilee*. Louisville is the storied birthplace of jug band music. At the turn of the 20th century, the River City enjoyed the lively, traditional fiddle and guitar tunes of the day like everyone else. But America’s 18th-largest city was harvesting music from an unlikely source, whiskey jugs! The jugs abounded because of the community’s long association with bourbon. In 1903, Kentucky Derby fans first heard the now legendary Louisville Jug Band. That’s the era in which the infectious rhythm of jug bands was serenading steamboat passengers up and down the Ohio River. In the 1920s, Louisville’s proliferating jug bands were entertaining theater and dance crowds in major cities east of the Mississippi. Today, jug band music is popular worldwide. The National Jug Band Jubilee was launched in Louisville in October 2004. The Jubilee is held the third weekend in September at Brown-Forman Amphitheater, located in Waterfront Park at 1301 River Road. Both the Jubilee and Michael Jones’ presentation on May 17 are free and open to the public. Your Works at Work Winter weather has not kept the Construction and Works crews from its many tasks. Recent projects included: - Hycliffe Avenue – completed installment of catch basins. - Williamsburg Court – completed new drainage system. Asphalting will be completed this spring. - McArthur Drive – repaired sink hole. - Planted free trees in right-of-ways all around the city, including city parks. - Repaired water damage at the concession stand in Community Park by hanging drywall and painting. Upcoming projects will include: - Replacing several vehicle pull-off pads with grass. - Addressing small drainage issues throughout the city. - Continuing with sidewalk repair work throughout 2015. - Evaluating requests for new sidewalk construction. Park Place The Weinberg tee ball field at Community Park is getting a much needed face lift. The entire field, fencing, and bleachers have been removed and are being replaced for the 2015 season. Weinberg Field was one of the few Little League baseball fields in the country with a tree in the outfield. Because the tree wasn’t in the best location, it was removed. More trees will be planted outside of the baseball field. The grass field, which was uneven and drained poorly, is being replaced with a synthetic turf surface. Because the field is designed with a drainage system underneath the turf, tee ball teams won’t have to cancel games after a spring rain. The turf field will be level, allowing children and adults with disabilities to play on the new surface. Older girls and boys baseball and softball teams will be able to practice infield drills on the new turf field because the bases are movable. Much larger and wider bleachers have been ordered to replace the two smaller bleachers. The new bleachers should easily accommodate all family and community members who come to cheer on the younger generation. Washburn Avenue quiet zone update To ensure both the safety of residents and a good night’s sleep, Washburn Avenue’s railroad crossing is in the process of being revamped. Currently, a loud horn warns crossing cars of an oncoming train. With the renovation, Washburn Avenue will be widened at the crossing, new barrier medians will be installed, and upgrades will be made to the signal equipment. Project bids for the Washburn Avenue quiet zone opened in April, and a contractor was selected. CSX Transportation has reviewed the contractor’s credentials and is working out a schedule for its crews to perform the work in conjunction with the contractor. Once the project work begins, the Washburn crossing is expected to be closed for five days. Construction costs will be split between former Metro Councilman Ken Fleming’s District 7 Capital Infrastructure Funds and the cities of St. Matthews and Lyndon. Good Neighboring Mattress pickup Rumpke has begun enforcing a formerly overlooked rule: old mattresses and box springs must be wrapped in plastic before being picked up. This also applies to other upholstered furniture. Mowing reminders When mowing your yard, don’t forget to take care of the grass alleyways adjacent to your yard. Aim the mower so that grass clippings do not blow onto the street or sidewalk or onto your neighbor’s driveway. Pet peeves If you have a dog that barks incessantly at night or early in the day, take steps to silence him for the sake of your neighbors. Remember to pick up after your pets and keep them on a leash. St. Matthews Ordinance § 88.03 states that pet owners must keep their cats, dogs, and other animals on a leash when not on the resident’s property. If the animal is in an unfenced area on the owner’s property, it must be under the control of the owner at all times. Paving stones If you put out paving stones, stone pyramids, or other obstructions to keep people from parking on the right-of-way along your property, keep in mind that you could be held liable for any damage or accidents they may cause. Should you elect to place these obstructions, they must be placed a minimum of 18 inches from the edge of the pavement. Hometown History - 2015 Today, the northwest corner of Thierman Lane and Shelbyville Road is the location of Papa John’s Pizza and Chiller’s Micro Creamery. Sitting further back is what long-time St. Matthews residents refer to as “the old Sears building,” housing multiple businesses. Your Elected Officials for the City of St. Matthews: Mayor Richard J. Tonini City Council Bernard Bowling Frank Flynn Tim Holland Stuart Monohan Mary Jo Nay Martha Schade Tony Weiter Patrick Wissing Council meetings begin at 7 p.m. on the second and fourth Tuesday of each month. City Council meeting minutes are online at www.stmatthewsky.gov. E-CONNECTION To submit your email address to receive important St. Matthews updates, visit the city website at www.stmatthewsky.gov or call city offices. Email addresses will not be shared with other parties. Need to know? Call St. Matthews Automated Service 24/7 Information Line 638-4STM (4786) Administration Press 1 Services Press 2 News Press 3 Police Press 4 Government Access City Hall Office: 895-9444 Code Enforcement: 899-2512 Police Department: 893-9000 City Engineer: 899-2518 Property Taxes: 899-2511 Police Records: 899-2537 Anonymous Tip Line: 498-CLUE (2583) Emergency: 911 | <urn:uuid:a1dc8d23-950b-4354-9a09-701aa2846a89> | https://www.stmatthewsky.gov/wp-content/uploads/2015/04/SMCH-May-20151.pdf | HuggingFaceFW/finepdfs-edu | 18 Celebs Who Had Near Death Experiences These celebrities had to experience first hand that their fame doesn’t make them immortal. 1. Burt Reynolds. The star almost lost his battle with pill addiction after slipping into a nine-hour coma. Fortunately, he had very dedicated doctors. 2. Tracy Morgan. What many don’t know about Morgan is that he almost got killed in a collision with a Wal-Mart truck. His friend James McNair died in the accident. 3. Tony Bennett. Due to major debt, Bennett attempted suicide when he was younger. Luckily, he survived and decided to change his life. 4. Joaquin Phoenix. In 2006, Phoenix was involved in a severe crash because his car’s breaks weren’t functioning properly. 5. George Lucas. Shortly before his graduation from high school, Lucas wrecked his car and suffered severe injuries. He spent several weeks in hospital, clinging onto life. 6. Sharon Stone. When an artery popped inside her skull, Sharon Stone almost lost her life to the internal bleeding. 7. Eminem. In 2005, rapper Eminem almost died because of an methadone overdose. 8. Rachel Bilson. When she was 14, Bilson was involved in a violent car crash. The window smashed into Bilson’s head and almost killed her. Even today she still suffers from regular migraines caused by her head injuries. 9. Orlando Bloom. When trying to climb a drain pipe, Bloom fell three stories deep and ended up temporarily paralyzed. Fortunately, he has made a full recovery. 10. Anne Hathaway. In 2014, Hathaway almost died in a forceful riptide on Hawaii. She was rescued by a local surfer who pulled her out of the water. 11. Donald Sutherland. In 1979, Sutherland almost lost his life to meningitis. 12. Drew Barrymore. When living with Tom Green, Barrymore’s house caught fire. If they hadn’t been woken up by their loyal dog, they could have died in their sleep. 13. Ed Begley Jr. In 1972, the actor got beaten up by a teenage gang in Compton. His injuries were so severe that he almost died in hospital. 14. Eric Roberts. Roberts crashed his car when he was distracted by his dog. He spent several days in a coma and almost didn’t make it. 15. Jane Seymour. When the actress was 36-years-old, she had a pretty bad flu and was given a penicillin injection. Only then she found out that she was allergic to penicillin. She almost died due to her body’s intense allergic reaction. 16. Martin Lawrence. In 1999, Lawrence suffered such bad heat stroke that he had to be rushed to hospital. Trying to lose weight for a role, he had been running with several layers of clothes on a particularly hot day. He briefly went into a coma in hospital but then recovered. 17. Owen Wilson. In 2007, Owen Wilson almost took his own life by overdosing on pills and simultaneously slitting his wrists. He was discovered by his brother Luke Wilson, who prevented the worst from happening. 18. 50 Cent. Of course everyone knows the incredible story of 50 Cent’s survival. This man seriously survived being hit by nine bullets fired at close range in 2000. | <urn:uuid:19554b22-a029-47f9-9269-baa87d96547a> | http://emgn.com/entertainment/18-celebs-near-death-experiences/ | mlfoundations/dclm-baseline-1.0-parquet | Social Credit Views Saturday, 12 September 2015 08:56 What is the 'Monopoly of Credit'? Written by M. Oliver Heydorn Rate this item (0 votes) In perusing Social Credit literature, a phrase that one encounters quite frequently is the “Monopoly of Credit”. Indeed, The Monopoly of Credit was the title of C.H. Douglas’ last major technical work dedicated to the exposition of Social Credit economics. Since the phrase is often employed without being precisely defined, and since some Social Crediters use it without being conscious of its exact meaning, it would be a useful exercise to pause and focus our attention on this particular phenomenon, a phenomenon which, more than any other, may be taken as the central characteristic of the standard financial system that presently reigns the whole world over. As many people are now only learning for the first time, money, the life-blood of the economy, exists in one of two forms: currency or credit.[1] Currency refers to the physical tokens of money, i.e., the bills and coins which are typically printed and minted by a government authority. Credit, on the other hand, takes the form of intangible numbers that used to be recorded in bookkeeping documents and are now stored in computer databases. In our contemporary world, the creation and issuance of credit is the prerogative of private banks. Yes, that’s right. Let it be restated for the umpteenth time if need be: banks do not lend their customers’ deposits; they are not intermediaries between savers and borrowers. Instead, they are creators of the deposits which they lend, invest, or otherwise spend into existence. How is this accomplished? Quite simply by an act of the will involving accounting ledgerdemain, the confirmation afforded by legal sanctions, and the regulations demanded by good business practice.[2] In accordance with the principles of double-entry bookkeeping, the creation of credit generates both assets and liabilities on a bank’s books. Credit that is held on deposit in a bank, regardless of its origin via a loan, investment, or bank operating expense, is accounted as a liability, while the loan, securities, or bank property, etc., are regarded as assets. The “Monopoly of Credit” is therefore the monopoly which private banks, or the private banking system considered as a whole, exercises over the creation and issuance of credit. And, since the vast majority of the money supply at any given point in time exists in the form of bank credit (that figure tallies at over 95% in developed nations), the banks’ ‘credit-monopoly’, is a near total ‘money-monopoly’. See also: Yes, Virginia, the Banks Really Do Create Money Out of Nothing [1] The accepted Social Credit definition of money originated in the writings of a certain Professor Walker who, in his book Money, Trade and Industry, had said that money is ‘any medium no matter of what it is made or why people want it, no one will refuse in exchange for his goods.’ [2] Only banks can legally create credit. Anyone else who attempted to do so would be charged with counterfeiting. Leave a comment • Comment Link JB Sunday, 11 February 2018 08:01 posted by JB Just a couple of questions for Dr Heydorn or Mr Klinck, if I may: 1. There has long been a centralised policy of free trade, including the import of labour. (Importing and exporting equals economic growth which equals higher incomes etc. etc.) What is the social credit position on 'free trade'? Or is there a social credit counter-argument to the 'free trade' philosophy? It would seem Douglas was less than impressed with what he described as the mercantile theory of trade? 2. C H Douglas once wrote: "...that the primary characteristic of the that he is without say in his own policy". To make things clear, exactly what did Douglas mean in the quotation above? In other words the economic system gives a person little if any real choice? Does it dovetail in to another saying of Douglas? "If he has to work hard and long hours...then for him civilisation fails". Thank you. • Comment Link Wallace Klinck Sunday, 11 February 2018 08:01 posted by Wallace Klinck Yes, our money originates for all practical purposes in the form of credit entries made in bank customers' account through the process by which banks advance loans--for both production and consumption. This means that all citizens, both producers and consumers, must obtain their money from the banking system in the form of repayable debt. Loans are extended on conditions set by the lenders and the latter have, therefore, a monopoly of policy conferred by their essentially exclusive power, granted by Government approved Charter to create the nation's money supply for all purposes. Social Credit holds that the policy of production should be determined by consumers in a consumer-motivated economy wherein the consumer "vote" or exercise of choice motivates production by expressed demand. If consumers do not have sufficient earned income to purchase the entire current outflow of consumer goods at any given time then they must seek additional income. If they are forced to take out consumer loans issued by banks on bank conditions they cannot exercise free choice and they are penalized by loan charges. If they are forced to engage in some other production activity in order to obtain their otherwise insufficient purchasing-power they will be compelled to engage in activities which may--or may not--be something of which they approve, i.e., wasteful activities or even armaments for use in war. Social Credit advocates the breaking of the monopoly of credit creation held by the banking system. It would issue the money required to balance consumer buying power with the price of goods flowing from the production line by an issue of money without debt from outside the banking and production price-system--not by bank debt or by money distributed by unnecessary wasteful activities as is the current practice. Latest Articles • ‘In Service to Mammon’ and the Due Christian Response Written on Wednesday, 23 October 2019 22:22 • A Favourable Balance of Trade? - New Animated Video Written on Friday, 27 September 2019 00:04 • Problems with Taxes Written on Tuesday, 16 July 2019 10:59 | <urn:uuid:84b9c2b8-540d-4a4a-8213-02de11b22d08> | https://www.socred.org/s-c-action/social-credit-views/what-is-the-monopoly-of-credit | mlfoundations/dclm-baseline-1.0-parquet | generate HTML output from SMARTFORM and send it as email body There was a standard process in our system which sends a text as the body of a mail, after a certain operation is completed. For this program a change had been done so that the program could send a custom SMARTFORM as a PDF attachment beside to the text body. This change had been done as a repair in a program. So far so good, everything was working fine. ADBC usage with HANA as a secondary database “ADBC is an API for the Native SQL interface of the AS ABAP that is based on ABAP Objects. The ADBC methods can be used to pass Native SQL statements to the database interface”. It was a definition from SAP Help. It is obvious that ADBC can be used ABAP on HANA systems. I think there are very few advantages of ADBC method but on the other hand many disadvantages that demotivates to use. test your SQL statement before using it in your ABAP program For a long time i thought that there is a missing SQL console feature integrated in SAP functionality. With ABAP 7.4 and usage of Eclipse as IDE, SAP succeded to fulfill this gap with new Eclipse SQL Console. Actually before this feature, there was a similar feature that we could use for the same aim. Therefore i wanted to write down both options so that you can pick one of the suitable one for you. | <urn:uuid:5642feae-61bc-4cf3-a839-7aa9d99050b2> | https://www.sapalles.com/ | mlfoundations/dclm-baseline-1.0-parquet | Students at Mt. Healthy High School were able to put their learning to the test during their Forensics classes. On March 4th, Ms. Rowe's 4th and 5th bell students (11th and 12th grade) were given a crime to solve. The students were given three blood samples from the crime scene in order to find the guilty suspect. Students had to conduct forensics tests to determine the blood type for all three samples (A, B, AB, or O) and determine if the samples were positive or negative using the Rh factor. Students had to test the blood of the victim, blood found on the weapon, and blood found at the crime scene. Using what they learned in their Forensics classes, the students were able to narrow down a guilty suspect! Ms. Rowe, the teacher of the newly added course, shared that students really enjoy the Forensics course and she loves teaching the class. Young forensics experts at work | <urn:uuid:457f24ea-89ac-45ca-a816-390b7bcd227b> | https://www.mthcs.org/article/678564 | HuggingFaceFW/fineweb-edu | Life cycle assessment (or LCA) is an essential part of green building because it offers an objective and consistent way to measure the environmental impacts of building materials and assemblies. Every part of a structure—from the foundation and framing materials to windows and cladding—has a unique environmental footprint, which affects the whole. The objective of LCA is to evaluate the various parts in order to minimize the overall environmental impact. LCA considers materials over the course of their entire lives, from extraction through manufacturing, transportation, installation, use, maintenance and disposal or recycling. The evaluation takes into account the full range of impacts—such as energy use, global warming potential, air pollution, water pollution and solid waste—and provides a common basis for comparing designs. Without the kind of quantifiable data generated through LCA, choices are often subjective. For example, many people believe that it’s better for the environment to use materials produced within 500 miles of the structure being built. On the surface this makes sense—since less energy will be required to transport the materials. But consideration must also be given to factors such as weight, the type of manufacturing process and the mode of transportation, which could easily make a product sourced farther away the smarter choice. **How Does Wood Compare?** Study after study in Europe, North America and elsewhere has shown that wood outperforms other products when considered over its complete life cycle. One study, conducted by the Consortium for Research on Renewable Industrial Materials (CORRIM), compared the environmental impacts of homes framed with wood and steel in Minneapolis and with wood and concrete in Atlanta—the framing types most common to each city. According to the report, the homes framed in steel and concrete would require 17 and 16 percent more energy respectively (from extraction through maintenance) than their wood framed counterparts. A study by the Canadian Wood Council compares the life cycle impacts of three 2,400 square foot homes designed primarily in wood, steel and concrete, over the first 20 years of their lifespans. Relative to the wood design, the steel and concrete designs: - Release 24% and 47% more air pollution - Produce 8% and 23% more solid wastes - Use 11% and 81% more resources - Require 26% and 57% more energy - Emit 34% and 81% more greenhouse gases - Discharge 4 and 3.5 times more water pollution These differences may seem small until one realizes that only a small portion of the materials in the house (by weight) are involved in framing. The impact can be expected to be many times larger when components made from different materials are compared directly. Researchers also considered emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and nitrous oxide, and the length of time these substances linger in the environment. They concluded that the global warming potential of the hypothetical steel framed home is 26 percent higher and the concrete framed home 31 percent higher than the matching homes framed with wood. **Tools for Assessing Life Cycle Impacts** In North America, the two most common tools for assessing life cycle impacts are the Athena™ Environmental Impact Estimator and the BEES® (Building for Environmental and Economic Sustainability) software. The Athena software is used to evaluate the environmental footprint of assemblies or complete structures. It is especially useful early in the design process, when material choices have far-reaching implications for the overall environmental impact, and allows designers to experiment with different material mixes to achieve the most effective combination. The BEES® software is more product-oriented, and combines environmental measures with economic indicators to provide a final rating. Particularly useful at the specification and procurement stage of a project, the software includes data for nearly 200 products (generic and manufacturer brands) such as wall insulation, siding and sheathing. **LCA and Green Building Standards** Although it has existed in various forms since the 1960s, life cycle assessment has only recently been considered in the context of green building standards. Until now, standards have tended to prescribe specific “green” features as the only way to achieve objectives. (They may reward solar energy, for example, or encourage wind energy by rewarding the purchase of "green power", instead of giving credit for any practice that minimizes the use of non-renewable fossil fuels.) But there is growing support for the idea that rating systems should focus on true environmental performance measures, such as global warming potential or ozone depleting effects, giving designers and builders the flexibility to choose how best to achieve them. LCA is the means to this end. In North America, the Green Globes™ standard for commercial structures already includes LCA to some degree, awarding up to 40 points for using LCA tools to choose assemblies such as foundation/floors, structural/walls, roofs and other (i.e. cladding and windows). The Green Building Initiative, which oversees Green Globes in the United States, has also begun a project to incorporate LCA data more fully into the system itself—making it easy for users to compare alternate design options in LCA terms. The US Green Building Council, which oversees the LEED® standard, is also in the process of determining how to incorporate LCA into future LEED products. *Additional information on life cycle assessment and the environmental benefits of wood is available from the Athena Sustainable Materials Institute ([www.athenasmi.ca](http://www.athenasmi.ca)), BEES® – Building for Environmental and Economic Sustainability ([http://www.bfrl.nist.gov/oaе/software/bees.html](http://www.bfrl.nist.gov/oaе/software/bees.html)), the Consortium for Research on Renewable Industrial Materials ([www.corrim.org/reports/](http://www.corrim.org/reports/)) and the Canadian Wood Council ([www.cwc.ca](http://www.cwc.ca)).* | <urn:uuid:9519c2cd-0af9-4f81-a301-4e46e9d1e931> | http://softwoodlumber.org/pdfs/Wood_and_Green_Building.pdf | HuggingFaceFW/finepdfs-edu | Enterprise OTT Communications For Anytime, Anywhere, Any Network Workers How Bria Saves Enterprises Money and Puts Unified Communications on Any Device Explore recent trends in the mobility of workers and their usage of laptops, smartphones, and tablets in different locations and use cases. CIOs and IT Managers must change their Unified Communications (UC) strategy as their workforce evolves to an Anytime, Anywhere, Any Network workforce that brings their own device (BYOD). Enterprises have an opportunity to save money and increase their workers’ productivity by using Enterprise OTT communications. Using CounterPath’s Bria UC client, enterprises can extend the reach of their existing communications infrastructure to workers’ mobile laptops, smartphones, and tablets. After reading this whitepaper you'll be able to answer the following frequently asked questions: • Why should I use softphones or Unified Communications clients on mobile devices? • Why would an enterprise use CounterPath Bria instead of softphones supplied by their PBX vendor? • Will Bria work with my existing system? • How difficult is it to deploy UC clients? | <urn:uuid:f17810d5-8fa1-43bf-a169-eb51926c922a> | https://go.counterpath.com/enterprise-ott-whitepaper | mlfoundations/dclm-baseline-1.0-parquet | VoteTopic KS2: Do anonymous apps make bullying worse? KS1: Can you spot online bullying? The following criteria are supported by this topic: ©VotesForSchools2018 | <urn:uuid:09410185-2354-4bf7-aac6-07b21c2383d8> | https://iaps.uk/assets/downloads/Classroom%20resources/KS1_2%20Cyberbullying_SMSC%20British%20values%20and%20Prevent%20evidence.pdf | HuggingFaceFW/finepdfs-edu | Long Point Region Conservation Authority LPRCA Media Release November 5, 2015 Release upon Receipt Long Point Region Source Protection Plan approved A plan to protect the sources of municipal drinking water in the Long Point Region watershed has been approved by the Ontario Ministry of Environment and Climate Change, the Long Point Region Conservation Authority (LPRCA) announced today. The Long Point Region Source Protection Plan was approved by Minister Glen Murray on November 4, 2015 and will take effect July 1, 2016. The Source Protection Plan was developed over several years and is based on technical studies, collaborative policy development, and extensive public consultation. The process was guided by the Lake Erie Region Source Protection Committee made up of representatives from municipalities, business, industry, farmers, landowners, and other stakeholders. "Formal approval of the Long Point Region Plan to protect and enhance sources of drinking water is a milestone achieved through the Committee's collaborative work with its community, conservation authority, municipal and provincial partners," says Wendy Wright Cascaden, Acting Chair, Lake Erie Region Source Protection Committee. "We look forward to monitoring and measuring the Plan's success." She also commended Craig Ashbaugh, former chair of the Lake Erie Region Source Protection Committee, who helped to shape decision-making and guide the planning process over the last eight years. "We would like to recognize Craig for the Source Protection Committee's success in bringing together municipalities, businesses, farmers and others to define a plan that protects local water supplies," said Ms. Wright Cascaden. "The approved Long Point Region Source Protection Plan is an achievement that will extend far into our future." The source protection planning process began in 2006 when the Ontario government passed the Clean Water Act to protect the sources of municipal drinking water supplies throughout Ontario. The Act established 19 local committees across Ontario. Each committee developed science-based plans that address contamination risks to municipal drinking water sources. The Long Point Region Source Protection Plan was developed by the Lake Erie Region Source Protection Committee and its municipal and community partners. The committee also developed plans for the Catfish Creek, Grand River and Kettle Creek watersheds. Source protection plans are local science-based plans designed to protect the water quality of the lakes, rivers and sources of underground water that supply municipal drinking water systems. The plans set out actions to eliminate, manage or reduce potential risks to drinking water sources. Policies in the Source Protection Plans include a variety of approaches to manage and prevent risks to municipal drinking water. These approaches include education and outreach, the development of risk management plans, land use planning, and monitoring. The policies are designed to keep contaminants out of rivers, lakes and groundwater aquifers that are sources of municipal drinking water. LPRCA is pleased that the Long Point Region Source Protection Plan has been approved. "This is good news for the future of the 13 municipal drinking water sources in the Long Point Region. Implementation of the source protection plan will help to safeguard our sources of municipal drinking water," says LPRCA Chair Mike Columbus. The source protection planning process is directed and funded by the Ontario Ministry of the Environment and Climate Change in conjunction with municipalities. Local conservation authorities provide additional technical, communications and administrative support for the source protection planning process. The Long Point Region Source Protection Plan outlines the policies and programs that will protect municipal drinking water systems. The plan and its associated documents are available at www.sourcewater.ca For further information contact LPRCA General Manager Cliff Evanitski at 519-842-4242 ext 225. | <urn:uuid:4101b844-64d5-48ba-a606-0019c6d58d6b> | https://www.sourcewater.ca/en/source-protection-areas/resources/Documents/Long_Point/LongPoint_Approval_LRPCArelease.pdf | HuggingFaceFW/finepdfs-edu | A karyotype is the complete set of all chromosomes of a cell of any living organism. The chromosomes are arranged and displayed (often on a photo) in a standard format: in pairs, ordered by size. Karyotypes are examined in searches for chromosomal aberrations, and may be used to determine other macroscopically visible aspects of an individual’s genotype, such as sex (XX vs. XY pair). The study of karyotypes is known as karyology. Most human karyotypes are denoted 46,XX (for most women) and 46,XY (for most men). However, some individuals have other karyotypes with added or missing sex chromosomes, including 47,XYY, 47,XXY, 47,XXX and 45,X. The other possibility, 45,Y, does not occur, as an embryo without an X chromosome is incapable of survival. In the “classic” (depicted) karyotype, a dye, often Giemsa, is used to make bands on the chromosomes visible. This is also referred to as G-banding. Each chromosome has a characteristic banding patern which helps to identify them (notice that the two chromosomes of one pair have the same banding pattern). Spectral karyotype (SKY technique) In this newer technique, several different probes specific of one chromosome pair, carrying different amounts of a set of fluorescent dyes, are hybridized to the chromosomes in a technique known as fluorescent in situ hybridization (FISH). This gives each chromosome pair unique spectral characteristics due to the relative amount of each of the fluorochromes. Chromosomes can be automatically identified in fluorescence microscopy through an interferometer and a computer analysis (spectral imaging). | <urn:uuid:bf715a31-5bbe-471c-b588-f1dccd4743d9> | http://t-vox.org/information/definitions/karyotype | HuggingFaceFW/fineweb-edu | Why Unplug Unused Appliances? Rachel McAdams, the Hollywood starlet best know for her role in the movie The Notebook, is also known for being OCD when it comes to unplugging unused appliances at home when she travels. Why? Because even when your plugged in appliances are sitting unused on your counter top, they are still sucking energy and costing you money! Let’s take a look at how much this is costing you per year on average, based on the following formula. If you want a general estimate of how much electricity your home appliances consume, use the following formula to estimate the amount of energy a specific appliance consumes: Wattage ´ Hours Used Per Day 1000 = Daily Kilowatt-hour (kWh) consumption (1 kilowatt (kW) = 1,000 Watts) Personal Computer and Monitor: (120+150) Watts ´ 4 hours/day ´ 365 days/year = 394 kWh ´ 8.5 Cents/kWh = $33.51/year You can usually find the wattage of most appliances stamped on the bottom or back of the appliance, or on its “nameplate.” The wattage listed is the maximum power drawn by the appliance. Since many appliances have a range of settings (for example, the volume on a radio), the actual amount of power consumed depends on the setting used at any one time. Below are some examples of the range of nameplate wattages for various household appliances: Aquarium = 50-1210 Watts Clock radio = 10 Coffee maker = 900-1200 Clothes washer = 350-500 Clothes dryer = 1800-5000 Dishwasher = 1200-2400 (using the drying feature greatly increases energy consumption) Dehumidifier = 785 Electric blanket- Single/Double = 60 / 100 Ceiling = 65-175 Window = 55-250 Furnace = 750 Whole house = 240-750 Hair dryer = 1200-1875 Heater (portable) = 750-1500 Clothes Iron = 1000-1800 Microwave oven = 750-1100 Personal Computer CPU – awake / asleep = 120 / 30 or less Monitor – awake / asleep = 150 / 30 or less Laptop = 50 Radio (stereo) = 400 Refrigerator (frostfree, 16 cubic feet) #9; = 725 Televisions (color) 19″ = 110 27″ = 113 36″ = 133 53″-61″ Projection = 170 Flat Screen = 120 Toaster = 800-1400 Toaster Oven = 1225 VCR/DVD = 17-21 /20-25 Vacuum cleaner = 1000-1440 Water heater (40 gallon) = 4500-5500 If you travel this holiday season, why not unplug those appliances before you leave? It will end up saving you money. Formula and wattage references from www.naturalhandyman.com About these ads 5 Responses to Why Unplug Unused Appliances? 2. [...] unplug your appliances when you’re not using them, like the toaster, blender and television (saving 100kw a day can save about 34 bucks a year-click the link to see how much ‘stand-by’ electricity you are using and how much you can save by unplugging) [...] 3. Dehumidifiers online Sale… [...]Why Unplug Unused Appliances? « Handymanconnect’s Blog[...]… I am trying to find things to enhance my website! I suppose its ok to use some of your ideas! Leave a Reply WordPress.com Logo Twitter picture Facebook photo Google+ photo Connecting to %s Get every new post delivered to your Inbox. %d bloggers like this: | <urn:uuid:4d3f2a98-169a-4e00-9d3f-6772b487c84a> | http://handymanconnect.wordpress.com/2010/11/17/why-unplug-unused-appliances/ | mlfoundations/dclm-baseline-1.0-parquet | An important tool for divination is the 3x3 magic square and the Eight Houses that are derived from it: Out of this diagram we can easily construct a compass board with 24 directions: This board can be used to make several different "hexagram compasses". Here are some of them (numbers from King Wen's hexagram order) (South is always up): Hexagram compass Later Heaven (Lower trigram fixed) Hexagram compass Later Heaven (Upper trigram fixed) Hexagram compass Earlier Heaven (Upper trigram fixed) Hexagram compass Earlier Heaven (Lower trigram fixed) Hexagram compass with Earlier Heaven above Later Heaven Copyright 1998 D.H.Van den Berghe All these compasses contain the 64 hexagrams (constructed from the two trigrams attributed to the numbers in the inner and outer squares) and the eight trigrams (where there is a 5 which has no trigram attributed to it). The last example is based on the "Eight Houses" arrangement that can be found at the end of the R.Wilhelm translation of the I Ching. © 1998 D.H.Van den Berghe firstname.lastname@example.org www.fourpillars.net | <urn:uuid:98471024-8a83-4fbc-a217-a913bf614879> | https://fourpillars.net/pdf/hexcomp.pdf | HuggingFaceFW/finepdfs-edu | Pin Me Teaching Leadership Skills in Special Ed written by: Meetu • edited by: Linda M. Rhinehart Neas • updated: 1/5/2012 Leadership skills are essential for children in today's society. It is not only about leadership, but about teaching students discretion in deciding whether to engage in specific activities. Student with disabilities need to learn decision-making skills so they can make the right choices. • slide 1 of 2 As a teacher you'll often come across parents who complain that their children are herd followers (i.e. the children want to do a thing because their friends are doing it and that the children are poor decision makers). Every parent wants his child to be the leader of the pack. Every parent feels uncomfortable when the child says that he is doing a particular thing because his friends are doing it (peer pressure). In the classroom, students with disabilities encounter lots of decision-making situations and they have to decide whether to follow the group or become the leader of the group. Leadership skills have to be developed in children at a very young age. For a child to learn leadership skills it is necessary that they get the right kind of atmosphere both at school as well as at home. Let us call this Leadership Training. The following tips should help teachers to instill leadership qualities in young children. • slide 2 of 2 Tips for Teaching Leadership Parent-child, teacher-child and teacher-parent communication is very important. The child should feel confident enough to communicate and voice their thoughts both at home and at school. This voicing of thoughts cannot be mindless. Teachers and parents can help students think cognitively and analyze what they want to say and how it should be said. Oftentimes, parents and teachers listen to a child, but may dismiss their thoughts, considering them childish. Learning to disagree is an art that more often than not parents need to learn in teaching effective leadership skills. Listening is not all that a parent or teacher needs to do with the child. They can share with them their experiences, how and what they did in a particular situation, how they chose to react, where they went wrong, how something was rectified, and why it was wrong. It is like putting the child in simulated situations that can happen in all homes and classrooms. When communication takes place, teachers are able to see and understand the vision of the child. In case a vision for the future is missing in a child, it needs to be given to them. Sharing experiences of life, reading the success stories of others, asking for the child’s interpretation of the story, and sharing your own interpretation can help to build up a vision for a special needs students. Team Work Teaching leadership skills to a child does not mean that they underestimate the importance of their teammates, teamwork, group assimilation and compromise. Talking to the child of the larger, the bigger outcome is important. It helps the child concentrate and channel their energy. If students with disabilities try to do everything in the classroom, no work will be finished by the end of the day, so proper team collaboration is important for effective learning outcomes to result. School and home are the first two places where a child learns leadership skills and time management. A child needs to be taught how to break a larger job into smaller achievable targets. Small targets help to raise their self esteem and confidence. Planning at this level is the introduction of the child to time management, resource management and continuous upgrading of already existing skills. Persistence and Determination Children need to be taught how to take failure in stride and how failures can be made into stepping stones towards success. They are young people, who can get bogged down by the obstacles in their way. They need continuous supervision, motivation and encouragement. They need to be taught that success is not everything in life, but effort towards the goal is success. To summarize: • Leadership Skills are essential. • Leaders are not born but can evolve with thorough training. Teachers and parents can start early with young students to help them evolve as leaders. • No kind of disability or challenge can stop you from being a leader. Names of several famous personalities are mentioned at, who fought one or other form of disability to be successful. privacy policy | <urn:uuid:d65b99db-2314-4251-b89b-89af3632c0da> | http://www.brighthubeducation.com/special-ed-inclusion-strategies/17260-teaching-leadership-skills-to-children-with-disabilities/ | mlfoundations/dclm-baseline-1.0-parquet | Honeymoon Sydney Venues Photography Celebrants Cars All Categories Honeymoon Insights There are 10 Sydney Honeymoon suppliers from which to choose. Overall, they have an average rating of 4.8 out of 5. Couples usually enquire with 8 vendors in this category and books 8 months out from their wedding date, typically after Wedding Hire and before Wedding Music. Honeymoon suppliers charge between $7,930 and $10,000, averaging at $8,640. Across Australia, the average cost is $5,510. Given Australian weddings typically cost $33,785, this means Australian couples spend 17% of their wedding budget on Honeymoon. 0 suppliers match your filters. | <urn:uuid:74f5f837-6016-48cd-983d-112d206d210a> | https://www.easyweddings.com.au/Honeymoon/Ultimo/ | mlfoundations/dclm-baseline-1.0-parquet | Metro woman warns don’t park on grass OKLAHOMA CITY – A metro woman and two others said they were ticketed while moving holiday decorations into a house earlier this week. They were parked in the grass outside a home in southwest Oklahoma City. Wanda Cox said, “We were here, why didn’t they knock on the door?” Cox is upset. Monday she was visiting a friend, helping move a few things in to the house. She parked her SUV just off the driveway. Another truck was in the yard for unloading and the homeowners truck sat in the same spot where he’s parked for eight years. So, when they came out and each found a $100 ticket on their vehicles, they were mad. Cox said, “Just my tires were off the driveway.” City officials said it doesn’t matter how far into the yard a car is parked, it’s illegal. Charles Locke, with the City of Oklahoma City, said, “When you drive on the grass, on a soft surface you have the potential to damage our utility lines.” In fact, Wanda’s SUV was in the worst place, near the curb where city water lines run. City officials said the code inspector was there long enough to write three tickets and take several pictures. Had they actually seen activity there’s a chance they would have asked that the cars be moved, instead of handing out tickets. Locke said, “Usually the only way they’ll give a warning is if it’s an attended vehicle where they are loading or unloading.” Finding a car parked off the driveway is pretty common in this particular neighborhood. Cox said, “They weren’t made for three and four family cars.” Cox said the driveways in the area are a big part of the problem. Very few are wide enough for more than one car. City officials said if you cannot afford to expand your driveway with concrete but need it to be wider, you can expand with gravel as long as it meets city code. They also say there were numerous tickets issued in that same neighborhood Monday afternoon for the same violation. | <urn:uuid:cfdd69cb-7184-4092-a797-b81aad495ee3> | http://kfor.com/2012/12/11/metro-woman-warns-dont-park-on-grass/ | mlfoundations/dclm-baseline-1.0-parquet | ESR Blood Test: Normal Erythrocyte Sedimentation Rate Result Erythrocyte Sedimentation Rate (ESR, Sed Rate, Sedimentation Rate) is a laboratory blood test that indirectly measures the degree of inflammation in the body. It measures the rate of settling or sedimentation of red blood cells (erythrocytes) in a tall, thin tube of blood collected from a patient. Proteins produced during inflammation cause erythrocytes to move close together and stack up in a group. When red blood cells are in group, they become heavier (denser) so they settle faster. The further erythrocytes settle and the faster they fall, the higher is the value of ESR. ESR blood test result is reported as how many millimeters of plasma (clear, yellowish fluid component of the blood) are present at the top of the thin tube in one hour. Uses of Erythrocyte Sedimentation Rate (ESR) ESR blood test helps in the diagnosis of conditions associated with acute and chronic inflammation such as infections, cancers, and autoimmune diseases. Although ESR blood test can tell that there is inflammation in the body, it cannot tell what condition or disease is causing the inflammation. Doctors use ESR blood test result in conjunction with other clinical findings, laboratory test results, and the patient’s health history in diagnosing the disease of a patient. There are many conditions that may cause inflammation and increase ESR: rheumatoid arthritis, lupus, anemia, endocarditis, kidney diseases, osteomyelitis, tuberculosis, syphilis, thyroid disease, rheumatic fever, systemic body infection, giant cell arteritis, pregnancy, multiple myeloma, polymyalgia, vasculitis, and other inflammatory diseases. There are also conditions that result in lower-than-normal ESR: sickle cell anemia, polycythemia, blood hyperviscosity, low plasma protein due to certain diseases, decreased blood fibrinogen levels (hypofibrinogenemia), and congestive health failure. Normal Erythrocyte Sedimentation Rate (ESR) There are two laboratory methods in measuring erythrocyte sedimentation rate: the Westergren and Wintrobe method. The Westergren method is used in most laboratories worldwide. Below are the normal ESR results using Westergren method (in millimeters per hour (mm/hr) : -Less than 15 mm/hr for men under 50 yrs old -Less than 20 mm/hr for women under 50 years old -Less than 20 mm/hr for men over 50 yrs old -Less than 30 mm/hr for women over 50 years old • 0-2 mm/hr for newborns • 3-12 mm/hr for children in neonatal and puberty stage | <urn:uuid:652dc1a7-51ba-4150-8171-9e4e3907f4e4> | http://www.thebrightesthub.com/esr-blood-test-normal-erythrocyte-sedimentation-rate-result/ | mlfoundations/dclm-baseline-1.0-parquet | The will of government is key to energy access... In what must surely be a first for the Conversation, I am writing this post from the village of Sakteng in remote eastern Bhutan. The Bropkas meet the grid In what must surely be a first for the Conversation, I am writing this post from the village of Sakteng in remote eastern Bhutan. That I can do so is a remarkable testimony to the will of the Bhutanese government in the electrification of what has to be one of the most difficult countries in the World to electrify. Sakteng is one of Bhutan’s two main Bropka settlements, with a population of several thousand. To get to Sakteng we walked from the neighbouring Merak, the other main Bropka settlement. It took us 8-hours trekking over the Nakchung pass at 4,100 m, though the locals take only half that time. From Sakteng to the road head is another 2 hours walk. The Bropkas are yak herders that originate from Tibet, and inhabit the high mountains along the north eastern border of Bhutan and Arunachal Pradesh in neighbouring India. In most ways Bropka life still seems very traditional, governed by the seasonal movement of their yak herds up and down the precipitous Himalayan mountains slopes. Traditional dress is the order of the day with men in their dear skin jackets and woman adorned by their astonishing yak fur hats. But lives in these remote villages have changed in very real and tangible ways. Bropka women from the village of Merak in eastern Bhutan, with their distinctive yak-fur hats. Despite the road only just now reaching Merak, and not planned to get to Sakteng for a few years yet, both villages are on the grid, and have been for almost 10 years. Mobile telephony arrived soon after electricity. And this has been the order for much of Bhutan’s remote rural communities, with some 95% of the population now connected to the grid. A nation defined by steepness Like few other countries, Bhutan is defined by steepness. As anyone who has flown into the only international airport at Paro understands, precipitous slopes rise alarmingly even in the flattest parts of the country. Everywhere, the densely forested slopes are covered with landslide debris - primed for further collapse given the slightest nudge. I doubt that there is any country with a greater steepness index. One of the Himalaya’s most iconic images, the Taktshang monastery, testifies to the way the Bhutanese so readily accommodate this steepness in their daily life. The Taktshang (Tiger’s Nest) Monastry, Bhutan. By comparison with other segments of the Himalaya, the Bhutanese frontal ranges bordering the Indian plains of Assam and West Bengal are unusually steep. The steepness has afforded a natural defence that has helped isolate this remote kingdom for generations. The traditional Bhutanese strongholds lie in regions of comparatively low relief at 1500-3000 metres elevation, between the steep frontal ranges and the towering peaks of the high Himalayan along its northern border with Tibet. In more recent times this very steepness has created political distress of its own kind, as once welcome Nepali settlers of the southern borderlands were evicted resulting in some 200,000 refugees. But its topographic steepness comes with another penalty - the steep cost of moving things around. On this trip we started our geological work in the south east corner of the country near the outpost of Daifam. By the way the crow flies it is just 250 kms from the nation’s capital Thimphu. You can’t get to Daifam from Thimphu without leaving Bhutan and traversing through Assam. The quickest route is via the border town of Phuntsholing, 5 hours from Thimphu, and then another 9 hours via Assam. Alternatively you can take Bhutan’s main “highway” east from Thimphu to Trashigang (20 hours), down to Samdrup Jongkhar (5 hours) and across Assam (5 hours). Crows would appear to have it easy in Bhutan. Some of the most isolated villages in Bhutan occur in the mountains to the north of Daifam. They are also mostly connected to the grid. To connect these villages required carrying in all the poles and wires, often up to a day’s walk up steep slopes through thick forest. Remote rural houses are provided with 100 units of electricity free, but do not go close to consuming that. In the Bangtar district, on the southern border between Daifam and Samdrup Jongkhar, we met the electrical engineer helping build the transmission line that will send power from a hydro plant near Mongar in the north down to Assam in India. He explained it in some places it will take 2-days by foot to carry the material for the poles and wires from the road head to the proposed transmission route. All of Bhutan’s grid supplied electricity is sourced from hydro, and exports already greatly exceed domestic consumption. The question of coal Back in Australia, our coal lobby is fond of quotes of the ilk … “_Only when Third World children can do homework at night using cheap coal-fired electricity can they escape from poverty” . And at least some in our government seem of a like mind. Why, might we ask, does it matter that it is just “cheap coal-fired” electricity that alone will alleviate poverty? Why does not cheap hydro, geothermal, nuclear or whatever else, also do the trick? No doubt coal has been a useful source of electricity in the third world, and will likely remain so for some time given that not all countries are endowed with the hydro resources of the Bhutanese. But is clear that Bhutan puts paid to the idea that coal alone can alleviate poverty. But Bhutan also shows that there is something more fundamental that our coal lobby is loathe to acknowledge, and it speaks to the very paradox that lies at the heart of their claim - given that cheap coal has been around powering electricity systems for over 150 years, why are any children still living in poverty? Could it be that the purported saviour of the world’s poor - the coal industry - doesn’t really have such a flash track record in the altruism stakes after all? Bhutan shows that it is not really coal or any other source of energy that is the missing ingredient in providing electricity to children of the Third World. Despite the immense impediment to transporting anything in such incredibly steep and forested terrain, Bhutan’s remarkable program of electrification suggests the real missing ingredient in providing access to energy is the will of government.The Conversation Mike Sandiford, Director, Melbourne Energy Institute. More Information Mike Sandiford Receive the latest in energy news from across the University Subscribe here | <urn:uuid:afa0425c-ed46-4c9e-b5cc-dc426d037255> | http://energy.unimelb.edu.au/news-and-events/news/the-will-of-government-is-key-to-energy-access | mlfoundations/dclm-baseline-1.0-parquet | A recent 60 Minutes episode profiled people who have extraordinary memories. The individuals memory was so detailed that they were able to recall exactly where they were and the details of what they did on any given day, even decades earlier. In the episode, the anchor, Leslie Stahl, interviewed a group of several people with extraordinary memories. Below is an excerpt of some of the dialogue: Leslie Stahl: Is it as if you are living it [the memory] again as opposed to for me kind of a two dimensional memory? Extraordinary Memory 1: For me it is, you say the date and I am there, as though it happened moments ago rather than 28 years ago. Leslie Stahl: And that is both emotionally, and smelling and touching…? Extraordinary Memory 2: It’s like time travel. Extraordinary Memory 3: You can almost feel the clothes you were wearing Leslie Stahl: Do you think it’s sad that the rest of us lose the memory of our own lives? Do you feel sorry for us? Extraordinary Memory 1: I do. I really do. Leslie Stahl: What would you say if I told you that I experience memory in two dimensions and do not relive the experience in the same way you do? Extraordinary Memory 1: I would say I totally and completely do not relate to that. The responses of the Extraordinary Memory group are instructive in telling us how they are able to do what they do. Their memory recall process is not cognitive like it is for you and I, it is experiential—they experience the memory as though they are there in the moment, reliving it: You can almost feel the clothes you were wearing. Later in the program, several neurology experts theorized about how extraordinary memory-ers were able to do what they do. The question of how they do what they do could be a series of blog posts unto itself, but it’s not what I want to focus on here. An Extreme Example of Not Relating Instead, I want to focus on the ‘not relating’ part. When Leslie asked the extraordinary memory-er what she would say if she told her she experiences memory in two dimensions–that her memory experience is cognitive and not experiential–the extraordinary memory-ers response was absolute and ironclad: If the language the answerer used is not strong enough to grok the degree to which the EM does not relate to Leslies experience of memory, watch the video and see the way she shakes her head, the certainty in the way she explains to you that you might as well be telling her that you’ve just landed from Mars and have a tree growing from the center of your forehead because she just doesn’t get your experience. This example suits the point I want to make because it’s an extreme example of one individual not relating to another. It is immediately understandable that an individual who experiences memory as though they are re-experiencing the event to such a degree that they “feel the clothes you were wearing” does not relate to an individual for whom memory is a static, emotionless, cognitive experience. More on this in a bit. Einstein’s Physics Explains Human Relations In our search for understanding of how humans relate to each other, there are many disciplines, from biology, chemistry and psychology we could examine. Physics might not be the first thing we would think of, but as it turns out it has a lot to teach us. I don’t profess to understand the math or physics nuances of Einstein’s theory of relativity. But the bit that I do understand states that people see light waves (in other words, experience the universe) differently based on their point of view. That is to say that the position you are in, the angle that you are facing the waves of light determine how you experience that light, not the properties of the light itself. From the world of biology we know that as light enters the eye, it bends based on the unique curvature of the individual’s eye lens so that each individual really does ‘see’ in a slightly (sometimes not so slightly) different way. Intentional or not, Einstein’s theory of relativity that proved that human perception differs based on the perspective of the individual explained human relations via a blackboard of math calculations. Why It Matters When we come to the realization that we really do experience the world in a very different way from one another—that it is imminently provable from physics and biology that we’re neither right nor wrong, we are different–it raises a series of questions about what to do with that information. One direction we could take, is that there is an argument to be made, for many varied reasons I won’t go into here, that it is in my and your best interest that I develop an understanding of what your experience and perspective is —to really grow to understand what your Einsteinian perspective is, to develop a growing awareness of how the light bends as it enters your eyes. It is hard, and it is a lifelong process but it is possible to make progress, and there are many strong reasons for spending focused time and effort on doing so.Basic-Eye-Anatomy A Step Before But, there is a step that both precedes it and is imminently more achievable. The truth is we don’t really need Einsteinein physics or a careful study of the structure of the human eye, or even extreme examples of how those with extraordinary memory do or do not relate to those without. The truth is, we all *know* it to be true. We know that you and I Iook physically different, our taste buds are different, we sound different when we speak or sing, we have different physical skills—we just inherently know that we, as humans, experience the world in different—sometimes completely different–ways. We *know* it, we just forget it when it comes to actually interacting with the rest of the human race. We say things like: That wasn’t funny instead of: I didn’t find that funny Or we catch ourselves thinking things like: How could he/she possibly do that???? What the extraordinary memory example teaches us is that the gap between the extraordinary memory and non-extraordinary memory individuals is not actually an extreme example. The example is a way for us to clearly see how two people are so different that they don’t relate to each other, but as we have proven with Einstein’s theories and with analysis of the human eye, it actually more accurately reflects the norm—that you and I have uniquely different perspectives and neither of us is actually ‘right’. What Do We Do with This Knowledge? So what do we *do* with the knowledge that nothing is absolute—the absolute properties of light are immaterial to how our eye sees it—that you and I are different and relate to things differently? Some readers may be expecting me to now emotionally conclude “let’s do more holding of hands and singing of ‘We are the world!!’ Although the world could probably use more of that, my conclusion is going to be a logical one rather than an emotional one. If you agree with the analysis up to this point, that biology, psychology, even physics are in complete alignment that you and I experience the world in fundamentally different ways, then by extension, you must also agree that the way that we approach each other must reflect that reality if it is to align with the way things actually work. That means catching and correcting ourselves when we find ourselves making absolute statements like “That wasn’t funny”, and correct it to “I didn’t find that funny”. It means finding ways to integrate into our bones that things are not absolute, rather they are the way that the curve of our eye happens to be bending the light which might not be the same way that the light is bent as it traverses your eye curve. When we really think about it further, we realize that if we made a list of things that stretched from here to infinity that we could focus on tuning in our selves, there would be many worthwhile options that we could move to the top of the list. But you could make the argument that this concept—integrating the knowledge that how I see things is neither right nor wrong, it is a function of my perspective and your perspective might be different should be at the top of the list. The truth is we all walk around, to varying degrees, certain that our perspective is not *just* our perspective, it is reality, it is ironclad, it is the way it is rather than it is the way the light bends as it passes through our eye curve. This is a particularly tricky thing because we see through our eyes, we hear through our ears, we breathe through our lungs. The beginning of the solution is to catch ourselves in a thought pattern that has us believing that our view is anything more than our view. This is not an emotional argument. It is *not* a 1,500 work missive encouraging you to ‘embrace your neighbor’. Rather, it is an observation of how things work, how humans are constructed, how the physics and the biology tells us the systems actually work and, with our newfound understanding of how the system operates in hand, the conclusions we must come to about changes in our mindset and behaviors that must follow these conclusions. Making progress on this concept has far reaching power. It has the power to affect the workplace—the person who works for me has a different working style from me and needs a different setup and environment than me to thrive. Personal relationships change when approached with a mindset of ‘he/she is different from me even if I don’t understand or relate to his/her point of view’, it is enough to recognize that my view is not an absolute, it is just my view. Whatever methods we choose that work for us to make progress on seeing the world as our perspective rather than absolute, we would be well served to bring our mindset in line with how human systems actually operate. Leave a Reply | <urn:uuid:323d4005-7078-4eb5-906d-da2baaad4222> | http://exceljockey.com/2014/04/what-people-with-extraordinary-memories-teach-us-about-human-relations/ | mlfoundations/dclm-baseline-1.0-parquet | Rwanda, a small country in central Africa between Zaire and Tanzania, is the size of Vermont. Before the war there was a population of 8,500,000 making it the most densely populated country in Africa. A century ago the original inhabitants of Rwanda were the Twa pygmies who were gradually displaced by the Hutu tribes people and the Tutsis. The Tutsis gained dominance over the Hutus and established a feudal land system with the Tutsis as lords and the Hutus as peasants. In 1890 the Germans took over the country in their expansion of German East Africa. Following World War I Rwanda was mandated by the League of Nations to Belgium, The Belgians cooperated with the Tutsi dominance by including them in their bureaucracy and promoting a Tutsi monopoly of an educational system operated by Catholic missionaries. With a population makeup of 89% Hutus and 10% Tutsis and with the Tutsis firmly in control of the political system and the economy, there was great unrest.1 In 1959 a clash between the two tribes resulted in 100,000 Tutsi deaths. Forced to introduce political reforms when independence was granted in 1962, the Belgians brought a Hutu majority into power, Having lost their privileged status, the Tutsis launched a guerrilla movement followed by intermittent killings by both sides. In 1990 a Tutsi military organization, the Rwandan Patriotic Front known as the RPF and based in Uganda, launched a campaign into Rwanda. This was repulsed with the help of French and Belgian troops, but the Rwandan army went on a rampage against the Tutsis with a tremendous loss of Tutsi lives, and many again fled to Uganda as refugees where the RPF reorganized. By this time there was some Hutus support for the RPF by Hutus opposed to the corrupt government in power. With this historical background and tribal hatred at a fever-pitch by the recurring killings, Rwanda was ripe for a catastrophe. On April 6 a plane carrying the president of Rwanda crashed under mysterious circumstances. The Hutu government blamed the Tutsis, which triggered the Rwandan disaster. The Hutu militia and civilians went on a maniacal Tutsi killing spree. As a million Tutsi refugees poured into Tanzania and countless others into the hills of northern Rwanda, the RPF launched a campaign to gain control of the country and stop the killings. The RPF rapidly defeated the government forces, and when Kigali, the capital ofRwanda, and other key cities fell, there was another mass exodus of refugees. This time a million Hutus and militia, many of whom feared reprisals for the Tutsi killings, crushed into Goma, Zaire and the French-protected area of southwestern Rwanda. A cholera epidemic in the Goma area resulted in 60,000 deaths, and the pathos of the magnitude of the dying and the hellish conditions of the living received wide media coverage. The world, calloused by a steady diet of atrocities, was shocked by the horror of Rwanda. A million people were dead from the killings and from diseases. Over two million refugees were in neighboring countries, and another two million were displaced in their own country. As international aid organizations mobilized to relieve the desperate plight of the Rwandans, two sister organizations, World Medical Mission and Samaritan’s Purse International Relief, directed by Franklin Graham and headquartered in Boone, North Carolina, sent an assessment team to Rwanda to determine how to minister to the needs of those fleeing the carnage. These Christian organizations are dedicated to emergency relief aid to victims of war, famine, disease and natural disasters worldwide. A refugee camp was found at Rutare in the mountains 18 miles north of Kigali in an area controlled by the RPF. Three thousand refugees were arriving each day and eventually the camp total reached102,000. The RPF estimated that the camp had 4,700 orphans, several hundred of whom had no extended family members to care for them and many were forced to scrounge for survival and sleep on the ground. The camp was in desperate need of medical care, food, water and sanitation. Malaria, pneumonia, intestinal parasites, diarrhea and machete and gunshot wounds were prevalent with no medicines and no doctors available. After negotiations with the RPF, Samaritan’s Purse agreed to provide medical services including a surgical unit and care for the orphans. Other international aid organizations involved in providing food, water, and non-food items were CARE, WorldVision, OXFAM, UNICEF and theInternational Red Cross. The RPF agreed to provide security and guards as needed. Having worked for World MedicalMission in several African countries before, I volunteered to go to the Rutare refugee camp as a surgeon with Samaritan’s Purse. Traveling to Rwanda by way of Uganda, we picked up an RPF guard at the border who escorted us to Rutare through frequent RPF roadblocks where we were identified as guests of the RPF. Rutare was located at an elevation of 6,500 feet in beautiful mountainous country. The refugee camp was an amazing tent city of 100,000 people covering the hills. Samaritan’s Purse was assigned several old buildings to convert into a hospital and orphanage. Living arrangements were sleeping bags and tens and a supply of candles. Two empty rooms without water or electricity were designated as operating rooms. I brought three duffel bags of instruments, surgical supplies, anesthetics, medicines, and a head lamp, which was the only light in the operating room. OXFAM set up a water tank at roof level which was supplied daily by water tankers from Uganda, and a small generator was used as a source of electricity for the head lamp. Surgery became a routine of starting the generator before each operation, giving the anesthesia, having no blood available for transfusions, and sterilizing the instruments in a pressure cooker with a kerosene burner at the end of the day. We began each operation with prayer at the operating table, and I was reminded continually of the inscription on a plaque above the entrance to the operating room at a hospital in Swaziland, “He is yours, Lord. Heal him or take him home.” The first few weeks the surgical load was primarily machete and gunshot wounds from the fighting in Kigali 18 miles away. As the RPF rapidly won the war, I began to do more civilian surgery, which is largely obstetrics and gynecology in Africa. For a period of several weeks Samaritan’s Purse was the only surgical service between Kigali and Uganda, and serious surgical problems were being transported to Rutare from as far away as the Uganda border. A tragic consequence of the war was an estimated 50,000 orphans. Samaritan’s Purse established an orphanage for over 400 orphans, many of whom had advanced malnutrition, and deaths were common. Some of the older orphans told stories of seeing their families brutally hacked to death by machete-wielding Hutus, which emphasized the emotional trauma and psychological scarring to which these children had been exposed. A four-year-old boy who had been completely withdrawn and never talked ran up to a two-year-old girl one day and began to talk and laugh as he hugged her. He had found a sister, his only remaining family. The refugee population included very few old people. When asked where the old people were, the response was that they were unable to run fast enough to escape. Problems unrelated to the war surfaced among the refugees, one of which was AIDS. Also called “the slim disease,” AIDS in Africa often presents as a fulminating diarrhea and rapid weight loss leading to death. A large tent, “the diarrhea tent,” was set up, and working here was the most unpleasant of tasks for the nurses on the project. It is estimated that in some areas of Rwanda as many as 40% of the adults have AIDS or are harboring the AIDS virus. As the RPF won the war, the refugees left Rutare to return to what was left of their homes as rapidly as they had arrived. In a period of ten days 70,000 refugees left and roads were lined with the mass migration of people. As the population shifted, Samaritan’s Purse moved part of its staff to the capital, Kigali, to begin rehabilitating a 600-bed hospital with the help of multinational aid organizations. The last surgery I did in Kigali was a tragic case of a 21-year-old pregnant woman who stepped on a land mine with the loss of both her legs in the explosion. We operated with an Italian assistant, a French nurse and a Belgian anesthetist. Since there were no commercial flights serving Kigali when I was due to leave, I hitched a ride on a UN cargo plane in Nairobi, Kenya. Leaving Rwanda, I looked down on a country totally destroyed, a country with no economy, no political stability, no family social structure, and no end in sight. I was overwhelmed with a sense that there was no hope for Rwanda, and then the words of Jeremiah came to mind, “There is nothing too hard for God to do.” Rwanda needs massive international aid, but what the country needs most is a spiritual revival that overcomes the tribal hatred between the Tutsis and the Hutus. The prescription for Rwanda’s ills is the love of Christ in the hearts of men. “Love keeps no record of wrongs. Love does not delight in evil. It always protects, always trusts, always hopes, always perseveres. Love never fails.” 1 Crowther, Jeff, et aI, Africa, (Hawthorn, Australia: Lonely Planet Pub!.). pp. 850–851. Dr. Paauw, a member of Walnut Creek CRC, is a retired general surgeon who makes at least two volunteer medical assistance trips per year to various areas of the world. | <urn:uuid:52fa72c7-4bd3-4eb6-a003-c51053333e20> | https://outlook.reformedfellowship.net/sermons/a-rwandan-experience/ | HuggingFaceFW/fineweb-edu | Feliz Cumpleanos, J. Lo! 1. JLo Birthday: Time Machine Time Machine: What better way to show Jennifer how far she's come then to remind her of where she started? So we recommend the In Living Color DVD Box Set, so she can relive all the bad hair, spandex leotards and questionable dance moves. Still, the spark of celebrity within Jennifer was always apparent. It just took a team of stylists, vocal coaches and choreographers to bring it out. 2. JLo Birthday: Senora Doubtfire Señora Doubtfire: Jennifer has her hands full these days with her newborn twins Max and Emme, and since she and hubby Marc Anthony, claim they're raising their babies without the help of a nanny. Riiight. Well, if that is indeed the case, we'd like to give Jennifer a hand on the home front by getting her her very own nanny--someone to keep the babies fed, burped, diapered and ready for hand-off whenever Jennifer is ready for them, so she can get her kids all the way to college without ever breaking a perfectly-manicured nail. Of course, Nanny will have to be an old, gray-haired type so there's never a risk that she'll catch Marc's eye. 3. JLo Birthday: The Music Men The Music Men: Let's face it, she may have yachts, jets and minks galore, but the one thing Jennifer hasn't had in a long time is a hit single. That's why we're giving her a gift certificate for one studio session with multi-platinum hitmakers Timbaland and Justin Timberlake. If it worked for Madonna, it should certainly work for our girl. 4. JLo Birthday: On the 6 On the 6: We know Jennifer likes to keep it real, but let's face it: she gave up interacting with us little people a long time ago. So in order to keep Jenny from the Block connected to her roots without having to mingle with regular folk, we present her with her very own private car on the 6 train, the New York City subway line that takes her from her posh penthouse in Lower Manhattan, up to her mami's house in the Bronx. Jennifer's car will feature seats upholstered by Roberto Cavalli, Jo Malone candles to burn away the smell of the working class and, of course, buckets of chilled champagne. 5. JLo Birthday: Kills Shutterbugs Dead Kills Shutterbugs Dead: Rumors of crazy diva behavior seem to fly around Jennifer like mosquitos, so to keep those gossip-mongers at bay, we formulated a can of fast-acting Rumor Repellent. One spray of this powerful stuff will make headlines like "Jennifer Lopez Hires Masseuse for Newborn Twins" disappear. It also works double-duty to ward off unwanted paparazzi, and kill any photos taken from unflattering angles. | <urn:uuid:65a87210-c2d0-442f-80d6-4e179eec75e0> | http://www.latina.com/entertainment/feliz-cumpleantildeos-j-lo-0 | mlfoundations/dclm-baseline-1.0-parquet | Half of all books are unread (14 Posts) legoplayingmumsunite Thu 06-Mar-14 22:54:30 For world book day a survey has shown that the average British house has 138 books and over half of them are unread. I have lots more books than that but the majority are read (although I can't claim to have read every recipe in my sizable collection of cookery books). So, what percentage of your books are unread? annabelcaramel Thu 06-Mar-14 22:58:40 None! I'm really surprised by that statistic. But then I read lots, and even if a book is dreadful I'll finish it; it feels very wrong not to for some reason. ShadowFall Thu 06-Mar-14 23:26:57 I've got stacks of books waiting to be read - I haven't counted, but there's definitely far more than 138 unread books in my house. I find it difficult to resist buying books that look interesting when I accidentally wander into bookshops. But, the proportion of unread books definitely make up much less than 50% of the total number of books in my house. Cheboludo Thu 06-Mar-14 23:29:42 Funny, I've been thinking about this recently. I buy far more books than I could ever hope to have the time to read and I assumed all readers did the same. I'm optimistically stockpiling them for retirement or quarantine or something, I guess. I was shocked when a good friend said they hadn't bought anything in the recent kindle sale because they were already reading something - I got my kindle 8 months ago but I've already bought 200 books. blush So, having done a very quick calculation, I reckon there's about 2,500 adult books, 500 children's books & 250 cookbooks in our house. I'd say half of the adult books have been read, 450 of the children's books & all of the cookbooks have been browsed but only about 50 are used regularly. bibliomania Fri 07-Mar-14 09:29:21 Oh well, it keeps the publishers in business. A man's reach must exceed his grasp/ Or what's a heaven for? I don't buy many books - nearly always get them from the library. I've moved quite a lot so have had to prune my book collection fairly ruthlessly at various points. Most of the books I own are on my shelves because they are old favourites that I'm likely to re-read (although over the last couple of years, I haven't done much re-reading. Too many new books I want to plunge into!) I would say I've read at least 95% of the books I own. DuchessofMalfi Fri 07-Mar-14 13:27:55 I have loads of books on my kindle and paperbacks that I haven't read yet. I think there's a huge difference between "unread" and "waiting to be read" though. Unread would indicate, to me, that they were bought a long time ago and probably won't ever be read, but waiting to be read would indicate you intend to read them at some point. If I were to look at my collection of books in that way, I'd say there were very few unread books, but a huge amount of waiting to be read books. That differentiation makes me feel a lot better about them smile Impatientismymiddlename Fri 07-Mar-14 13:29:29 We have well over 1000 books and they have all been read except the Katie price autobiography that somebody bought me for Xmas and I can't imagine that it will be read before it makes it's way to the charity shop. mimbleandlittlemy Fri 07-Mar-14 15:30:44 Duchess is right, as always. Big difference between unread and waiting to be read. I have a lot of non-fiction I've not read from cover-to-cover but mostly have dipped in and out of. I've read all bar 32 of the fiction - and that's because I always have a nice little pile both by the bed and on kindle so I can choose according to how I'm feeling when I finish the previous book. Acinonyx Fri 14-Mar-14 09:17:32 Yes it's the non-fiction books read in bits here and there that tend to pile up. We have 4 figures worth and would have more if only we had a bigger house. Books that are clearly never going to be read go into the bi-annual culling process. There are usual maybe 6 or more novels waiting to be read - so less than 1%. I try not to buy more if there are 6 or more waiting. Loads! A good 20-30 in my uni room at least, separated from the read ones. I do read them eventually! But when I get to choose a new book after finishing one, I want to have lots of choice, who knows what mood I'm in. I make all sorts of promises to myself not to buy new books, and then I fall on something in a 2nd hand shop which I'll never find again, and I end up leaving with a stack.....to add to the stack in my room. Everysilverlining Fri 21-Mar-14 10:18:30 I have far more books than that, but of those in the house which are fiction I think about 50% are unread - because once they have been read they go to the charity shop if I am unlikely to read them again... it's a question of space. Also an academic husband and genral interest means we have a lot of non-fiction. I suspect almost none of those are compeltely unread. MsMischief Fri 21-Mar-14 10:19:23 I bet I've got over 100 unread and of these there are probably about 20 that I'll never read. The never read ones fall into two categories. Worthy classics that I want to read but keep passing over for 'next time' and shit that people have given me that I have no interest in (50 shades, romances about poor but bright girls from 18C fishing villages who fall for scoundrels etc) gastrognome Sun 23-Mar-14 06:53:35 I have plenty of unread books. Some were bought for me but I know I won't like them. Others I am meaning to read. Others I bought on recommendation or a whim but no longer appeal (I may or may not get round to reading them!) I probably have more unfinished than unread books though. I used to struggle to the end of every book I read but now if I'm not enjoying one I put it to one side. There are too many books out there that I want to read to waste time on something I'm not enjoying... Few are left unread thanks to DH's years of commuting. And he works in publishing so keeps getting free books! Join the discussion Join the discussion Register now | <urn:uuid:53ceea84-8584-43d9-8987-09dbc1fc7e9a> | http://www.mumsnet.com/Talk/adult_fiction/2017980-Half-of-all-books-are-unread | mlfoundations/dclm-baseline-1.0-parquet | Join us today! You can help to support our vital work protecting Scotland's wildlife. * Free entry to all our visitor centres and reserves * Subscription to Scottish Wildlife magazine * A copy of the Exploring Reserves guide * Invitation to exclusive talks and events Visit scottishwildlifetrust.org.uk for more information or call 0131 312 7765. You might also like to visit … Falls of Clyde Visitor Centre Next to New Lanark World Heritage Site and part of Clyde Valley Woodlands National Nature Reserve. Visit for waterfalls, walks and wildlife. Look out for dippers, kingfishers and otters. Join the ranger for badger watching and other events. ANew Lanark ML11 9DBT 01555 665 262 firstname.lastname@example.org @TheFallsOfClyde @TheFallsOfClyde Montrose Basin Visitor Centre Spectacular views over the wildlife reserve, exhibitions with interactive displays and a host of children's activities – all within this four-star visitor centre. A real hotspot for waders, sand martins, kingfishers and pink-footed geese. AMontrose DD10 9TAT 01674 676 336 email@example.com @MontroseBasin @MontroseBasin For information on places to see near you, visit our website: scottishwildlifetrust.org.uk/visit Loch of the Lowes Visitor Centre Dunkeld Perthshire PH8 0HH T01350 727 337 firstname.lastname@example.org @LochoftheLowes @LochoftheLowes By car Admission* If using sat nav, use the postcode PH8 0ES. Follow the signposts from the A9. The reserve is located 1.8 miles north east of Dunkeld, just off the A923 Blairgowrie road. Free car parking is available at the visitor centre. By public transport The nearest railway station is Dunkeld & Birnam. There are also bus stops in Dunkeld and in Birnam. On foot Follow the Fungarth Path from Dunkeld which brings you to the reserve and visitor centre. Opening times 1 Mar to 31 Oct: open daily from 10.30am-5pm 1 Nov to 28 Feb: open Fri-Sun from 10.30am-4pm Adults Concessions £4.50 £4.00 Family £8.50 (2 adults and 2 children under 16) Children £1.00 Members FREE Discounted rates apply from Nov-Feb: adults £4.00, concessions £3.00, family £8.00, children and members free. 10% discount for groups of 11+. Special provision The visitor centre is wheelchair friendly, including toilet facilities. An induction loop is fitted. Education activities are available for school groups. Ask at the visitor centre for more information. Dogs welcome under strict control on woodland path. Guide dogs only in the visitor centre and viewing hides. Restricted opening hours over Christmas and New Year period. * The admission payment includes an optional 10% donation which is to allow the Scottish Wildlife Trust to claim Gift Aid. Please advise our visitor centre staff if you do not wish to pay the additional donation. scottishwildlifetrust.org.uk Harbourside House 110 Commercial Street Edinburgh EH6 6NF T 0131 312 7765 E email@example.com The Scottish Wildlife Trust is a company limited by guarantee, registered in Scotland (no. SC040247). It is also a Scottish registered charity (no SC005792). Cover image © Tom Marshall. Middle pages/background © Michael Davison. Falls of Clyde © Ida Maspero. Kingfisher © Darin Smith. We care for the environment and only use paper from managed forests. Jan 2020. What's on at Loch of the Lowes 2020 What's going on at Loch of the Lowes this year? Every day until 31 Oct Wildlife-themed family-fun activities Learn fascinating facts about wildlife! Did you know that all wildlife is dependent on water and affected by climate change? Loads of fun children's activities and crafts available. Check out Facebook and Twitter for a new theme each season. Various dates throughout the year March Sat 21 at 10am-2pm April Sat 4 at 10.30am4pm Wed 8 and Wed 22 at 7pm-9pm Fri 10 at 7pm-9pm Wed 15 and Wed 29 at 5.30am7am May Tues 5 at 8am-10am Spring birdsong walk Discover the wonderful world of birdsong in the spring. Join the ranger for a morning walk along the woodland path to find out which birds are singing, what they are saying and how to identify common calls. Non-member £6, member £5.*† How much does it cost? Events are free of charge unless otherwise stated and normal visitor centre charges apply. We invite donations for our free events. If you join the Scottish Wildlife Trust today, entry to the visitor centre is free! Escape room – egg theft at Loch of the Lowes! You have one hour to recover the stolen osprey eggs. Failure to do so will result in the failure of this year's nest. If you succeed, there may still be a chance for the eggs to hatch! £60 (suitable for 3 to 6 people).*† Dùn Coillich Community Woodland Join our ranger and partners from the Heart of Scotland Forest Partnership for a day of tree planting. Outdoor clothing, walking boots and packed lunch required. Free event. Contact firstname.lastname@example.org to book.* Optics fair A wide selection of binoculars and telescopes to try and buy, with expert advice from the Viking Optical representative. People's Postcode Lottery beaver watch Come along to a talk about beavers, the first formerly extinct mammal to be officially reintroduced to Scotland – with a chance to spot them from our hides! Non-member £10, member £8, child £5.*† Poole Harbour Osprey Reintroduction Project nesting ospreys on the south coast of England. Non-member Join Liv Cooper to learn more about the reintroduction of £6, member £5, child £3. * Sunrise on the loch Join us to view and chat about early morning activity on the loch with the chance to spot beavers, great crested grebes, displaying goldeneyes, ospreys and more. Hot drinks and a snack included! Non-member £10, member £8, child £5.*† Every Wed at 7pm-9pm Sat 9 at 10.30am4pm Sat 16 at 4pm 10.30am- June Every 7pm-9pm Wed at Sat 13 and 10.30am- Sun 14 at 4pm Sat 20 at 10am-1pm July Every 7pm-9pm Wed at Thu 9 at 12.30pm 10.30am- Tues 14 at 9.30pm 7.30pm- Tues 21 at People's Postcode Lottery beaver watch Come along to a talk about beavers, the first formerly extinct mammal to be officially reintroduced to Scotland – with a chance to spot them from our hides! Non-member £10, member £8, child £5.*† Scottish Badger Week celebrations Join a representative from Scottish Badgers for an illustrated talk at 2pm. Try your hand at some badger detective work throughout the day – can you solve the crime?* Optics fair A wide selection of binoculars and telescopes to try and buy, with expert advice from the Viking Optical representative. People's Postcode Lottery beaver watch Come along to a talk about beavers, the first formerly extinct mammal to be officially reintroduced to Scotland – with a chance to spot them from our hides! Non-member £10, member £8, child £5.*† Big Wild Weekend – 30 Days Wild Take part in this year's 30 Days Wild and join us for a weekend of wild activities – find out what lies beneath the loch and try your hand at building a mini beaver dam! Wild Waters Week with the British Dragonfly Society Join Andrea Hudspeth for an interesting morning learning about dragonflies and how you can help the endangered northern damselfly. The workshop includes a talk and outdoor practical session. Outdoor clothing, walking boots and packed lunch required. Free event.*† People's Postcode Lottery beaver watch Come along to a talk about beavers, the first formerly extinct mammal to be officially reintroduced to Scotland – with a chance to spot them from our hides! Non-member £10, member £8, child £5.*† Perth and District Beekeepers Association Come along to find out why honey bees are so important. A drop-in session to view live bees and talk to the team with the chance to buy honey and see the bees that made it. Saving Scotland's Red Squirrels Join your local Saving Scotland's Red Squirrels Conservation Officer for an illustrated presentation on Tayside's red squirrel population. Light refreshments provided. Free event.* 10.30am- Garth Wood and Balchroich Meadow 3.30pm Join our ranger and partners from the Heart of Scotland Forest Partnership for a day of conservation work. Help tackle encroaching bracken, explore the regenerative 'rewilding' project at Garth Wood and undertake some wildflower ID on the meadow at Keltneyburn. Outdoor clothing, walking boots and packed lunch required. Free event. To book contact email@example.com.* Come prepared! Please wear suitable outdoor clothing to children's events, outdoor events and walks; bring a torch to evening events. Children under 8 must be accompanied by an adult. Meet at the visitor centre unless otherwise stated. Walks subject to a minimum attendance being met. Thurs 30 at 10am-3pm August Wed 5 and 7pm-9pm Wed 12 at Fri 21 at 7pm-9pm Wed 26 at 8.30pm 7pm- Fri 28 at 7pm-9pm September Fri 11 at 7pm-9pm Sat 26 at 2.30pm 10.30am- October Sat 31 at 3.30pm5.30pm; procession at 4.30pm January 2021 Wed 20 at 10am-3pm An introduction to badger surveying Join an expert from Scottish Badgers to learn the basics of surveying for badgers. An illustrated presentation and an outdoor practical session, where we can put our tracking skills to the test, is included. Outdoor clothing, walking boots and packed lunch required.* Don't miss out! Please note: * advance booking is essential for these events; † not suitable for children under 8. Book your place by phoning Loch of the Lowes Visitor Centre on 01350 727 337, or visit scottishwildlifetrust.org.uk/events Schiehallion Join our ranger and partners from the Heart of Scotland Forest Partnership for a day of bracken bashing and tree maintenance on the lower slopes of Schiehallion. Outdoor clothing, walking boots and packed lunch required. Free event. Contact firstname.lastname@example.org to book.* People's Postcode Lottery beaver watch Come along to a talk about beavers, the first formerly extinct mammal to be officially reintroduced to Scotland – with a chance to spot them from our hides! Non-member £10, member £8, child £5.*† Moth night Join us for a fascinating evening finding out about moths and come along the following morning to empty the trap to count and identify the moths. Outdoor clothing, walking boots and torch required. Non-member £8, member £6, child £3.* Polly Pullar – a life for animals Join Polly – naturalist, wildlife rehabilitator and author – for an engaging talk about her love of nature and her experiences rehabilitating wildlife. Non-member £8, member £6, child £3.* Brilliant bats Join us for a talk and a guided walk along the woodland path, and try out bat detecting! Outdoor clothing, walking boots and torch required. Non-member £6, member £5, child £3.* Pine martens in Perthshire Join Adrian Davis of Wild Outdoor Scotland for an informative talk on one of Scotland's most elusive mammals: the pine marten. Non-member £6, member £5, child £3.* Fungi foray Join expert Tony Wilson for this great opportunity to forage for, and identify, fungi species at Loch of Lowes Wildlife Reserve. Outdoor clothing, walking boots and packed lunch required. Non-member £8, member £6, child £3.* Samhuinn – winter is coming Join us to celebrate Halloween with a difference! Samhuinn (the Celtic New Year) marks the beginning of the journey into winter. Make masks and lanterns, and join in the twilight procession. Weather permitting, we will have a fire with hot drinks and marshmallow toasting. Child £5.* | <urn:uuid:507e778d-3f65-4b44-a06d-680317263d14> | https://scottishwildlifetrust.org.uk/wp-content/uploads/2020/03/LOW-RES-4405-LOL-Whats-On-2020.pdf | HuggingFaceFW/finepdfs-edu | Ehud Furman is a tech entrepreneur with interests in several internet companies. During the past few years Ehud founded Cyclicom, an online gaming affiliation business, LookupPage, an online directory for businesses and individuals and Veribo, an online reputation management service. Previously Ehud was the managing director of the European arm of, the world's leading shopping search and shopping comparison company (NASDAQ: SHOP). Early in 2000 Ehud relocated with his family to the United Kingdom to start the (previously Dealtime) European operation, where he built and managed the company's operations in the UK, France and Germany. Under Ehud's leadership the company earned a leading position in the European web price comparison space, and it was nominated along with the company's US business as the world's leading shopping search engine (Nielsen net ratings, July 2005). was acquired by eBay Inc in August 2005 for $635M. Ehud played a key role throughout the acquisition and served as an ebay executive until December 2005. Prior to joining, Ehud served as a senior manager at the Ernst & Young management consulting firm. Ehud earned a B.Sc degree in Economics and Management from the Hebrew University of Jerusalem and he is also a graduate of the London Business School senior executive education program. Ehud Furman's Interests Ehud's hobbies include spending time with his family, listening to music, swimming, skiing, and running. Ehud Furman - Huffington post Ehud Furman on the BBC news Ehud Furman on NewsWire | <urn:uuid:572ae066-2e37-4c05-b511-6c835ac42ed3> | http://www.ehudfurman.com/ | mlfoundations/dclm-baseline-1.0-parquet | Skip to main content What is innovative surface transportation finance? "Innovative finance" for surface transportation infrastructure is a broadly defined term that encompasses a combination of techniques and specially designed mechanisms to supplement traditional financing sources and methods. Innovative finance for surface transportation includes such measures as follows: • New financing mechanisms designed to leverage resources • New funds management techniques • New institutional arrangements The U.S. Congress has a long history of funding surface transportation infrastructure through grants from the Highway Trust Fund. Innovative finance provides an array of tools and institutional arrangements as alternatives to traditional, grant-based funding strategies. Innovative finance techniques have been designed to enhance the effectiveness of grant management techniques and bridge investment gaps between available resources and infrastructure needs. Several of these techniques may not be new or particularly innovative outside of the transportation sector. It is important to recognize that the benefits associated with these tools are not mutually exclusive and that there is potential synergy in combining tools on a single project. What are some of the constraints of the traditional approach to surface transportation financing? Traditionally, the government has financed transportation infrastructure primarily through a combination of state and local taxes and fees and-for major projects-Federal grants based on national motor fuels taxes. These resources were typically combined to fund projects on a "pay-as-you-go" basis, meaning that projects have often been built in phases or increments as funds become available over a period of years. Project funding has been tied closely to Federal and state cash management policies, with nearly exclusive responsibility for the process vested in state and local public transportation agencies. Because of competing demands on scarce public resources, state and local governments are faced with the challenge of inadequate funding to meet growing transportation needs, and critical projects may face years of delay before funding is available. State and local transportation entities understand the costs associated with project delays and have sought ways to get projects built faster by utilizing innovative finance techniques. However, innovative finance itself does not solve the problem of inadequate funding. Rather it is a group of tools that can increase the efficiency and flexibility in employing existing resources and managing the timing of their use. New money is not created, but projected money can be leveraged and utilized sooner. While the pay-as-you-go approach (conventional financing) has the benefit of simplicity and avoids interest costs associated with indebtedness, it involves the hidden costs associated with inflation and foregone economic development, especially for projects delayed several years. In addition, delaying projects that reduce emissions or eliminate safety hazards also has obvious negative political and economic effects. What are the basic innovative finance tools? Innovative finance tools include a wide array of tools and programs to advance surface transportation projects. The following links guide users to the Tools & Programs content area of Innovative Finance that provides detailed information on specific mechanisms: How is innovative finance different from conventional financing? Employing the tools of innovative finance differs from the pay-as-you-go approach (or conventional finance ) in four ways: • It enables new ways for existing revenue to be used to finance highways • It utilizes financing mechanisms such as debt finance • It utilizes fund management techniques • It establishes new institutional arrangements What are some of the driving forces behind interest in innovative surface transportation finance? • Funding shortfalls • Making the most efficient use of existing resources • Leveraging existing resources • Expediting the implementation of needed projects • Private sector interest in project development What are the primary objectives of innovative finance? Innovative finance tools are intended to maximize the ability of states to leverage Federal capital, attract new sources of funds to transportation investment, accelerate project completion dates, and more effectively utilize existing funds. Who is using innovative finance? • State (DOTs) • County and Municipal Governments • Transit Agencies • Turnpike and Toll Road Authorities • Public Benefit Corporations • Private Infrastructure Developers • Concession Companies • Suppliers What are the advantages of using innovative finance? Innovative finance: • Enables new sources of capital • Leverages existing financial resources • Expedites project implementation What are the barriers to innovative finance? State officials wishing to implement an innovative finance program may face unique challenges that will potentially be different from those faced by other states, due to the varying programs, policies, and political traditions from state to state. Enabling legislation may be required for some innovative finance programs, such as the issuance of GARVEE bonds or the establishment of SIBs. What types of projects lend themselves best to innovative finance? Transportation officials must evaluate each project individually and determine what is the best financing approach. Some project types may be more suited for one type of financing tool. For example, the right financial tools can accelerate projects with the potential to generate revenue , such as through tolls or some other dedicated tax or user fee, are good choices for loans and credit support, since there is a dedicated repayment source. In these cases, the users of the facility pay for project debt over a period of years until the debt is paid off. The pyramid drawing below highlights the distinction between the different mechanisms and programs that are used to finance both revenue and non-revenue projects. The pyramid's shape reflects the relative number of projects in each funding category. The base of the pyramid represents the vast majority of projects that do not generate revenues as a matter of public policy and choice and, therefore, will continue to rely upon funding primarily through grants. The Federal government has implemented enhanced grant management techniques, such as advance construction and grant-supported debt service, to move Federally-funded projects to construction more quickly. The middle layer of the pyramid represents those projects that can be at least partially funded with debt finance payable from project-related revenues. However, these projects also require some form of public credit assistance to gain market access. The tip of the pyramid represents the very small number of projects that generate enough revenue to be financed on a standalone basis with limited governmental assistance. Financing Pyramid How can the private sector participate in innovative finance? The private sector can participate in the innovative financing of the nation's surface transportation infrastructure through public-private partnerships, concessions, and lease transactions. Several Federal programs can provide attractive financing to private investors and infrastructure developers including the following: How are innovative finance programs created? Government-sponsored innovative finance programs are usually created through the enactment of specific legislation establishing the parameters for the program, including purpose, eligibility, use of the program, types of assistance, and requirements. The Federal government often creates pilot programs to test new ideas. Pilot programs generally allow a small, specified number of projects to move forward on a test basis and exempt those projects and their funding from any legal restrictions. Pilot programs require close follow-up and documentation of results, which is most often documented in reports to Congress. When pilot programs are found to be effective, they may be incorporated into law and can be used on a wider basis. For example, the TE-045 (Innovative Finance Test and Evaluation Program) of 1995 was used to facilitate several pilot projects. The following financing tools were tested under the TE-045 program and have now been approved as standard features of the Federal-aid Highway Program: What are some examples of current or recent projects that have been financed through innovative means? Examples of current or recent projects that have been financed through innovative means can be viewed in the Innovative Finance Project Profiles section. To view PDF files download the Adobe Acrobat Reader® | <urn:uuid:47f1ab55-b063-49a9-9ef8-731114147743> | http://www.fhwa.dot.gov/IPD/finance/faqs/default.aspx | mlfoundations/dclm-baseline-1.0-parquet | Anaerobic digestion is a natural biological process that turns organic matter into biogas. Biogas is a flexible and long-lasting source of renewable energy. A process called anaerobic digestion uses microbes to break down food without oxygen. As a byproduct, biogas is made. A lot of people are interested in this eco-friendly technology because it looks like a good way to deal with organic waste and make useful energy at the same time. Anaerobic Digestion Process Microorganisms break down organic matter without oxygen, which is called anaerobic digestion. This biological process takes place in anaerobic digestors, which are sealed containers that are made to make the best conditions for the microbes that break down the food. Biogas can be made from many different types of organic materials, such as agricultural waste, municipal solid waste, animal manure, wastewater sludge, and energy crops. The type of feedstock used depends on what is available locally, how waste is managed, and what the biogas is going to be used for in the end. Different types of microorganisms work together to break down complex organic compounds into simpler molecules during anaerobic digestion. The main steps in microbial activity are hydrolysis, acidogenesis, acetogenesis, and methanogenesis. These reactions produce biogas that is high in methane. Biogas is mostly made up of methane (CH4) and carbon dioxide (CO2). It also has small amounts of hydrogen sulphide (H2S), nitrogen (N2), and water vapour. The amount of methane in biogas is very important because it determines how much energy it has and how it can be used. | <urn:uuid:9ff68f58-ce73-4d8f-bda1-87ec5b54914c> | https://watermanaustralia.com/product/biogas-upgradation-plant/ | HuggingFaceFW/fineweb-edu | Causes of failure in WASSCE Students' Perspective WHAT ARE THE CHALLENGES WITH TEACHING AND LEARNING OF MATHEMATICS IN YOUR SCHOOL? STUDENTS RESPONSES What are the challenges with teaching and learning of Mathematics in your school? / i i l Thi k h i l d ll Frequency Percent 36.2 5.7 0.6 6.9 3.4 2.3 8.6 3.4 3.4 1.1 | 63 | |---| | 10 | | 1 | | 12 | | 6 | | 4 | | 15 | | 6 | | 6 | | 2 | 2 What are the challenges with teaching and learning of Mathematics in your school? Cont'd Low students interest due to the misconception that Mathematics is a difficult subject. boards, information. completed". Frequency Percent 6 3.4 2.3 2.9 3.4 1.1 5.7 1.1 0.6 0.6 4.6 1.1 1.1 100 | | 4 | |---|---| | s dependent on class teachings only without further studies/practices as they prefer to spend | | | | 5 | | | 6 | | | 2 | | | 10 | | | 2 | | | 1 | | | 1 | | | 8 | | | 2 | | | 2 | T t l 174 SUGGESTIONS FOR IMPROVING THE LEARNING OF MATHEMATICS? Suggestions for improving the learning of mathematics Frequency Percent Teachers should encourage students with statements like "you can do it", "you can do of syllabus. deliver well. Total 10 5.7 0.6 40.8 8.6 8.6 9.8 9.8 5.2 4.6 1.1 5.2 100 | tion of the misconception about the subject. | 1 | |---|---| | | 71 | | | 15 | | | 15 | | | 17 | | | 17 | | | 9 | | | 8 | | | 2 | | | 9 | | | 174 | What are the challenges with teaching and learning of Science in your school? Frequency Percent practical work. Total 15.5 2.9 18.4 40.2 1.1 1.7 8.6 2.9 8.6 100 | ries preventing performance of practical sessions. Only science students go far with | 27 | |---|---| | | 5 | | | 32 | | | 70 | | | 2 | | | 3 | | | 15 | | | 5 | | | 15 | | | 174 | Suggestions for improving the learning of science Frequency Percent 1.7 1.7 9.2 9.2 48.3 14.4 12.1 1.1 2.3 100 | ttention should be given to all programmes. | 3 | |---|---| | | 16 | | | 16 | | | 84 | | | 25 | | | 21 | | | 2 | | | 4 | | | 174 | Total # COMMENT 1 "Since Form Form One, One, our our Elective Elective Maths Maths teacher teacher was was not not regular regular in in class class and and now now he he has has stopped stopped and and we we are are in in form form three three but but our our foundation foundation in in (elective) (elective) maths maths is is very very poor poor . . What What help help can can we we get? get? We We find find it it difficult difficult in in answering answering terminal terminal examination examination questions questions . . " " "We "We also also got got a a core core maths maths (teacher) (teacher) when when we we came came to to form form two two 3 3 rd rd term term due due to to some some changes changes that that was was made made and and we we are are far far behind behind time time . . What What help help can can be be given given to to us us urgently urgently . . " " Revamping study skills 'For poor performing students, the root of the problem may not be in the material or how they are taught but how they choose to write notes, study and prepare for exams' Change the ineffective study habits they are accustomed to. Improving study skills increase positive student behaviours and reduces disciplinary offenses in schools. Revamping Study Skills (back to basics) Not assuming current students know how to study or can do well on their own but to support them to set life and academic goals and improve or revamp their study skills/habits regimen. Teach how to take, make, review and summarise notes in maths and science e.g. Cornell notes taking system.. Enhancing retention : Review notes soon after a lesson is taught instead of bulking them for exams to cram, mind/mapping or doddling. Move beyond mere reading or skimming notes to select/organize course materials to study – theory, practical, principles, vocabulary, formulary etc. Test taking strategies teaching how to take test – how to answer multiple and objective test items. Choosing the right questions and practice test questions. Answer word problems, application/reasoning questions, formulars Biological drawings Graphs Diagrams Units of measurements Practical problems Revamping Study Skills cont. (training the brain to get the most out of studying) Training the brain Our brains do better if we give ourselves tasks. You will learn more if you study an hour per day over 10 days than if you study 10 hours the day before an exam/reading culture. Learn and Focus on reviewing (not cramming) in the last day or two before an exam. It is hard to learn if you are cramming! Be Active in the learning process/Review/Practice Write notes, write vocabulary, write own questions, listening to recorded materials. Read exercises loud. Memorizing some facts, Working through problems /exercises with friends. Teach it After learning about a topic, trying to explain it to your study mates, friends. We learn concepts more deeply when we teach them. Current students are special students: they face a lot of distraction Maximising concentration and minimizing distractions from study plan helps information to be locked in the sub conscious and super conscious minds. Distracted by over 200 social media, Mobile phones, tablets Friends, Television/Video/Music Game centres and entertainment centres Food joints, Fashion, Unhealthy Competitions Sakawa, love for money, galamsey, selling of items, gambling, peer pressure etc. Revamping time management habits: maximize concentration Study time is study time. Organising study time: Personal time table, To do list, monthly planner, weekly or monthly planner/ journal/alarm clocks/calendar to remind or keep track of assignments and test dates. Meeting deadline for assignments Managing free time or busy time Regular attendance to classes especially after registration for WASSCE, non compromise on absences. Avoid stating up too late studying for a test! Sleep is significant. Revamping the study environment: home or school Physical location: Quiet not noisy; dormitories/classrooms/library/prep time - supervision. Required. Studying Outside: Choosing multiple places for study keep out boredom e.g. Amphitheater, under trees, Time : Afternoon, evening or early morning sessions. They must sleep enough in the night to get refreshed in the morning (at least 6 -8hours) Physical health: Must be in good health and not hungry or angry or sleepy Study materials: Very handy.: calculator, pens, pencils, dictionary, ruler etc. Learning style: Find out how they Learn: visual learner, audio learner, tactile learner Study groups: Collaboration, teamwork sharing, Netiquette: Plagiarism, online language and communication, online learning Revamping motivation Intrinsic and extrinsic rewards, every student wants to succeed- Push to learn factors: Scholarships, marking and scoring exercises and giving constructive feedback (WWW) not marking exercises is demotivating Teasers: Chocolate, money, field trips, prizes, school terminal reports, student of the week etc. Feedback: Constructive feedback motivate; negative feedback demotivate (poor student, lazy student, you are good for nothing, 0/10, fail, bad student, maths is difficult Praise and ranking can motivate and demotivate void excellent, good boy etc.) School infrastructure, beautiful landscape. Canes/ corporal punishment demotivate ???? Revamping Mathematical and scientific literacy Building vocabulary Origin of most terminologies is Latin or Greek E.g. alpha, beta, phi, omega, kappa, sigma, Tele means far Meter means measure e.g. photometer, micro meter, voltmeter, barometer, thermometer, ammeter, Photo means light e.g. photometer, photosynthesis, Revamping relationship with the students in order to change habits they are accustomed to. 12 Most Important things kids want from their teachers-Maiers 1. Greet me each day: Wish me good morning, and send me off with a "see you tomorrow." 2. Smile: When you look at me, let me see happiness in your eyes. 3. Give me your attention: Sit and talk with me privately; even if only for a second. 4. Imagine with me: Help me dream of things I might be able to do; not just the things I need to do now. I want to be a doctor , help me to be!! Teachers must keep calm. 12 Most Important things kids want from their teachers-Maiers 5. Give me challenging content and assignments Show me how to handle it. Teach me what to do. 6. Ask about me: Inquire about my weekend, the game I played, the places I go. It shows you care about my life. 7. Let me have time: Time to let things sink in. Time to think. Time to reflect, process, and play. 8. Demand of me: Hold me accountable to high standards. Don't let me get away with what you know I am capable of doing better. 3/2/2016 12 Most Important things kids want from their teachers (cont.) 9. Notice Me: Leave special messages in my desk or locker. Just a quick note that says you notice something right. 10. Let me ask the questions: Even if my questions are off topic, let me ask them. It will show that I am thinking about new perspectives, curious, and willing to learn more. Let me have the chance to show what I am wondering about, not just what I know. 11. Engage me: I came to you in love with learning. Keep me excited, keep me wanting more. 12. Trust me : Believe that I can do it. Allow me the chance. I promise to show you I can. THANK YOU | <urn:uuid:3fdc5e9a-bac9-470a-b4a8-ea6a53e2ae4d> | http://www.moe.gov.gh/assets/media/docs/Anglican_-_Causes_of_failure_in_WASSCE.pptx_miklin_presntation_.pdf | HuggingFaceFW/finepdfs-edu | tag:blogger.com,1999:blog-10348701.post6105657943661833367..comments2021-06-16T16:08:11.648-07:00Comments on Right on the Left Coast: Views From a Conservative Teacher: Too Many College Students Need Remedial MathDarrenhttp://www.blogger.com/profile/15730642770935985796noreply@blogger.comBlogger5125tag:blogger.com,1999:blog-10348701.post-25875876619964536912008-05-16T04:21:00.000-07:002008-05-16T04:21:00.000-07:00Ellen, your state mandate reminds me of an apocryp...Ellen, your state mandate reminds me of an apocryphal story about communism that my father liked to tell:<BR/><BR/>Since nails are measured by the pound the central bureau responsible for the production of building supplies mandated that some certain number of pounds of nails must be made. Since it's approximately as difficult to make one one-pound nail as it is to make one one-ounce nail the nail factory supervisors switched over to making very large nails which allowed them to handily meet their quotas.<BR/><BR/>You can take the story as an example of the inevitable, cynical tricks people will pull to avoid doing more work then they have too and you'd be right but you also wouldn't be comprehensive. A similar outcome is possible even with the best of intentions on the part of all parties. In any complex set of requirements there's always room for honest misinterpretation.<BR/><BR/>But that may not be the worst aspect of centralized administration.<BR/><BR/>Look at the direction of the arrow of responsibility.<BR/><BR/>Rather then being responsible to the hero of the Great Patriotic War who strolls into the local hardware store to get a couple of pounds of nailskis to repair his honest, socialist chicken coop the nail factory is responsible to the central nail directorate. Maybe after a couple of years of proudly reporting that the state has a 200-year, and rising, supply of 18-inch drifts (those are really big nails) complaints from prospective chicken-coop repairers gets the nail directorate to revisit the nail production mandates.<BR/><BR/>Even with the best of intentions the structure of the organization, the top-down orientation, works against efficiency and efficacy. Without the best of intentions you get the Detroit Public Schools system with its 25% graduation rate.Anonymousnoreply@blogger.comtag:blogger.com,1999:blog-10348701.post-62058873177911622472008-05-15T16:15:00.000-07:002008-05-15T16:15:00.000-07:00And here I am...but seriously, our state has initi...And here I am...but seriously, our state has initiated this mandate of four years of each of the four core subjects, which on the surface appears to be a good thing. However, this means that kids who struggle to pass Algebra II will be thrust into Pre-Cal. After a couple of years lingering in Pre-Cal, the end of course test will come up and they will either pass and graduate or not. Once again, on the surface this appears good and just, but when you begin to have average students opting to get GED's because they simply aren't math people the choices will be clear-either dumb down the higher level math classes or accept the fact that your schools AYP is going to sink like a stone. And let's not forget, AYP is what determines if a school is functioning. Add to that the mix of severely disabled students being pushed into mainstream classrooms and taking the regular tests, numerous students who can't read word problems for any of a number of reasons from stark illiteracy to lack of English and you have a situation where there will be at some point a great educational divide. You can apply this same situation to science, to English or to Social Studies, but the endgame is that the only thing that matters is the test. Right now, I see kids in my class that are in AP classes, but who have problems reading and responding to a critical article in art. They are being taught to respond to stimulus, but not to take the next step and reason. This is why just testing or just counting kids who take AP tests or any simplistic fix should not be the sole criteria upon which schools are judged.<BR/><BR/>And BTW, if we could get HALF the kids who attend football games and hang out under the stands to show up for voluntary tutoring before or after school, we would be a totally different society. But we can't combat the institutional support for athletics over sports. The Greeks valued athletics too, but the knew that education created a balanced citizen. We simply think athletes are favored citizens.Ellen Khttps://www.blogger.com/profile/02845981491726296767noreply@blogger.comtag:blogger.com,1999:blog-10348701.post-52139576298824640952008-05-15T08:35:00.000-07:002008-05-15T08:35:00.000-07:00I'm sure EllenK will have something to say about f...I'm sure EllenK will have something to say about football :-)Darrenhttps://www.blogger.com/profile/15730642770935985796noreply@blogger.comtag:blogger.com,1999:blog-10348701.post-10678400837171609942008-05-15T04:54:00.000-07:002008-05-15T04:54:00.000-07:00Doesn't this come up perennially? I can remember s...Doesn't this come up perennially? I can remember stories about the large percentage of freshman class budgets allocated to remedial classes several years ago.<BR/><BR/>> How do we explain this? Are teachers watering down course standards?<BR/><BR/>I think it's an example of a theme I've been pounding on for some time: that education is of tangential or incidental importance institutionally in the public school system.<BR/><BR/>Education may, or may not, be important to a teacher but it's largely immaterial to the school. The teacher's pride may impel them to insist that students learn (that's a "tough" teacher) but the school doesn't insist that the teacher teach. There's nothing in the public education system that necessitates a feedback loop that determines whether the teacher is teaching in the sense that there is a feedback loop in, say, the school's sports teams. Nobody knows what the school's education standing is but everyone knows what the football team's win/loss record is.<BR/><BR/>If nobody gave a damn what that football team's win/loss record was then over time what would happen? Would the team get better or worse? Would the performance bar be set higher or drift downward? <BR/><BR/>I think it's pretty tough to argue that the football team would get better if the outcome of games wasn't tallied and made public. Why should it be different for education and the school as a whole?Anonymousnoreply@blogger.comtag:blogger.com,1999:blog-10348701.post-87002516946411499472008-05-14T22:31:00.000-07:002008-05-14T22:31:00.000-07:00At Davis I've seen a mixture of grade inflation an...At Davis I've seen a mixture of grade inflation and people not taking the tests seriously causing people to have to take lower math courses. The main thing to look at though is most people don't view this as a bad thing, unless your in the bottom most math class you still get units and a grade to help boost your GPA, so only in the truly remedial classes do people lose on the deal. I think a lot of people who are in those classes didn't review for the placement tests or just wanted a refresher before their grade depended on them knowing anything. So a lower math class can either help you by boosting your grade, or help you prepare to do better when the grade actually counts. The most interesting part though is that higher math classes can have placement tests waived by AP tests meaning the person might actually have very little understanding of anything under Calculus and still be able to continue on, meaning they struggle whenever they hit something from pre-calc.Unknownhttps://www.blogger.com/profile/03656997291136912131noreply@blogger.com | <urn:uuid:0251482d-8eb7-442d-a1b2-6348a957a018> | https://rightontheleftcoast.blogspot.com/feeds/6105657943661833367/comments/default | mlfoundations/dclm-baseline-1.0-parquet | Archive for May, 2012 The Importance of Jury Selection In a drunk driving or operating while intoxicated (OWI) Trial Tuesday, May 22nd, 2012 The selection of the jurors who will consider the evidence and vote on the defendant’s guilt in a Michigan drunk driving or drugged driving case is a critical component of an effective DUI trial strategy. An OUIL jury will be told more than once by the judge that they are to base a verdict only on the evidence presented in court during the trial. For example, jurors are typically instructed not to research any issue in the trial on the web, and not to visit the scene of the offense. Yet many Michigan citizens who are summoned for jury duty walk into the courtroom with a clear bias against a defendant who is charged with driving while intoxicated or impaired by alcohol or drugs. Potential jurors are repeatedly exposed to messages that not only warn of the dangers of driving drunk, but also demonize drinking any amount of alcohol and then getting behind the wheel, such as: “you drink, you drive, you lose”; “stay alive, don’t drink and drive”; “drink and drive in Michigan and our officers will show you some new bars”. These and other similar slogans have become generally accepted as basic truths, and they typically have broad support among the people who will ultimately decide whether a defendant goes to jail or loses their driving license. In recognition of this fact, jury selection in a DWI trial may be viewed more realistically as an opportunity to dismiss the people who are obviously biased and to discover which remaining potential jurors would be least open to give the accused a fair trial. Experienced defense attorneys remind the potential jurors that criminal defendants, even in alcohol and drug cases, are entitled to begin their court trial with the presumption of innocence. Both the Michigan and the Federal Constitution require that presumption of innocence (for whatever value that may, or may not, have to potential jurors.) Before the individual potential jurors are questioned in the jury box by the court and the defense lawyers, they are administered an oath by the court swearing or affirming they will answer the questions posed to them in the selection process truthfully. Jurors can be challenged for cause, which is generally interpreted as bias (I think all drunk drivers should go to jail) or conflict of interest (one of the lawyers is related, or a close friend, to one of the jurors). If cause is established it is grounds for the juror to be dismissed. There is no limit to the number of jurors who can be dismissed on this basis, because a defendant has a right to a fair trial, and one of the basic parts of a fair trial is an impartial jury. Both parties are provided a certain number of jurors they are allowed to dismiss for no reason whatsoever, which are called peremptory challenges. The general rationale regarding juror selection is that the parties in a case are best able to determine what jurors may be subject to a challenge for cause, based on their detailed knowledge of the case. While judges typically ask potential jurors a series of basic questions, not surprisingly the responses will focus on giving judges the “right” answer. Many judges, however, will allow the attorneys to ask additional questions, which can at times delve into personal, intimate and/or embarrassing issues that people naturally avoid whenever possible. A skillful OUIL defense attorney must have the ability to elicit information in such a manner as to establish a rapport and trust which will increase the likelihood of candid answers from people who have already demonstrated an ability to underemphasize their personal viewpoints. Attorney-conducted questioning enables an experienced drunk driving attorney to frame questions based on responses to prior questions and allows observation of the jurors’ reactions to these questions. Through these carefully crafted questions, answers, and observations, defense counsel can more accurately determine whether actual bias exists in the minds of the prospective jurors and exercise both challenges for cause and peremptory challenges in a rational and informed fashion, in consultation with the client. Because determining whether a juror is biased is difficult, the questions asked of prospective jurors must be probing enough to allow the parties’ attorneys to make meaningful decisions regarding challenges for cause and peremptory challenges. In an OWI case, few people are ambivalent about drunk driving but many people are reluctant to publicly reveal their true positions. Juror self-assessment of bias is inherently untrustworthy, and the questions from the attorneys are often necessary to reveal bias that is not initially apparent. Questions may be phrased in terms that encompass others besides the jurors themselves- for example, “have you, a family member or a close friend ever….” This can be important because people are often influenced by family or friends who have experienced difficulties they have not. Inquiry should be made as to whether or not jurors personally know the judge, court personnel, police officers or other witnesses involved, as well as the attorneys trying the case and even other attorneys in the office of the Prosecuting Attorney. People who are or know police or corrections officers will often be conservative and law-abiding and have disdain for others who break the rules (laws). Also, many in law enforcement have a “them versus us” point of view, which can cause them to view events with rigidity and in black-and-white terms. If the potential issue is the adequacy of an investigation by a police officer, such a juror can be extremely close-minded and unwilling to consider the defense perspective. It is not uncommon for criminal defense attorneys in Michigan to see a “holier than thou” attitude from police officers. Additionally, many jurors view law enforcement, state troopers, police officers and deputy sheriffs as inherently more believable than a “civilian” witness, and they find the cross-examination of defense counsel, especially if conducted in an aggressive manner, to be offensive. This bias remains even after the jury is instructed by the judge to look at the testimony from police officers exactly as they look at testimony from all other witnesses. Nearly everyone has an operator’s license and drives a vehicle, while the majority of persons drink alcohol of some type at least occasionally. It is a good idea to know who doesn’t drive, and if so, why not, and it is essential to make a determination as to who does not drink alcohol so that follow-up questions can be asked. Some families have members who are substance abusers that have caused themselves or a relative great pain and hardship, and such people are quite set against any alcohol consumption. Many people know someone who has been a victim of a crime, even if they have not personally. In these circumstances, the Michigan criminal justice system can be seen as either friend or foe- that is, as being helpful in obtaining redress and seeing justice done, or as letting the guilty go free on a perceived “technicality.” Many people have been involved in vehicular accidents, some involving intoxicated drivers. It is not unusual for a number of potential jurors to either have family members or a close friend who was seriously injured, or even killed, in an accident involving a drunk driver. It would be completely understandable for such a person to be bitter or angry about such misfortune, and to want to see “justice” done by punishing the defendant, who is alleged to be a drunk driver. While most jurors would prefer to hear a defendant’s version of events, many of them are, surprisingly, willing to acknowledge the Constitutional right to remain silent. These jurors will accept the fact that this information will not become part of the evidence at trial, in part due to notions of fairness, as between a government with seemingly infinite resources and a defendant with limited resources. Despite all of the talk about a fair trial, experienced criminal defense lawyers know that the playing field is almost never level. Jurors should be questioned as to their feelings and beliefs about all important issues in the defense that is being presented, such as the conduct of “sobriety” tasks routinely administered on the roadside and the reliability and protocol of breath or blood chemical tests the prosecutor will seek to introduce. Will guilt be established to a juror’s satisfaction if a chemical test result over the legal limit is introduced, without more? Can a particular juror be made to understand the many possible errors that can exist with the chemical or breath testing of a defendant? Or is the juror too close minded to even take a meaningful look at the flaws in the testing? Most importantly, is the potential juror willing and able to keep an open mind throughout the presentation of all the evidence? The prosecutor, who has only the burden of proof, in every criminal trial in Michigan, presents evidence first. The initial information provided to the jury is about the defendant on the date of arrest and will include his or her alleged improper driving, speech difficulty, poor balance and inability to follow simple instructions from the arresting officer,. Testimony will also usually include chemical test results said to be above the legal limit of 0.08 grams or more per 100 milliliters of blood, per 210 liters of breath, or per 67 milliliters of urine. Will each juror listen to any evidence of improper driving, for example, without concluding such operation is necessarily due to alcohol consumption? Has that juror ever driven poorly themselves (most likely) and, if so, was it due to intoxication or poor judgment (often the latter) or simply being distracted? Poor performance of “sobriety” tasks will be argued as reliable evidence of impairment, until the jury sees the officer have difficulty performing the tame tasks in the courtroom or they attempt to perform the same task in the jury room. Similarly, is a juror willing to consider deficiencies in any chemical test results that were offered as evidence of intoxication that are derived from a laboratory that may not be properly certified or that are conducted by poorly-trained lab personnel using equipment that may be defective or improperly calibrated? In summary, jury selection in a Michigan OWI case is an important tool for a competent and experienced OWI defense attorney to use to “level the playing field,” discover and minimize biased potential jurors and increase the likelihood of a not guilty verdict at trial. | <urn:uuid:2ce4359c-64bc-41c1-9cbd-1ad4eced1d34> | http://www.michiganouidefense.com/blog/2012/05/ | mlfoundations/dclm-baseline-1.0-parquet | GENERAL TERMS IN COO COLLECTING All we have left is lots of different forms of the country stamps and many altered stamps. In most cases the country was not changed but simply deleted. The earliest deleted country marks known to me can be found on German (i.e. Han Solo Big Head „pink hands“, General Mills ESB 45back, single stem Blister) and British (i.e. Bossk „fat lips“, Palitoy ESB 45back, single stem blister) ESB cards, but we can be sure in most cases no COO marks appeared not before the ROTJ area. Especially these deleted country stamps were named over the years and although I think these names are sometimes not so well chosen but they became standard terms in vintage collection. In general the coo is described as it appears on the figures and not how it appears in the „steel-mould“ (the negative). That’s a problem in my own opinion, because the naming sometimes describes the way how it was altered and therefor you should describe like the mould would look, i.e. the so called „melted down“ coo is in reality a „filled up“ coo. The term „melted down“ indicates that the coo on the legs was melted down on every figure which is for sure not the case. Anyway I will give a little inside in the forms, terms and the way these where altered eventually: Melted down COO It normally describes that the country is kind of still visible but mostly looks like melted. The term is also used for smooth deleted coos what is a problem to decide which is which. To me the melted down ones always have a little “rampart“ and some letters can be still slightly visible. In this case the coo was scratched out in the mould and was smoothed. Scarred out COO It normally means that the figure has a deep scare where the country name formally was. The Scars look like someone had removed the COO with kind of a soldering iron. In fact the the COO was actually filled up with kind of lead-tin mixture in this area of the mould. These fill-ups are normally roughly made and have air bubbles which appear as dots on the figures. I’ll have to add some points to the so called „scarred out coo“. This is the only one which is roughly done and with lots of additional material (Tin-lead mixture?) on top of the former COO. That’s the reason why the look of these can change while producing them in high numbers. The fact is that these „fill-ups“ can change or become damaged, fully or partially because of wear on the moulds. A famous example is the half scarred Snaggletooth. To me it‘s clear that half of the „scar“ broke off while producing full scarred figures. Lots of them where produced and this mistake wasn’t fixed or was changed very late (Perhaps it was simply not noticed in a busy factory). That’s why there are quite a few of them existing. In case of the Lando Bespin scars it is difficult to be sure what happened exactly. There are lots of different scars known, on some scars even single letters can be seen (again?). The fact is the Lando is one of the more common scarred figures and also there was not only one mould to produce him. However, regarding other scarred out figures we can assume that there was 2-4 different scarred out moulds (in most cases 2 different scars are known on Greedo, ATAT Commander, Biker Scout, etc.). But there is a real large number of Lando scars existing. Well, the only way to explain this is that the „fill-ups“ often broke out and in this case often were repaired or the fill-ups were renewed. Its of course just a theory but I think it makes the most sense. There is another curious scarred out COO which I like to mention. The only known scarred out COO where a country mark was stamped on top of the scar is the famous Macao Biker Scout. Not only is this unique in the world of COO’s but even better, PBP altered it again and removed the „Macao“, you can say „scarred out the scar“. So as you can see, COO’s can be changed all the time. As I mentioned before the stamps to me mainly are reference marks for the mold-form the figures has. So I bring in a new term: the „COO -family“. (Like a family tree) In short a coo-family describes all molds that are the same on one character, no matter if they are duplicated exactly or the coo is altered. Ill give an example what can happen to a coo: No matter how these stamps may have changed. All produced figures are molded the same way. If there are some differences this is caused by the particular material used to produce the figure. Some plastics look sloppy and not very defined after cooling some are more defined are sharper looking but the steel-mold the figure came from is the same. So they all belong to the same mold-family. Another aspect from the COO-Family is: Same mould but slightly different COO. Regarding the LXW again there can be two slightly different HK COO’s found. These 2 moulds always travelled together and also were altered together. On this character we have 2 “COO-Families”. Some characters have more, some less. Most families have 2 different coos which travelled together and where altered together. This is really quite a guess, but I assume most „steel-moulds“ were produced as pairs. If a second pair was needed, new „steel-moulds“ were made. Of course the ones that were already in production couldn’t be duplicated without stopping production. This is the reason in my opinion why every new „steel-mould“ made, has a slight different mould. Some of these changes may be modifications, others like slightly different folds in the cloth-mould were simply not intentional. There are a lot of production errors on figures, some terms we use to describe them are: “short shots“, “poor shots“ and “cooling errors“. These just describe a factory error which happened during mass production. Sometimes there is not enough plastic injected into the mould, there can be remnants from the former shot still in the mould (especially in the depths of a COO) or the plastic can be pulled out to early and deform while cooling. So how can we be sure that a COO is no factory error? Well there is a few points that may help: COMMON SENSE. In my opinion there is no reason to just delete a year and leave the copyright and country on the figure. It also makes no sense to delete a copyright on a licensed figure and leave the country on the figure. A real no COO figure has two forms: no country with copyright and year left or no marks at all! Everything else makes no sense and if such figures appear they are nearly all factory errors in my opinion. (I already mentioned the fact that the „fill-ups“ can break out partially and if such failures are not corrected illogical COO’s can exist in large numbers, see the half scarred Snaggletooth) QUANTITY. There are some mythical COO’s that have only appeared once. COO collectors all over the world tried to track these down with no luck in achieving one. After years these examples are still the only known and no second example has been found so we can be pretty sure that these are just production errors. On the other hand there are 2 or 3 COO’s which seem to be legit (no factory error possible because of the form) and they are still one of a kind. I will add these in my guide although I normally wouldn’t do because one example that I didn’t even hold in my hands is for real no proof of legitimacy. I of course will mention this in the guide. You will notice that some COO’s that appeared on the old guide on RS, have been removed. This is because I am pretty sure that they are not legitimate COO variations. And if it wasn’t already complicated enough by now a new problem hits the market. Unfortunately when certain areas of collecting become popular, people soon realise that certain “rare“ COO variations can be sold for a lot of money to unsuspecting collectors. Scammer’s with a little exercise and more experience could perfect this method of altering COO’s and fakes could become a problem in the future, so please be careful. | <urn:uuid:61d7f921-3386-416c-a10d-e986b258276b> | https://www.variantvillain.com/knowledge/coo-terminology/ | HuggingFaceFW/fineweb-edu | How To Decorate Your Kid’s Bedroom? Decorating a kid’s bedroom is a fun and exciting activity. Maybe the child has outgrown the previous furnishings and the room needs a new look. You can even collaborate with your child and find something that they will love. This way you get to bond with them and they get to be involved in the creative process. Wall decals and modern art for kids are a good way of decorating the walls in the bedroom. This is a perfect solution for families who are living in a house for rent. This way they can transform the room without having the need to paint. Children will need an area to study and do their homework once they get older. You will need to create a peaceful area for them to do this. The best thing to do is to create a quiet zone in the bedroom where there aren’t any elaborate decorations. You can have a comfortable chair or a bean bag where they can lounge and think on their own. Also, you need a desk and a chair that they can sit down and do their homework on. You have to think carefully about the furniture you will be putting in the room. It is best if they can be used for a dual purpose. Then they can smoothly transition from one age range to another. This will save quite a lot of money as well. Previously, a quiet zone was discussed. You can also create a nice sleeping area complete with a Miffy night light. Children tend to be messy and you will be seeing a lot of clutter in the room. You can help them become more organised by introducing open shelves. These shelves can hold bins and baskets where you can put games, dolls and other toys. This way they will find it easy to find what they are looking for and cleaning up is made easier. When they are done playing, all they have to do is simply drop the toys in the relevant baskets. The children will also learn how to identify similar objects and the basics of organization by learning to put certain similar items into the same bins. Usually, a child’s room will not be very big. So you need to maximise the space you have already and also make the room look bigger to anyone walking in. For example, you can have the bed against the wall in a small room so that you have more room to play. You have to let the children express their individuality. If they are sharing the bedroom with a sibling, you have to be careful not to make the décor identical with a symmetrically arranged room. They will have different interests so you can get them different artwork to hang and different styles of bedside lamps. You can maintain the consistency by having matching beds and shelves, but the bedding can be of different colours and the shelves can hold the things that they are interested in. | <urn:uuid:04ed000d-5928-411f-b29b-f1a0f1328e90> | http://www.website-copy-writer.com/category/baby-products/ | mlfoundations/dclm-baseline-1.0-parquet | Kentucky: Vegetable Planting Calendar |City||Last Frost Date||First Frost Date| *Based on statistics there is a 10% chance that frost will occur before or after these dates. Watch your local weather for more accurate dates. Kentucky on average has approximately 170 days between the last and first frost. Using the planting schedules below will help you get the most out of your garden. | <urn:uuid:a2058c52-edf7-4a71-80c1-3dcf521e097a> | https://www.ufseeds.com/kentucky-vegetable-planting-calendar.html | HuggingFaceFW/fineweb-edu | The Gamora wiki last edited by leandro_rab on 05/31/15 01:38PM View full history The Zen Whoberi was a population who were wiped out by Badoon. (However in the original storyline they were killed by the Universal Church of Truth.) Gamora was the only one of the Zen Whoberi that survived. Thanos discovered Gamora alive and decided to save and train her as a weapon to use against and kill the Magus. Thanos made sure Gamora was raised with discipline, though he did on occasion show her affection as a father would show his child: such as celebrating the pagan Yule with elements of Christmas. Through rigorous training she would become a highly skilled master of various martial arts from throughout the universe. Even though Gamora was learning and becoming a master martial artist, she still had more to learn. While still a young girl, she went on a trip with Thanos. Though explicitly against Thanos' orders and warning, out of curiosity she decided to venture planet-side, where she fell into an ambush set up by a group of thugs. The attackers used their numerical advantage and were able to defeat her in spite of her great skill. She was severely injured in the fight and gang raped. Near death, her proverbial knight in shining armor arrived in the form of Thanos, who quickly dispatching the assailants. Thanos recovered the apologetic and near death Gamora. After returning to Sanctuary Thanos restored and augmented Gamora. This was achieved via bionic implants and replacement parts of Thanos' own design. These physical and power upgrades made her an equal to Adam Warlock's own physical abilities. She also received specialized training and abilities including resistance to reality distortion as well as an accelerated healing factor, that rivals even Wolverine's. Her purpose was to kill Magus, Adam's evil godlike counterpart. Gamora was created by Jim Starlin and first appeared in Strange Tales #180 (1975). Mayor Story Arcs Meeting Warlock Gamora's Original Appearance. When Gamora grew to adulthood it was time for her to begin the mission she had trained for all her life, to go after Magus and the Universal Church of the Truth. Her abilities and skill made her a dreaded assassin. She was able to get close to Magus but failed in her assassination attempt. This failure forced Thanos to take a more direct role in the affair. Thus he teleported to her location and joined forces with Warlock and Pip. The Magus however had other plans and ordered 25,000 of his Black Knights to attack Warlock and any companions. This forced the allies to fight through the attack and ultimately escape the churchs home-world via Thanos teleporting them all aboard sanctuary. Even though this assassination attempt failed in due course the Magus was defeated. Soon after Thanos sent Gamora on a new mission, to befriend and keep tabs on Adam, in an attempt to prevent her from learning of his true nature and ambitions. However before she could truly start her mission the space craft she was piloting came under attack from Drax the Destroyer, whose sole purpose in life was to destroy Thanos. Drax had targeted Gamora's ship due to her relationship to Thanos and destroyed the ship. As Gamora lay dying, her ally Adam Warlock was able to take her soul into his Soul Gem. It was after this that Gamora eventually discovered that Thanos was obsessed with Death and planned to commit stellar genocide and quit serving her master and adopted father. Soulworld existed inside the Soul Gem. This was where Gamora, Pip and (eventually) Adam Warlock existed in peace. Years later, when Thanos returns from the dead, Soul World is visited by the Silver Surfer and Drax the Destroyer, who are there seeking aide from Adam Warlock, who with the aid of Master Order and Lord Chaos was able to defeat Thanos before. Finally Adam Warlock determined that Thanos must not be permitted to continue to grow in power. Warlock guided his allies Gamora and Pip the Troll out of their peaceful Soulworld to the real world. When they entered the real world they needed bodies to exist in so their souls took over the bodies of three people that had died in a car accident, leading into the events of The Infinity Gauntlet. Infinity Gauntlets Gamora with the Infinity Watch At the end of the Infinity Gauntlet ordeal, Adam Warlock was in possession of all six infinity gems but by order of the Living Tribunal was unable to use them together, so Warlock gave all but the soul gem away to guardians he trusted and called this group the Infinity Watch. Gamora was brought on board as guardian of the Time Gem; a power that Gamora didn't really want and had no idea what to do with; though almost as soon as the gem was on her brow she experienced a premonition of Warlock being killed by an unfamiliar figure who would later be revealed to be future Infinity Watch member Maxam. Gamora's strength and skill would start to be truly recognized during her time with the Watch. Most notably after her decimating a UN assault battalion in 8 minutes. The UN in turn upgraded her strength threat level in their database from Spider-Man to Iron Man level. During her time with the Infinity Watch, Gamora also began to have romantic feelings for Adam, though she still could not seem to find the courage or the time to reveal them to Adam, largely stemming from the daily adventures and shenanigans affiliated with being a member of the Watch. The Infinity War saw the return of Magus, this time in possession of even greater power in the form of five cosmic containment units, communally called Cosmic Cubes. Gamora with Warlock and the rest of the Watch found themselves once again in an alliance, formed from necessity, with the villainous Thanos. The allies soon were investigating an energy beacon. However unbeknownst to them, the Magus had placed it to distract and force a confrontation between the various forces that sought to thwart his goals. Forces such as the Avengers, Hulk, Quasar, the X-Men and Alpha Flight united. Soon a full blown confrontation broke out among the two factions. Gamora faced off against multiple Earth heroes, even incapacitating several, utilizing her superior fighting skills and training. Heroes such as the Invisible Woman, She Hulk, Rogue, Cyclops, Vindicator, Strong Guy and Wolverine. She was eventually overcome by stealth and numbers that resulted in her being knocked out. Ultimately the battle was halted by the arrival and intervention of Galactus. He would later take control of Gamora in order to assist him in reviving a catatonic Eternity. That would be her last significant act in the Arc. After the Infinity War, Warlock was left in a catatonic state and Gamora's true feelings emerged. She stayed by his side the entire time, often taking charge of the team that could evaporate at any moment without a leader. At first Adam did not feel the same way but after some time Adam began to feel the same. Infinity Crusade During "The Infinity Crusade," Gamora was chosen as one of the Goddess' highest ranking servants as a member of the Holy Guard. Goddess used her own personal beliefs and telepathy to control Gamora to help her create a group consciousness across the universe and rid it of evil. When the battle with Earth's heroes on Paradise Omega, Gamora proved that she was more than enough for some of Earth's mightiest heroes able to take out Rage, Night Thrasher as well as the Thing. She was stabbed in the stomach by Wolverine during a pause in the battle, but her healing factor eventually revived and healed her. The control over Gamora was eventually released and the Goddess was defeated. The Infinity Watch also found themselves at odds with an insane Thor in the Blood and Thunder arc. After Thor gained the Power Gem the Watch and their allies, Dr Strange and the Silver Surfer, confronted Thor and the now materialized Valkyrie. Being backed by the limitless power of the gem Thor defeated Maxam, Strange, Warlock, Drax, and the Surfer with ease, leaving Moondragon to face Valkryie and Gamora to face the bloodlusted Thor. Despite Thor's overwhelming power advantage Gamora's skill prevented him from even landing a blow. It looked as though they might actually beat the odds, until Valkryie gained the advantage over Moondragon and threw her at the unsuspecting Gamora, who was still battling the Thunder God. With both opponents temporarily downed, Thor wasted no time using Mjolnir to bring down a structure burying the collective allies under the rubble. Pip arrived and in a panic driven whim, teleported Thor, Valkyrie and himself to the one person he could think of that might be able to stop the insane raging god of thunder - a risky gamble that payed off. After a violent confrontation between Thor and Thanos, Thanos grew weary of the ordeal and immobilized Thor via a rifle of his own design, that encased Thor within a block of pure force. After being joined by the other allies they collectively failed to cure Thor of his malady, though they did succeed in ending Valkyrie's physical manifestation. The allies soon decided the best course of action was to bring Thor to his father to cure. However Lord Odin misinterpreted their intent. Odin called for every able bodied warrior to stop the trespassers, thus Gamora found herself in battle against the Asgardians on Bifrost. Once again her formidable skills were put to the test. She was fighting very effectively until she knocked out Volstagg who fell on top of Moondragon, incapacitating her. Gamora now distracted and distraught, Hogun was able to deliver a blow from his mace to the back of her head knocking her out. Once Odin became involved in the fight, Gamora and the others retreated at least one kilometer while Thanos and Surfer engaged Odin in direct combat. Count Abyss Her true feelings for Adam began to show further when Maya came to the island and her and Adam fell in love because of Count Abyss' love potion. She believed the best answer was to simply kill Maya. Eventually she accepted it for what it was and went to help rescue her from Abyss in his dimension. Things would quickly get out of hand for Gamora again. This time due to Maxam making what he thought was a harmless tease about Gamora's feelings towards Adam and referring to it as puppy love. Due to her still being unable to express herself to Adam and her unease and concerns about Maxam, due to the visions from her gem, Gamora attacked Maxam. The two had fought before but this time Gamora was aware of her opponent. The fight favored Gamora to triumph until it was broken up when Moondragon, who was currently in a coma, used Drax and his power gem to communicate. Adam was displeased with Gamora's actions and told her so. This in turn angered and caused Gamora to verbally lash out, as it was not her mistrust of Maxam directly concerning Adams own well-being. Unable to accept Adam siding with Maxam over her, she quit the team and threw her gem at Adam when he asked for it back, which Warlock in turn gave to Maxam. She then had Pip teleport her away from Monster Island and Earth. She would come back to the team in the end just before the gems all vanished and the team dissolved. After the Watch Enter the Infinity Abyss saga. Gamora stopped on Baligeist, your typical space port, for a little well deserved rest relaxation. While deciding where to begin she overhears, thanks to her enhanced senses, what appears to be two locals having a conversation. She finds the subject matter quite concerning. For one of the locals who, unbeknownst to Gamora, interestingly enough resembles Thanos in a cheap disguise, mentions that Thanos himself would be giving a speech later at the local Nietzsche Arena. Gamora having long heard rumors of Thanos' death and thought it to be true, goes to investigate. Gamora was attempting to discern if the being on the stage claiming to be Thanos was in fact he when he, Armour, spots her in the crowd. He orders the crowd, filled with several thousand nihilists from the real Thanos' long abandoned cult, to attack and destroy her. Unconcerned and with ease Gamora dodges blasts from Armour from the stage and defeats waves of the cultists on the ground. Her concern mounts and she is forced to flee when Armour taps the stadiums power grid and launches the amplified blast directly in to the horde of attackers aimed directly at her. While the cultists embrace their deaths Gamora uses the chaos to make her way to a spacecraft and get away from the now hostile space port. Still uncertain on what to make of the events on Baligeist, Gamora set course for an unnamed planet she knew where Thanos' had a base of operations. Upon arrival she discovered a Skrull spacecraft and the base's defenses expertly downed. She soon found herself face to face with the real Thanos, who was still recovering from being attacked by an artificially created singularity (black hole). Thanos explained the threat of his clones and the danger they presented towards reality, convincing Gamora to ally herself with him once again to end the threat. Her first task was to lure Armour to his death at the hands of Thanos. Her last significant act in the arc would be stabbing the unsuspecting Thanosi known as X in the back, providing the window needed to ensure his defeat. Later, during the "Infinity Abyss" story, Gamora and Adam would raise a cosmic being that was known as Atleza. Champions of the Universe Some time after this, Gamora was present with Adam Warlock and Pip the Troll on a planet that has been taken over by the Champion of the Universe. Warlock was gathering the universe's strongest heroes to combat Champion in the ring with the stipulation if anybody can beat him he will relinquish his rule over this world. Warlock's initial recruits: Beta Ray Bill, Drax the Destroyer, Gladiator, the Silver Surfer and Warlock himself all fail. Next, Warlock sends Pip out to retrieve She-Hulk. Gamora served as personal trainer for the She-Hulk in preparation for her bout with Tyco Slatterus, the Elder of the Universe known as the Champion. She-Hulk lost to the Champion in the fight with him, but was awarded a rematch when she pointed out that Champion, who has regained the Power Gem, was possibly using it as an illegal weapon to boost his strength. While waiting for the rematch, Gamora convinced She-Hulk to train for the fight in her human form rather than as She-Hulk. She had She-Hulk train like this because her human strength is exponentially multiplied when she transforms into the She-Hulk, so she reasoned if she can become stronger in her human form then when she becomes the She-Hulk she have greater strength still. Gamora's insight paid off, as now stronger Jennifer Walters makes She-Hulk stronger than ever before, allowing her to defeat the Champion with relative ease. Gamora and Nova At some as-of-now undisclosed time, Gamora left Adam and Atleza to go off on her own to try to reclaim her title as Deadliest Woman in the Universe. She sets herself up with a new costume and a new weapon, the dagger known as Godslayer, upon a fringe Kree colony as head of "The Graces", a group of super powered female characters, mostly villains, consisting of Nebula, Cerise of the Sh'iar, Tana Nile, Spirit and Stellaris the Celestial Slayer. This is at the start of the first Annihilation war, and Gamora is drawn into conflict with Ronan the Accuser who is trying to track down one of her graces, Tana Nile, who had testified against him in court on false charges that had left him disgraced. Gamora and Ronan battled to a standstill and eventually joined forces against the Annihilation Wave, and both joined Nova's United Front. During her time fighting alongside the United Front, Gamora strikes up a romantic relationship with Nova. When/why/how she fell out with Warlock before that remains to be shown. Between Annihilation Wars, Nova apparently broke off his relationship with Gamora, but this is also "off panel". During the second Annihilation War, Gamora is taken over by the Phalanx and is turned into one of their Select. As a select, Gamora is critical in apprehending and infecting Nova and Drax the Destroyer. Nova manages to free himself from Phalanx control, only to immediately be pursued by select Gamora and Drax. They follow Nova to the current home world of the Phalanx' parent species the Technarx, where Warlock (former New Mutants member Warlock, not Adam Warlock) manages to free Gamora and Drax from phalanx control. After the second Annihilation war, Gamora joins Peter Quill/ Starlord's new incarnation of the Guardians of the Galaxy. Guardians of the Galaxy Into the Flames Having no purpose and wanting to do things for the greater good, Gamora joins the team. At first she is not trusted because of her past, but after risking her life to save the others, she is seen in a different light. While trying to close a fissure located inside a Dyson Sphere (an artificial device that encloses a star and uses it for power), the team decides to stop threats to them by turning off the shield that protects them from the star's immense heat. They plan to teleport out, but are unable to do so. Gamora braves the intense heat in order to turn the shields back on, charring her entire body from head to toe. It took some time for Gamora to heal from this. After the Skrulls are found on Knowhere, the team's base, accusations run high, especially towards Gamora. After they find the Skrulls, it is revealed to all that Starlord had Mantis mildly brainwash them into joining the team. Disgusted, Gamora quits the team and heads off with Adam Warlock. Gamora Is Not Happy with the Church of Truth After a short run in with the Universal Church of Truth, Gamora and Adam return to the Guardians in order to help them continue to save the universe. During the War of Kings, the Inhuman King Black Bolt unleashes the Terrigen Bomb, which creates a massive rip in space-time known as the Fault. Warlock is able to stop the tear from expanding, but in doing so he had to overlap the timestream, causing himself to turn into the Magus. Gamora, along with many other Guardians, is killed by the Magus before finally being stopped by Starlord and a Cosmic Cube. But this was a trick and the Magus only faked her death, taking Gamora's soul and remaking her with the Church of Truth's belief energy. As a captive of the Magus, she as subject to the torture of their 'interrogators' in an effort to convert her to the Church's beliefs. For a time, it is believed she was turned to their faith but when the other team members broke free of their captors, she fought alongside them. Needless to say, she was not pleased with her time as a prisoner. Marvel NOW Gamora's new look Gamora and the Guardians of the Galaxy successfully attack a Badoon battle ship and find out the Badoon have invaded the Earth. With the help of Tony Stark, the group successfully defends the planet, but they are soon interrupted by Spartax soldiers where the Spartax end up arresting the group for coming to the Earth, as the planet is supposed to be off limits. With the Guardians now prisoners of war, they are taken to Planet Spartax where they are held in stasis, awaiting their trial. Groot saves them and Gamora and the group successful defeat the guards, allowing them to leave the planet. Gamora and the Guardians head to a space bar, and Gamora hooks up with Tony Stark, but it ends up being a flop. While off on her own to head back to the bar, Gamora is attacked. The assailant is revealed to be Maxilin the Accuser, a bounty hunter. Gamora and Maxilin trade blows and weaponry. Gamora ends up at the mercy of the bounty hunter, but Rocket Raccoon blasts a hole in his chest from behind, saving Gamora. With Gamora recovered, the team leaves. Gamora is one of the few remaining Guardians on the ship due to Peter and Drax heading out on their own. With it only being her, Tony, Rocket, and Groot, they find out Angela is detected to be heading towards the Earth and the Guardians pursue her, and discover that no info on Angela exists. Despite not knowing who or what Angela is, Gamora engages her in battle, but she ends up at the angel's mercy as Angela prepares the final strike. Gamora is saved by Rocket, Groot, and Stark from Angela. Angela fights the entire team by herself, including the now returned Drax, and it looks as if she is winning until Peter joins in and takes Angela out with an attack from behind. The Watcher appears after the fight to tell the Guardians that the woman's name is Angela, and that her presence is a major concern. Gamora and the rest of the Guardians talk with Angela to learn more about the mysterious woman. Original Sin Following the death of the Watcher, Gamora is later selected alongside Black Panther, the Winter Soldier, the Punisher, Doctor Strange, Ant-Man, and Emma Frost by a mysterious benefactor, who turns out to be Nick Fury. Fury reveals that he is dying, and wishes to have one of the heroes take his place as the "man on the wall" who secretly defends Earth from extraterrestrial threats. Gamora and the others battle Fury's LMDs and later leave. Around this time, Gamora learns the fate of Nova who is revealed to have sacrificed his life to save Star-Lord and the others from the Cancerverse. He had asked Star-Lord not to tell Gamora, as he was in love with her and didn't want to burden her with this knowledge. Powers and Abilities The Deadliest Woman In The Universe. Gamora’s martial artist skills are considered to be among the highest in the Marvel Universe as she has mastered 83.4% of most known armed and unarmed techniques from various warfaring cultures. Her fighting skills are so advanced she can defeat opponents who are physically far superior to her. Her skill gives her the ability to outfight others who would be considered more powerful and/or stronger than her. She has engaged and fought to a stand-still the likes of the Thing, She-Hulk, Rage and even Thanos - all of whom are vastly stronger and more durable than she is. She also defeated a whole platoon of highly trained military personal in a short time. She has the ability to paralyze or kill opponents by striking vital nerve cluster points on their bodies. Her preferred weapons are swords and knives. Her favorite being Godslayer. Thanos augmented her to be the physical equal of Adam Warlock. Gamora has highly enhanced speed, reflexes, agility, senses, stamina/endurance, durability and healing factor. She possesses super strength comparable to Ironman. As well as a precognitive tracking instinct. She has demonstrated the ability to survive in the vacuum of space un aided. Though if she can do this indefinitely is undetermined. Through specialized training also provided by Thanos she has resistance to an unknown extent against reality distortion and telepathic assaults. Most of Gamora's skeleton has been replaced with an unnamed, nearly unbreakable substance by Thanos. Physical Characteristics Height: 6' Weight: 170 lbs Hair: Black Eyes: Yellow Alternate realities Possible Future In Nova Annual #1, Nova is shown visions of both his past and possible future by the Transmode Virus as an attempt to weaken his resolve. In his possible future, Nova has rebuilt the Nova Corps to combat the Phalanx invasion, and one of the Centurions is Gamora. Other Media Planet Hulk (2010) Planet Hulk Gamora has a brief cameo in Planet Hulk. Guardians of the Galaxy (2014) Zoe Saldana portrays Gamora in Guardians of the Galaxy. In the film, Gamora is the adopted daughter of Thanos who betrays him after having a crisis of conscience. She is arrested after attempting to steal a rare orb (which unbeknownst to the heroes, contains an Infinity Stone) from Peter Quill, but escapes along with Quill and several other inmates. The fugitives band together to keep the stone from Ronan the Accuser, and Gamora begins to fall in love with Peter. After defeating Ronan, the heroes choose to stay together as a band of galactic heroes. Silver Surfer (1998) Animated Gamora Gamora first appears in the 1998 Silver Surfer animated series in the episode "Learning Curve: Part 2." Gamora is shown to be the leader of the Wanderers, whose purpose is to destroy Galactus and his herald the Silver Surfer for destroying their worlds. Gamora was voiced by Alison Sealy-Smith, who also voiced Storm on the X-Men cartoons. Ultimate Spider-Man (2013) Ultimate Spider-Man Gamora appears as a member of the Guardian of the Galaxy along with Starlord, Drax, Groot y Rocket Rackoon. Rocket goes back to earth to ask Nova to rejoin the guardians to confront Michael Korvac and his Chintauri. She is voiced by Nika Futterman. Avengers Assemble (2014) Gamora appears in the episode "Guardians and Space Knights", with Nika Futterman reprising her role from Ultimate Spider-Man. War of Heroes Marvel: War of Heroes Gamora apperas in several cards in the mobile game: War of Heroes. Her cards ard: • [Galactic Swordswoman] Gamora • [Thanos's Assassin] Gamora • [Tracker] Gamora • [Green Assassin] Gamora • [Loner] Gamora • [Galaxy's Deadliest] Gamora • [Most Dangerous] Gamora Lego Marvel Super Heroes Gamora is a playable character in this game. she is voiced by Danielle Nicolet. Marvel Heroes Marvel Heroes Gamora appears in the game as a Team-Up character. She sports her appearance from the Marvel NOW! relaunch. Disney Infinity 2.0: Marvel Super Heroes Gamora in Disney Infinity Gamora appears as a playable character in the game, sporting her appearance from the live-action Guardians of the Galaxy movie. She is voiced by Nika Futterman, who reprises her role from the Ultimate Spider-Man TV series. Marvel Super Hero Squad Online Her Description says: She's been called 'the most dangerous woman in the universe'... and we believe it! Marvel: Avengers Alliance Marvel: Avengers Alliance Gamora is a playable character in the game. She was released in her comic costume and the movie version. Her bio says: Deadliest Woman in the Galaxy". A heavy title to live up to, yet Gamora has earned it. Bionically and genetically augmented by Thanos himself, Gamora is possibly the greatest assassin the galaxy has ever known. Haven broken away from Thanos' control, she is now an essential member of the Guardians of the Galaxy. Marvel: Contest of Champions Marvel Constest of Champions Gamora is a playable character in the mobile fighting game. She is a Cosmic Class character. Marvel Puzzle Quest Marvel Puzzle Quest Gamora is a playable character in the game. This edit will also create new pages on Comic Vine for: Comment and Save | <urn:uuid:06160b4d-dbc8-41d5-afb3-4c4ae164fa6c> | http://www.comicvine.com/gamora/4005-6806/ | mlfoundations/dclm-baseline-1.0-parquet | Archive for February, 2010 Understanding Basic Charting Technique For a bar chart, the most expensive together with the least expensive prices within a given period (minutes, hours, days, weeks, or months) can be connected with a vertical bar. The opening price is normally displayed by a tick mark at the left side; the ending price is symbolized through the tick mark at the right side. The bottom and the upper side of the vertical bar represent the cheapest along with maximum prices associated with the time period, respectively. T Why Chart Patterns Are So Important to the Short-Term Trader? ach year many turn to the equity markets with dreams of taking enormous profits using trading techniques like day trading, swing trading or scalp trading. Sadly , these techniques of trading need ability levels that can’t be got overnight. | <urn:uuid:ec9f0af4-4736-4189-8f53-2b4df92310d1> | http://patterndaytrading.org/2010/02 | mlfoundations/dclm-baseline-1.0-parquet | Anyone up for some health-related odds and ends (and whoa, some of them are quite odd) that happened around the world this week? Check out these beauties... * Oh, great: listening to someone's sarcastic remarks may make you better able to solve creative problems. Apparently, understanding sarcasm requires us to think with more complexity; once that part of our brain is engaged, we're more apt to be creative thinkers. * Colin Firth--of Bridget Jones and The King's Speech fame (any other favorites?)--is credited as a co-author on a professional research paper about the human brain. The findings of the paper revealed that "Liberal and Conservative [political] attitudes were associated with thicker areas of parts of the brain." * Kranium has invented an all-cardboard bike helmet that absorbs more than four times the amount of impact energy than a regular plastic helmet. * Okay, how flexible are you? You can probably touch your toes, do some yoga poses, right? Imagine being bendy enough that you could fold yourself into a small suitcase at the airport in order to steal valuables from travelers' checked bags, like this guy! * This isn't "weird" so much as it is "whoa," but... a block in East Harlem has become the first smoke-free block in New York, in an effort to do away with secondhand smoke. If residents want to light up, they have to do so 15 feet from their buildings (which basically puts them in the street!). * Would you ever try cicada ice cream? Exactly what it sounds like: ice cream made out of the boiled parts of cicadas (that are later dipped in brown sugar and chocolate). Apparently, people in Columbia, Missouri can't get enough of the stuff. * And, just because ending this post on a note about insect ice cream leaves a bad taste in my mouth (heh), have a look at the world's first amphibious ice cream truck. It'll float icy treats to you if you're in a boat or drive them up to you if you're on the street. Because you never know when--or where--you'll need a popsicle. Are you a sarcastic person? Have you ever eaten bugs? Do you now love Colin Firth for his brain? Share some of your own weird news! More on weird health news and research: * Can Guzzling Cup After Cup of Coffee Make You Hear Things That Aren't There? * Does Watching Someone Else Scratch Make You Itch? * Do You Try Supermarket Samples? Here's A Nasty Story That'll Make You Think Twice About It More Ways to Get Glamour Visit for cute stuff starting at just $10! Enter the latest Glamour sweepstakes! Follow us on Twitter Add us to your iGoogle homepage Photo: Thinkstock | <urn:uuid:19c5545d-2aa7-4c8e-9e6a-a4d334648d50> | http://www.glamour.com/health-fitness/blogs/vitamin-g/2011/06/the-weeks-weirdest-health-news-5.html | mlfoundations/dclm-baseline-1.0-parquet | Take the 2-minute tour × In Revelation 20:14 (ESV) we read: The concept of "fire" is used multiple times in the New Testament to refer to a place of final judgment. To list just a few of them: Matt 5:22 But I say to you that everyone who is angry with his brother will be liable to judgment; whoever insults his brother will be liable to the council; and whoever says, "You fool!" will be liable to the hell of fire. Matt 13:40 Just as the weeds are gathered and burned with fire, so will it be at the close of the age. Matt 25:41 Then he will say to those on his left, "Depart from me, you cursed, into the eternal fire prepared for the devil and his angels." Likewise, the term Hades (other translations use the word Hell) is a word that is also used multiple times in the NT to refer to a place of judgment and torment. Examples: With those scriptures in mind, the Revelation passage throws me for a loop. What causes confusion, for me, is that I've always considered Hades and the lake of fire to be the same thing. And if Hades and the lake of fire is the same thing, how can Hades be cast into itself? What's more confusing to me is, if the "lake of fire" is a physical place that those who are not written in the "Book of Life" will be sent for all eternity, how is it possible to send Death and Hades to that same place? I suppose my question boils down to: In Revelation 20:14, what is Death, Hades, and the Lake of Fire? share|improve this question I was reading Rev 2o:13-15 this morning as part of my morning fellowship and got kind of confused abit about the difference between death and hades as I thought they were one and the same thing?. My earlier thinking was that once one is dead, than you go to "sleep" in your grave which was to me was hades until the time of resurrection when we will all be Judged according to our deeds in life. But the verse in 13 which says, " The sea gave up the dead who were in it, and Death and Hades delivered up the dead who were in them. So thinking about this verse I begin to think that there are three… – user2236 May 6 '13 at 0:48 …places the dead people are going to be delivered, (1) from the sea, (2) from Death and (30) from Hades as per verse 13. By the grace of GOD I desire to understand this verse thoroughly. Can anyone please enlighten me. Lydia – user2236 May 6 '13 at 0:48 be sure to check out Why is Hadēs translated as “hell”? – Daи May 20 at 2:51 4 Answers 4 up vote 12 down vote accepted "Hades" is the Greek word for the realm of the dead. In the Greek Septuagint, it replaces the Hebrew word "Sheol". There's not a lot of description of Hades within the main canon - chiefly the parable in Luke 16 - but generally it is considered the holding place for the souls of the dead until the final judgement. It is sometimes thought to be divided into "compartments" of sorts: e.g. a place of torment and a place of comfort (the bosom of Abraham). This is somewhat apparent in Luke 16 and 2 Peter 2:4 mentions the angels bound in Tartarus: the Greek name for the place of torment. You'll see in Revelation that Hades is always accompanied by Death (esp. see Revelation 6:8 where they are together personified). Death is thought to claim the material portion of a person and Hades the immaterial portion. It's not clear that the Lake of Fire is a place per se; but what is clear is that it represents destruction. Whatever it is, the Lake of Fire supercedes Hades. Once Hades gives up its dead for the final judgement it is no longer needed and is sent to destruction along with those whose names were not in the book of life. Keep in mind that earlier Death and Hades were personified, so it makes sense in the apocolyptic setting that they could be sent to the same "place" as other persons. share|improve this answer Might there be a sense in which they are equivalent and we might say that the place of destruction is wrapped up into itself—it consumes it self in the sense that it no longer affects anything external to itself; it is sealed? – Kazark May 12 '12 at 19:16 @Kazark - Certainly death is portrayed as a defeated enemy, one who is vanquished. But I'm not so sure how neatly everything is sealed off as you say. Rev. 14:10-11 suggests to me otherwise. I'll have to think about it, though. – Soldarnal May 12 '12 at 20:20 My thoughts on this question: o "Death" is physical death. o "Hades" is the place of the dead (usually used of the wicked dead in the NT). o "Death" and "hades" go together since each one implies the other. o "Death" often occurs in the same verse as "hades" in OT verses (in the Greek Septuagint). o "Death and hades" in Rev 20:14 is a figure of speech for "hades, place of the dead" (hendiadys—see below). o "Lake of fire" is the second destination of the wicked dead (hades is the first). o Poetically speaking, the wicked dead in hades are "under arrest, awaiting trial." o Poetically speaking, the wicked dead in the lake of fire are "guilty as charged, sentence carried out" (after the great white throne judgment, Rev 20:11). o "Death and hades were cast into lake of fire" (Rev 20:14) is a figure of speech for "those in hades, place of the dead, were cast into the lake of fire" (metonymy—see below). Hendiadys is two words linked by "and" when one could modify the other. OT example: "hades and destruction" (Prov 20:7, Greek Septuagint), hendiadys for "hades, place of destruction." Similarly in Rev 20:13, "death and hades" indicates "hades, place of the dead" by hendiadys. Metonymy is calling something not by its own name but instead by the name of something associated with it. A simple example: "the whole town was thrown into jail" instead of "every person in town was thrown into jail." Here "town" is used instead of "persons in the town." Similarly in Rev 20:14 "death and hades were thrown into the lake of fire" indicates "all occupants of hades, place of the dead, were thrown into the lake of fire" by metonymy. share|improve this answer This isn't from Scripture but perhaps like an oubliette it is a place of forgeting. Throw death and hades as a concept into a place where no one thinks of it again. Please note: share|improve this answer The wicked are thrown into the lake of fire (New Testament). In Revelations Death and Hell/Hades are thrown into the lake of fire. The reason why that doesn't seem to make sense is that we have not been taught the truth! The English bible is a translation, and we have been taught that Hell/Hades is a place of eternal punishment in hell-fire---for ever and ever! Wrong!!! Hell/Hades is the same as the Hebrew word Sheol, and simply means the grave! If you read revelations (corrected) it should say death and the grave were thrown into the lake of fire. The lake of fire is symnbolic (only!) of permanently destroying something! Death and the grave will be destroyed in the end, and all the true believers will have eternal life!!! No need for death and hell anymore, since Death and the grave were a punishment for sin! Halleluyah! Ps--You were absolutely correct in saying the verse doesn't make sense (according to what we have been taught in the churches)! You cannot throw Death into a fire, and it certainly would not make sense to throw hell-fire into a fire either!....lol... More proof...People (Europeans) use to refer to "planting their potatoes in hell". They understood hell to mean the ground/earth or when talking about a human body, the grave! share|improve this answer We are looking for well-supported and well-reasoned answers here. This answer is neither. I encourage you to look around the site and see how other answers are written. – Jon Ericson Sep 24 '12 at 6:33 @Jack Douglas - Although you didn't build your answer from scripture with detail I thought it was a good track to research, probably not for this site though - not that I agree with the perimeters of this site. – JLB Feb 1 at 13:35 protected by Community May 21 '13 at 23:22 Would you like to answer one of these unanswered questions instead? | <urn:uuid:741b3d6f-a08e-4800-aac0-e39688c74651> | http://hermeneutics.stackexchange.com/questions/52/what-is-meant-by-death-and-hades-were-thrown-into-the-lake-of-fire | mlfoundations/dclm-baseline-1.0-parquet | %0 Journal Article %J Cold Spring Harbor perspectives in biology %D 2012 %T Signaling mechanisms controlling cell fate and embryonic patterning. %A Perrimon, Norbert %A Pitsouli, Chrysoula %A Shilo, Ben-Zion %K Animals %K Body Patterning %K Cell Differentiation %K Drosophila %K Gene Expression Regulation, Developmental %K Humans %K Models, Biological %K Paracrine Communication %K Receptors, Notch %K Signal Transduction %N 8 %P a005975 %R 10.1101/cshperspect.a005975 %V 4 %X During development, signaling pathways specify cell fates by activating transcriptional programs in response to extracellular signals. Extensive studies in the past 30 years have revealed that surprisingly few pathways exist to regulate developmental programs and that dysregulation of these can lead to human diseases, including cancer. Although these pathways use distinct signaling components and signaling strategies, a number of common themes have emerged regarding their organization and regulation in time and space. Examples from Drosophila, such as Notch, Hedgehog, Wingless/WNT, BMP (bone morphogenetic proteins), EGF (epidermal growth factor), and FGF (fibroblast growth factor) signaling, illustrate their abilities to act either at a short range or over a long distance, and in some instances to generate morphogen gradients that pattern fields of cells in a concentration-dependent manner. They also show how feedback loops and transcriptional cascades are part of the logic of developmental regulation. %8 2012 Aug | <urn:uuid:c9cf258c-8f65-45e8-a54c-27a2eb7bf9a8> | http://ginsim.org/biblio/export/tagged/168 | mlfoundations/dclm-baseline-1.0-parquet | Cambridge IGCSE ™ CHEMISTRY 0620/63 Paper 6 Alternative to Practical May/June 2022 1 hour You must answer on the question paper. No additional materials are needed. INSTRUCTIONS * Answer all questions. * Write your name, centre number and candidate number in the boxes at the top of the page. * Use a black or dark blue pen. You may use an HB pencil for any diagrams or graphs. * Write your answer to each question in the space provided. * Do not write on any bar codes. * Do not use an erasable pen or correction fluid. * You may use a calculator. * You should show all your working and use appropriate units. INFORMATION * The total mark for this paper is 40. * The number of marks for each question or part question is shown in brackets [ ]. 1 The apparatus shown was used to determine the percentage of oxygen in a sample of air. The glass tube was heated strongly at X while the sample of air was passed backwards and forwards over the copper pieces in the tube. The source of heat was gradually moved along the tube from X to Y. During the experiment the copper pieces in the glass tube reacted with oxygen in the sample of air. (a) Name the item of apparatus labelled B. .............................................................................................................................................. [1] (b) Name the item of laboratory equipment that could be used to heat the glass tube strongly. .............................................................................................................................................. [1] (c) The copper pieces at Y did not change colour when they were heated. Suggest why the copper pieces at Y did not change colour. .................................................................................................................................................... .............................................................................................................................................. [1] (d) (i) The table shows the volume of air in each part of the apparatus at the start of the experiment. Calculate the total volume of air in the apparatus at the start of the experiment. total volume of air at start = .............................. cm 3 [1] (ii) The table shows the volume of gas in each part of the apparatus at the end of the experiment. | part of apparatus | volume of gas at end / cm3 | |---|---| | A | 0 | | glass tube | 8 | | B | 75 | Calculate the percentage of oxygen in the sample of air. percentage of oxygen = .............................. [1] [Total: 5] 2 A student investigated the reaction between aqueous sodium hydroxide and two different solutions of dilute hydrochloric acid with different concentrations, labelled Q and R, using two different indicators. Three experiments were done. (a) Experiment 1 * Using a measuring cylinder, 25 cm 3 of aqueous sodium hydroxide was poured into a conical flask. * A burette was filled with dilute hydrochloric acid Q. Some of the dilute hydrochloric acid was run out of the burette so that the level of the dilute hydrochloric acid was on the burette scale. * Five drops of methyl orange indicator were added to the conical flask. * Dilute hydrochloric acid was added slowly from the burette to the conical flask, while the flask was swirled, until the solution just changed colour. * The conical flask was placed on a white tile. Use the burette diagrams to complete the table for Experiment 1. | | Experiment 1 | |---|---| | final burette reading / cm3 | | | initial burette reading / cm3 | | | volume of dilute hydrochloric acid Q added / cm3 | | Experiment 2 * The burette was rinsed with distilled water and then with dilute hydrochloric acid R. * The conical flask was emptied and rinsed with distilled water. * Experiment 1 was repeated using dilute hydrochloric acid R instead of dilute hydrochloric acid Q. Use the burette diagrams to complete the table for Experiment 2. Experiment 3 * Experiment 2 was repeated using thymolphthalein indicator instead of methyl orange indicator. * The conical flask was emptied and rinsed with distilled water. Use the burette diagrams to complete the table for Experiment 3. | final burette reading / cm3 | |---| | initial burette reading / cm3 | | volume of dilute hydrochloric acid R added / cm3 | [5] (b) Determine the simplest whole number ratio of the volumes of dilute hydrochloric acid R used in Experiment 2 and Experiment 3. .............................................................................................................................................. [1] (c) Deduce the volume of dilute hydrochloric acid Q needed when Experiment 1 is repeated using thymolphthalein indicator instead of methyl orange indicator. volume of hydrochloric acidQ = .............................. [2] (d) Compare the concentration of dilute hydrochloric acid Q used in Experiment 1 to the concentration of dilute hydrochloric acid R used in Experiment 2. Explain your answer. .................................................................................................................................................... .................................................................................................................................................... .................................................................................................................................................... .............................................................................................................................................. [3] (e) State how the results change, if at all, if the aqueous sodium hydroxide is warmed before adding the dilute hydrochloric acid. Give a reason for your answer. effect on results ......................................................................................................................... reason ........................................................................................................................................ [2] (f) State the advantage of using a pipette instead of the measuring cylinder in these experiments. .............................................................................................................................................. [1] (g) Explain why a white tile is used in these experiments. .............................................................................................................................................. [1] (h) At the start of Experiment 2 the burette was rinsed with distilled water and then with dilute hydrochloric acid R. (i) State what was removed from the burette when it was rinsed with distilled water. ....................................................................................................................................... [1] (ii) State what was removed from the burette when it was rinsed with dilute hydrochloric acid R. ............................................................................................................................................. ....................................................................................................................................... [1] (iii) Explain why the burette does not need to be rinsed at the start of Experiment 3. ....................................................................................................................................... [1] (i) After the burette was filled with dilute hydrochloric acid at the start of Experiment 1, some of the acid was run out of the burette. One reason for running the acid out of the burette is to make sure the level of the hydrochloric acid is on the scale. Give one other reason why it is important to run some acid out of the burette after it has been filled for the first time in an experiment. .................................................................................................................................................... .............................................................................................................................................. [1] [Total: 19] 3 Solid S and solution Y were analysed. Solid S was anhydrous copper(II) sulfate. Tests were done on each substance. tests on solution Y | tests | observations | |---|---| | test 1 A flame test was carried out on solution Y. | the flame became lilac | | Solution Y was divided into three approximately equal portions in one boiling tube and two test-tubes. test 2 Dilute hydrochloric acid was added to the portion of solution Y in a boiling tube. The mixture was warmed. A strip of filter paper soaked in acidified aqueous VII potassium manganate( ) was held at the mouth of the boiling tube. | the acidified aqueous VII potassium manganate( ) remained purple | | test 3 About 1 cm depth of dilute nitric acid followed by a few drops of aqueous silver nitrate were added to the second portion of solution Y. | yellow precipitate | | test 4 Aqueous ammonia was added dropwise and then in excess to the third portion of solution Y. | a white precipitate formed which dissolved in excess to give a colourless solution | 4 When solution A and solution B are mixed they react slowly to form iodine. Starch solution is added to the mixture to act as an indicator. When a certain amount of iodine is made there is a sudden colour change to blue-black. Plan an investigation to find the effect of temperature on the rate of the reaction between solution A and solution B. You are provided with solution A, solution B, starch solution and common laboratory apparatus. ........................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................... ..................................................................................................................................................... [6] BLANK PAGE BLANK PAGE Permission to reproduce items where third-party owned material protected by copyright is included has been sought and cleared where possible. Every reasonable effort has been made by the publisher (UCLES) to trace copyright holders, but if any items requiring clearance have unwittingly been included, the publisher will be pleased to make amends at the earliest possible opportunity. To avoid the issue of disclosure of answer-related information to candidates, all copyright acknowledgements are reproduced online in the Cambridge Assessment International Education Copyright Acknowledgements Booklet. This is produced for each series of examinations and is freely available to download at www.cambridgeinternational.org after the live examination series. Cambridge Assessment International Education is part of Cambridge Assessment. Cambridge Assessment is the brand name of the University of Cambridge Local Examinations Syndicate (UCLES), which is a department of the University of Cambridge. | <urn:uuid:4bb6ee6d-e2be-4ea2-834c-230ce469c705> | https://papers.xtremepape.rs/CAIE/IGCSE/Chemistry%20(0620)/0620_s22_qp_63.pdf | HuggingFaceFW/finepdfs-edu | - Historic Sites The People’s Banker The son of an Italian immigrant built the largest privately held bank in the world by helping other immigrants September 1998 | Volume 49, Issue 5 Many distinguished economists of the mid-twentieth century predicted an American economy that would be dominated by a relative handful of giant companies, soon nicknamed on Wall Street the Nifty Fifty. And certainly the waves of mergers in the last generation have concentrated economic power in fewer and fewer corporate hands, right? Well, no, actually, they have not. In 1967 the top two hundred nonfinancial companies held 41 percent of the country’s business assets. By 1988 they held only 32 percent, and that number has continued to drop in the last decade. The reason, of course, is that the economy has grown even faster than its largest companies have merged. And new companies, which tend to grow fastest of all, have been appearing like mushrooms after a rain. In 1967, after all, neither Intel nor Microsoft even existed, and now both are being sued by the federal government as monopolies. An exception to this has been the banking industry. The number of American banks reached its peak in 1921, when we had no fewer than 31,076 of them. A little more than a decade later, after the Armageddon of the Great Depression, a mere 14,771 still operated. By 1996, although banking assets had soared to $4.6 trillion, there were only 9,528. That, to be sure, still gives the United States more banks than the rest of the world combined. But that is an artifact not of economics but of history and of the deep fear of banks held by Thomas Jefferson and his political heirs. Banks were from the country’s earliest days greatly restricted by state regulations in their ability to grow and merge. Many states limited branch banking, and some forbade it altogether. Slowly, under the pressure of sheer economic necessity, these restrictions have been easing. Recently even giant banks have been allowed to merge, and this year has seen this trend accelerate even more. Most notable has been the merger of Nationsbank, based in Charlotte, North Carolina, and Bank-America, formerly the Bank of America, based in San Francisco, to form what is, at least for the moment, the largest American banking corporation. The Bank of America has an only-inAmerica history. American bankers traditionally have had Waspy names like Peabody, Morgan, and Stillman. But the Bank of America was founded by a man named Giannini. Amadeo Peter Giannini was born in San Jose in 1870. His father, Luigi, had come to California from Italy and bought a forty-acre truck farm, only to be murdered by one of his workers in a dispute over two dollars in wages. Giannini’s mother married Lorenzo Scatena, a self-employed teamster. Scatena proved to have no talents as a farmer, and his wife suggested he try his hand at being a commission clerk, working for a wholesale firm. This turned out to be a very good idea, for Scatena had the gifts that make a good broker, an unerring sense of how the market is moving and an ability to make quick decisions. He was soon earning $250 a month, a comfortable middle-class income at that time, and when he went into business for himself, he made a profit of $1,500 by the end of his first month. After completing eighth grade and five months at Heald’s Business College, A. P. Giannini decided to leave school and go to work for his stepfather. “The old waterfront commission business was a pretty stiff school for men,” he remembered long afterward. “I used to study them down there and I suppose I picked up the knack of sizing up men.” It quickly turned out that he, too, had what it took to make a great broker. In the summer of 1887, when he was only seventeen, Giannini, sure that there would be a shortage of pears that autumn, persuaded his stepfather to trust him on a buying trip to the Sacramento Valley, where he promptly bought up all the pears he could get his hands on for future delivery. It was a huge gamble, but he was right; the firm cleared a profit of fifty thousand dollars on pears alone that year. Not surprisingly, Giannini was soon in charge of all buying trips to the Sacramento Valley. He quickly demonstrated that other requirement for economic success, the capacity for hard work. “I used to take a loaf of bread and a big Italian cheese along with me for my lunch and supper,” he said. “I never aimed to arrive at a place when they were having meals. It would have meant a serious loss of time.” Giannini soon proved himself indispensable. His stepfather gave him a one-third interest in the business in 1889 and two years later raised it to one-half. In 1892 Giannini married Clorinda Cuneo, the daughter of an Italian immigrant who had made a fortune in real estate. At the turn of the century, Giannini had income from investments of about $250 a month, plus his half-interest in his stepfather’s firm. That, Giannini decided, was enough. “I don’t want to be rich,” he said. “No man actually owns a fortune; it owns him.” He sold his interest in the family firm to a group of employees for a hundred thousand dollars and, at the ripe old age of thirty-one, retired. | <urn:uuid:705ee3d2-f78e-497b-9e59-38785c4644af> | http://www.americanheritage.com/content/people%E2%80%99s-banker | HuggingFaceFW/fineweb-edu | Double-Blind Peer Reviewed Refereed Open Access International Journal - Included in the International Serial Directories Indexed & Listed at: Ulrich's Periodicals Directory ©, U.S.A., Open J-Gate as well as in Cabell's Directories of Publishing Opportunities, U.S.A The Cultural World of the Enslaved African Americans Dr Archana Ojha Associate Professor: Kamala Nehru College, University of Delhi firstname.lastname@example.org Abstract: The research paper explores the process of American scholars' comprehension of the cultural world of enslaved African Americans. The article emphasizes how scholars began to explore this unknown terrain and outlined a new pedagogical approach to understanding the world of enslaved blacks in America. The paper also approaches the realm of contradictions that existed between the two contradictory cultural worlds of the enslaved blacks and their enslavers, who professed to be the beacon of democracy, liberty and individualism while denying the same to those involuntary Africans on whose labour the nineteenth century America embarked on the path of economic prosperity, national growth and strengthening of its political foundations in the nineteenth century America. Keywords: Paternalism, social separation, racial spaces, memories, tales, folklore, Methodism, Evangelicalism, oral culture, folktraditions Introduction Slave culture became an important research topic in African-American history when Stanley Elkins presented a dark aspect of the psychic emasculation of black Americans by an exploitative institution that encountered few societal barriers to its operation. He emphasized on "sambo personality" of the slaves, which left them without culture and self-respect, an "infantilized" personality incapable of rebellion and dependent on their masters. i In criticism, black historian John Blassingame stressed the strength and mental independence of slaves due to their association with their group members. ii Similarly, Peter Woods emphasized the importance of an Afro-American culture among slaves.In a more complex study, it was E. D. Genovese who combined Marxist interpretation with the study of cultural aspects. He emphasized the moral independence and cultural unity of the slaves and also studied how slave masters set up their Double-Blind Peer Reviewed Refereed Open Access International Journal - Included in the International Serial Directories Indexed & Listed at: Ulrich's Periodicals Directory ©, U.S.A., Open J-Gate as well as in Cabell's Directories of Publishing Opportunities, U.S.A physical and mental powers over the slaves. He considered the relationship between the two as complex and ambivalent based on paternalism in the plantation economic and social system. Paternalism, in this sense, existed from the white man‟s point of view. As for slaves, the relationship was of exasperation, indignation, distrust and animosity. There always existed a contentious gulf between the two. Slaves knew they were considered beasts of burden maintained by their masters to advance their economic profits and social status. The white master carried this gulf based on a carefully crafted ideology of racism, racial bias and a mental abyss created on the twin foundations of injustice and oppression of blacks. From 1863 till the almost mid-twentieth century, American scholarship looked towards slave culture from top to bottom– from white to black – guided by evolutionary ideology seeking that Euro-Americans influenced African-American culture and to ensure their enslavement remained permanent. They were projected as „primitive‟, „barbaric‟ and „childlike‟ in their behaviour and therefore needed to be under the paternal control of the „civilizing‟ whites. In contrast, the slaves in America experienced not only alien conditions and environment, but in this New World, they encountered new forms of punishment, exploitation and racism in its most cruel forms, aspects and structures. Growth of Two Antagonistic Cultural Worlds Over some time, two polarized cultural worlds began to emerge, particularly in the southern region dominated by a slave mode of production established on the aspect of physical differences (racism), then stretching mental and social separation from each other that led to the creation of divided racial spaces where the slaves developed their own unique African-American culture. Double-Blind Peer Reviewed Refereed Open Access International Journal - Included in the International Serial Directories Indexed & Listed at: Ulrich's Periodicals Directory ©, U.S.A., Open J-Gate as well as in Cabell's Directories of Publishing Opportunities, U.S.A According to Paul D. Escott, „two worlds‟ existed in the southern states, divided into two opposing zones. The slaves developed their unique cultural world to establish not only their identity as human beings but also to bear the burden of slavery by developing different value systems, codes of ethics, religious realm, the spiritual universe and understanding of their environment with lingering fragile but precious African memories and traditions they continued to pass on from generation to generation to sustain and provide inner strength to their community along with independent thought process. iii According to Paul D. Escott, the power of slave culture emerged from three sources: their austere existential experiences of racial exploitation,the development of life-saving skills and internal structures to overcome racism. They created their cultural world of beliefs and practices, along with their code of ethics based on their sense of justice which became an essential element in their everyday struggle against the dark world created by the whites. iv The Cultural World of the Blacks The whites defined slaves as separate, inferior and sub-human species, denying their existence as independent individuals. As a socially subjugated class, the slave could rise from one form of intense labour to another without bringing about any significant rise or shift in their status, rank or removal of bias against their racial identity. The excessively exploited form of the labour system necessitated the development of their moral system independent of white control and racial regulations. The essential elements of African-American culture were, in reality,an amalgamation of African, Indigenous tribal and European cultures that slaves encountered, experienced and assimilated for their survival in the New World. The fact remains that racial hostility, prejudice, and exploitation led to a sense of loyalty, cohesion and cooperation to prevent the entry of whites into their personal spaces, thoughts and the inner world. v The first step towards the creation of their own „space‟ was in terms of their appearance,which became part of their cultural identity, and the „other‟ became the „self‟ by adopting African hairstyles, headdresses, and clothes a mixture of indigenous tribal encounters and experiences along with European styles. This amalgamation of different types marked a process of identity-building that assisted them in blendinginto their world,separating themselves from the dominant white community. The outer appearance of difference extended further in terms of their spoken language as they were never educated in the Western sense. Therefore, the slaves developed „pidgin‟ in which people with different African native languages could communicate and transmit their cultural traditions with many essential aspects of language borrowed from the language of their colonizers. Sterling Stuckey saidEnglish brought diverse Africans together. vi Still, according to Genovese, cultural penetration was a Double-Blind Peer Reviewed Refereed Open Access International Journal - Included in the International Serial Directories Indexed & Listed at: Ulrich's Periodicals Directory ©, U.S.A., Open J-Gate as well as in Cabell's Directories of Publishing Opportunities, U.S.A two-way street as the slaves borrowed from whites and mixed it with their African heritage. Slaves also developed their forms of oral culture through the world of sound: words spoken, chanted or sung through dances and tales. Denial of Western education necessitated the need to develop an internal community mechanism whereby older adults within the slave community became great storytellers along with riddles, proverbs and folktales through which they transmitted aspects of their unique forms of morality and training to live in the environment of an oppressive world. Mysteries or tales,including stories, proverbs, anecdotes and jokes based on the African past and their systems of present experiences, became an essential tool forthe transmission of African-American cultural values and education that led to memory training amongst the youngsters, developedthe power of reasoning, philosophical questions and development of analytical skill. Slave tales had hope for the future and were an important tool of survival essential to maintain family ties and the obedience of the parents and elders. It also became a tool for transmitting their own religious beliefs. Their trickster tales had multiple meanings and showed how weak could defeat or manipulate mighty,influential people. Trickster tales narrated parodies of cruel masters and the institution's injustice, hypocrisy and immorality. Sterling Stuckey has pointed out the importance of storytelling fortransmitting slave culture to successive generations based on African storytelling traditions. According to Sterling Stuckey, it was through slave culture that slaves belonging to different ethnic African groups were unified in the New World and made it into a distinct African-American community. vii The slaves evolved their songs, tales, rituals and ceremonies to construct an African character of slave culture. Their songs were based on nature with a solid relationship to dance and bodily movements. These cultural elements were based on African roots and indicated their cultural selfassertion and psychological release. Even with slave virtues, ideals, manners, and modes of hospitality, the outlook differed significantly from the whites. In this sense, black culture had developed as a source of power and strategy of resistance, rebellion and obedience into a masterpiece of slave art mastery of deception. viii The foundations of slave music had distinct cultural traditions created by mixing individual and community expressions. According to John Blassingame, Black music was based on their understanding and adoption of Christianityalong with the combination of the musical forms inherited from Africa, Christian imagery, and the English language, made the "spirituals" an original, diasporic and artistic creation that led to use of musical instruments like drums and banjo used even during their religious sermons along with rhythmical melodies and chants to liven up their lives and surroundings liberating their mental world from extreme forms of physical oppression. These traditions, over some Double-Blind Peer Reviewed Refereed Open Access International Journal - Included in the International Serial Directories Indexed & Listed at: Ulrich's Periodicals Directory ©, U.S.A., Open J-Gate as well as in Cabell's Directories of Publishing Opportunities, U.S.A time, created a new genre of musical practice that came to be known as jazz and blues music. Even their varied dance forms based on vigorous athletic movements known as 'patting juba' helped to release their pent-up emotions and liberate their bodies, if only for brief interludes. Over some time, despite the official policy of denial of education to the slaves, the community, through individual exemplary courage of many African-Americans like a Maryland mathematician and astronomer Benjamin Banneker (1731-1806), considered to be the first African-American scientist that assisted in the survey of District of Columbia in 1791. Banneker published an almanac from 1792 to 1797, and abolitionists cited his mathematical ability as proof that people of African descent possessed all the higher mental capabilities of white people and, therefore, slavery was wrong. Banneker had also sent his first almanac to Thomas Jefferson to persuade him to accept the equality of blacks. African-born poet, Phillis Wheatley of Boston, was known for her poems like Poems on Various Subjects, Religious and Moral (1773). She also wrote poems on George Washington and the Methodist preacher George Whitefield. Her lyrics clearly outlined that African people possessed full humanity and deserved freedom. She also wrote a poem on Scipio Moorhead (ca. 1750-n.d.), a black artist who engraved the front page of her book of poetry. Even the slave rituals maintained their long-lost African heritage based on their belief in the living dead, conjuration or ghosts or apparitions,andfaith in magic traditions and the art of interpreting dreams. ix Their universe consisted of spirits who could be invoked or provoked, with belief in magic, and luck was important in their uncertain lives. Slaves brought with them their African techniques of agricultural production. They taught their exploiters how to cultivate certain vegetables, crops like rice, indigo and cotton, gardens, read weather signs, and they brought with them the knowledge of how to deal with varied wildlife and animals like alligators. They developed their own medicine, teas and tonics based on ingredients found in America to cure themselves of common ailments. x According to John Blassingame, the slaves introduced basket weaving, wood carving, pottery, and making unique musical instruments; some African architectural features are notablecontributionsto African-American experiences. Double-Blind Peer Reviewed Refereed Open Access International Journal - Included in the International Serial Directories Indexed & Listed at: Ulrich's Periodicals Directory ©, U.S.A., Open J-Gate as well as in Cabell's Directories of Publishing Opportunities, U.S.A The Black Religion and the Church Religion provided slaves with a set of ethics and a different view of the universe, providing them spiritual independence and religious justice from white propaganda and oppression as they rejected white man's religious traditions along with a system of praying and preaching that continuously reminded them of their subordinate and subjugated position. In the process, slaves developed a different emotional aspect of their Christian religion. Their moral behaviour also differed when they resorted to stealing and theft. They did not consider that immoralas they took what rightfully and legally belonged to them, which became an integral part of their ethics of justice. Religion forslaves meant: - Mental and spiritual freedom and a universe free from enslavement supported liberation ideology. - Ethical code of behaviour, which supported their various forms of resistance. - The Spiritual vision of faith in humanity. - Dignity of human labour. In slave religion, the most dominant image of the spirituals is that of a chosen people on their way to the promised land, and they maintained personal contact with God. In contrast, Jesus and Moses were considered significant others in the daily lives of the slaves. Their own „God‟ in their independent mental space gave them the power of reasoning, rationality, and inner strength to face and resist the exploitative environment whenever the opportunity presented itself. xi The early African American religion came from the bottom up. Black preachers,including some women, were not formally educated; they gained knowledge directly from God or the Holy Spirit. Another facet of African American religion was that it was multiracial and evangelical. Early Methodism and the many independent churches and sects it inspired reflect this dimension. The founder of Methodism was the English Anglican priest John Wesley in Georgia, where the first two people he baptized were enslaved women. Methodist congregations met in homes where people of all races, genders and stations of life met and narrated their own stories of personal salvation. It also led to the emergence of black preachers like Harry Hosier, who was born enslaved (1750-1806) near Fayetteville, North Carolina and was known as „Black Harry‟. Hosier became the first black American Methodist preacher. Another black woman Methodists preacher was Isabella, born enslaved in New York State in 1797 and later gave Double-Blind Peer Reviewed Refereed Open Access International Journal - Included in the International Serial Directories Indexed & Listed at: Ulrich's Periodicals Directory ©, U.S.A., Open J-Gate as well as in Cabell's Directories of Publishing Opportunities, U.S.A herself a new name, Sojourner Truth. She emerged as a gifted preacher in her native Ulster County in the Hudson River Valley in the late 1820s. She later moved to New York after becoming free by a New York law in 1828. By the 1840s, she began turning her power as a preacher toward antislavery and feminist movements. The third dimension of black religion was organized churches. Breaking away from white congregations in the late eighteenth century, Black Northerners founded their church organizations in Philadelphia. The African Methodist Episcopal (AME) church, the first black church connection, grew out of American Methodism. One black preacher, Richard Allen (1760-1831), had impressed Methodist circuit riders with his piety and preaching abilities and permitted him to purchase his freedom. Allen later settled in Philadelphia, preaching to Black people at St. George Methodist Episcopal Church. As blacks were subjected to stringent regulations, Allen and his colleague Absalom Jones (1746-1818) established their own Free African Society of Philadelphia in 1787. In 1794, they left the white-dominated church and setup their own Bethel African Methodist Episcopal Church. After long years of struggle with St. George church over control of Mother Bethel, Allen joined hands with Daniel Coker (1780-1846), the leader of Baltimore‟s Black Methodists and other black Methodists from Salem, New Jersey, and Attleborough, Pennsylvania. Together, they formed the African Methodist Episcopal Church connection in 1816, which became the first Black denomination Church. Daniel Coker was a founder of the African Methodist Episcopal Church and was the son of a white indentured mother and an enslaved black father. Coker spent the years from 1820-1821 as a pioneer in the newly established Maryland colony of Liberia, then spent mostof his life in Sierra Leone. This region was set by free northern blacks and formerly enslaved people who had joined with white American colonization society to create the new colony of Liberia in West Africa in 1820. In Sierra Leone, Coker published several articles opposing slavery. The roots of the African Methodist Episcopal Zion church were formed in the northern city in the late 18 th century New York. Here the black Methodists belonged to the John Street Methodist Church, whose congregation was about 40% black in 1793. Black members of this church formed their African Chapel, known as the Zion Church, in 1796 under the leadership of Peter Williams (1763-1836). The African Chapel became independent in 1801 and becamea separate denomination between 1820 and 1824. Double-Blind Peer Reviewed Refereed Open Access International Journal - Included in the International Serial Directories Indexed & Listed at: Ulrich's Periodicals Directory ©, U.S.A., Open J-Gate as well as in Cabell's Directories of Publishing Opportunities, U.S.A The independent black churches offered ample opportunities to black men but did not welcome women preachers. They, too, obeyed St. Paul‟s stricture against women speaking out in church even though most members were women.Although most women black preachers were extremely gifted but illiterate, that was an essential basic requirement for church leadership. Women preachers were also least organized and needed help to become ministers. Some gifted female preachers were Jarena Lee (1783-ca. the 1850s) and Zilpha Elaw (ca. 1790-ca. 1850s). During this time, blacks began developing their art forms based on Christian motifs. Hagar's figure, Abraham's servant and bearer of his child Ishmael, appeared most in the black writings as African Americans could see parallels between her situation and that of enslaved black women and single parents. Black women also made quilts, like Harriet Powers (1837-1911), who made figures of her people and Bible quilts. xii Religion for African Americans became a form of mental resistance against physical oppression. Religion became a weapon of defence, which inculcated in them community values, a sense of compassion and the ability to critically comprehend their masters and reject the ideological rationale for their enslavement. xiii Conclusion On the other hand, the Southern whites stressed the importance of individual piety rather than social regeneration as Southern politicians, intellectuals, and religions aimed to provide no space for social experimentation. The North witnessed the 'era of reform' through the growth of utopian socialism and trade unionism, feminism, pacifism and abolitionism. The Southerners criticized the development of such „isms‟ as they preferred conservatism, order and tradition. Slaves also rejected the interpretation of Christianity as propounded by their masters, who emphasizedobedience, humility and release from suffering in an afterlife rather than in this world. Slaves viewed themselves as chosen people. From the Bible, they were attracted to the stories where people overcame adversity, like Daniel escaping the lion‟s den, David slaying Goliath and Moses leading his people to a promised land of freedom. In religion, blacks found a vehicle for surviving the experience of enslavement with their dignity intact and, in the church, space to develop a leadership independent of white control. Double-Blind Peer Reviewed Refereed Open Access International Journal - Included in the International Serial Directories Indexed & Listed at: Ulrich's Periodicals Directory ©, U.S.A., Open J-Gate as well as in Cabell's Directories of Publishing Opportunities, U.S.A Eugene Genovese believed that religion was the centrality of the slave world. They used it as a tool of resistance and spiritual comfort and relief to slaves, providingthe power of endurance to the slave community. They developed a distinctive African-American religion that included conjurers, magicians, and Christian preachers who emphasized faith, love, and not rigid doctrine or formal structure. They made their religion into a space of happiness and peace that inspired, according to Albert Raboteau, a strong community sense. According to Lawrence Levine, it provided them with alternative religious standards by creating space with the help of which they prevented legal slavery from becoming spiritual slavery. They extensively practised voodoo, and conjurers influenced the slave community and developed what is termed by Blassingame into syncretic African Christianity. He states that the Black church was the "single most important institution for the 'Americanization' of the bondsman'. Christianity provided both spiritual release and spiritual victory. xiv Moreover, in the words of Sterling Stuckey, "Christianity shot through with African values." Based onthe points mentioned above, Herbert G. Gutman opines that the process of cultural formation among Afro-American slaves began before the American War of Independence and continued well after the civil war. xv According to E.D. Genovese, American slavery was chattel based on material possession that could be bought, sold, mortgaged and rented. The control of this property established a racial distinction between master and slave and created an unjust social order based on cruelty and hatred. This socio-cultural world was also based on a land-plantation system where slaveholders had become entrenched as the regional ruling class. Therefore, the Southern slave system was paternalistic as it was based on racism, slavery, and class exploitation. Paternalism was based on the method of superordination and subordination. It created racism, undermined the worth of slaves‟ sense as black people, and reinforced their dependence on white masters. Once made racially inferior, slaves were exploited to provide high status, authority and prestige to their masters. However, despite all these,slavesretained their self-worth and self-respect through the development of African-American culture. xvi Double-Blind Peer Reviewed Refereed Open Access International Journal - Included in the International Serial Directories Indexed & Listed at: Ulrich's Periodicals Directory ©, U.S.A., Open J-Gate as well as in Cabell's Directories of Publishing Opportunities, U.S.A iElkins, Stanley. 1982.Slavery: A Problem in American Institutional and Intellectual Life. Chicago: University of Chicago Press. iii ii Blassingame, John. 1979. The Slave Community: Plantation Life in Antebellum South . Rev. ed. New York: Oxford University Press. Escott, Paul D. 1979. Slavery Remembered: A Record of Twentieth Century Slave Narratives. U.S.: University of North Carolina Press, 95. iv v Escott, Paul D. 1979. p. 96. Escott, Paul D. 1979. pp. 96 – 100. vii viStuckey, Sterling. 1987.Slave Culture: Nationalist Theory & the Foundations of Black America, Oxford University Press, New York, p. 77 Stuckey, Sterling. 1987, p. 77. viii John Blassingame, ed., Slave Testimony: Two Centuries of Letters, Speeches, Interviews and Autobiographies. Louisiana, Louisiana State University Press, 1977. ix x Escott, Paul D. 1979. pp. 102 – 104. Escott, Paul D. 1979, p. 108 xiiPainter, Nell Irvin. 2006.Creating Black Americans: African American History and its Meanings, 1619 to the Present, OxfordUniversity Press. xiEscott, Paul D. 1979. pp. 112 – 114. xiiiSegal, Ronald. 1995.The Black Diaspora: Five Centuries of Black Experience Outside Africa. New York: Farrar, Straus and Giroux. Blassingame, John. 1977. xiv 82–84. xvGutman, Herbert G. 1976.The Black Family in Slavery and Freedom, 1750-1925. New York: Pantheon. xviGenovese, E. D. 1965.The Political Economy of Slavery. New York: Pantheon. | <urn:uuid:134938d8-3eb8-4b33-87e8-e4dcfa134067> | https://ijmra.us/project%20doc/2016/IJRSS_APRIL2016/IJRSSApril16DrAO.pdf | HuggingFaceFW/finepdfs-edu | Like0 Dislike0 Belly Dancer Game. You can play Belly Dancer in your browser for free. Tyra is a princess and you know that she wants to become a belly dancer? Wow, it is forbidden in her country. But Tyra doesn't care so much about it. She wants to live with her dream. She practice hard and now she has the first performance. She needs to look wonderful. Help her dress up. | <urn:uuid:0a77a017-ece7-4c62-8e0a-b07a5fd77de9> | http://pfreegames.com/belly-dancer/es | mlfoundations/dclm-baseline-1.0-parquet | &@ Make Your Paleo Cooking More Fun !! $# Healthy side dishes for pork What is a paleo diet what can i eat,natural weight loss after delivery,healthy cooking channel youtube,how to stick to a healthy diet and exercise plan - Within Minutes The true theory behind the Paleo diet is that the Neolithic era is when we really started mucking things up as far as nutrition goes. The moniker of Paleolithic Diet leads to a lot of ambiguity of what you can and canвЂ™t have, and causes debate within Paleo circles. These foods will stand out like a sore thumb when youвЂ™re following a Paleo lifestyle, and are easy to spot and say no to. Common additives that are avoided on Paleo, and should be avoided in general for a healthier life: aspartame, calcium sorbate, monosodium glutamate (MSG), nitrates, potassium bromate, saccharin, sorbic acid, artificial colors, artificial sweeteners and GMOs. Paleolithic man was bent on survival, which didnвЂ™t leave much time for food that leaves you feeling fat and gross. There definitely wasnвЂ™t a Burger King competing next to every McDonaldвЂ™s in the time of Stone Age man, no matter what The FlintstoneвЂ™s would have you believe. Paleo diets cut out the grains, which is why theyвЂ™re often confused as being grain-free diets or gluten-free diets. You might have to do a double take on some of these, and theyвЂ™re the harder ones to remember, and the ones most likely to trip you up because they find their way into the Standard American Diet all the time. Because it comes from animals, dairy seems like it would be on the approved list, but it isnвЂ™t, at least if you want to be strictly Paleo. This is one thing that is sometimes hard to come to terms with when eating according to the Paleo guidelines. There are food items like Quinoa that arenвЂ™t quite a grain, but function much like a grain and cause a lot of confusion as to whether or not you can have them. This is by no means an exhaustive list of foods you canвЂ™t eat on the Paleo Diet, but it will help you avoid some of the worst offenders. Man only started eating meat when he found fire, they did not want to leave it, so built homes around the fire, then how no one knows, they found that they could eat meat by cooking it, it filled them up for more time so did not have to go gathering so much. Well in fact, it’s been discovered that other primates eat raw meat so perhaps, rather likely, early humans did too. The Paleo diet is based on a time also when humans did not have advancements in storing, refrigeration. I have found the Paleo diet to be very helpful for me in terms of weight stabilization, feeling healthy, and avoiding the yo-yo with dieting and binge- eating. Cut out fried foods,sweets,products that say fat free cause they have even more unhealthy things added to replace the fat,outside of paleo diet if u do eat carbs keep it in your 1st meal of the day(breakfast), no processed foods frsh meats only,and get out hike ride a bike walk fast, join a gym and dedicate 3 days minimum. Life expectancy back then was low not because of diet, but because of lack of anything truly medical, and the harsh world they lived in. The way i look at it, if you could come across it in the wild and it could aid in your survival if you were starving, then you can have it. I allow legumes and nuts, and i allow potatos as there is no reason not to be able to eat them. Cauliflowerrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr is all you ll be eating in this wonderful diet…. I am by no means a nutritionist or have any sort of health related degree but I do know what it feels like to eat in such a manner that my body rewards me in return for it. Eating paleo means eliminating all processed foods, grains, starches, dairy, legumes, sugar- unless in it’s natural form as in fruit or organic raw honey (but even those should be limited). Below is a very basic paleo guide- but feel free to do your own research and through trial and error you too will discover what works best for you and your lifestyle! Following is a more detailed description of the food categories you’re allowed to eat. The Paleo diet is an effort to eat similar to the hunters and gatherers that lived thousands of years ago, who literally just ate everything that they could find. Unlike most other fad diets that usually fail, Paleo has a clear inspiration and legit reason for showing up. The foods that you can enjoy in this diet are basically anything that a caveman would have been able to find or gather. The good thing about eating strict Paleo food is that you can basically eat as much as you want and you will eventually find yourself at a healthy weight. The only situation I think the diet would not help, is extremely active athletes who’s goals are to gain a lot of lean muscle and mass. It can sometimes be hard to put yourself in the shoes of people that lived tens of thousands of years ago, when the world was a very different place. Paleo purists would reject anything that hints at being an invention of the Neolithic era, that time that spelled the end of the Paleolithic era and ended a mere 4,000 years ago. On some foods youвЂ™re going to have to make up your own mind how often you have them and in what amounts. Many of the artificial ingredients commonly found in foods eaten daily by the majority of Americans were created in the last 100 years, some even more recently. TodayвЂ™s sodas are rife with High Fructose Corn Syrup and other artificial ingredients, and have no nutritional value whatsoever. Nothing that comes out of a fast food restaurant would be considered Paleo, and would actually be considered the opposite of Paleo for how much engineering goes into every morsel they create. Foods that are generally thought of as healthy and promoted in several other diet plans, like peanut butter in The Abs Diet or lentils in The Slow Carb Diet, are a no-go on Paleo. The problem with many of the most popular foods eaten in our society is that they nullify the good things that are eaten and donвЂ™t provide much nutrition themselves, making them doubly bad. The official answer is no, but many Paleo followers will allow themselves to have some on occasion since it falls into a gray area of sorts. ItвЂ™s a two step process when following Paleo, side step the foods you arenвЂ™t supposed to have while keeping yourself well nourished and feeling good with the foods that you are allowed and encouraged to eat. I love helping people discover new paleo recipes and enjoy giving helpful tips on the Paleo diet. But Gluten free diets tend to use a lot of processed foods still to replace breads, while the Paleo diet focuses on generally using whole, fresh, and clean foods. It also doesn’t hurt that one of my major interests has always been paleo anthropology and archaeology! If you don’t end up completely convinced about this diet, you may want to find out if a gluten free diet is right for you. If you are one of these people you probably need more calories than a strict Paleo diet can offer. The funny thing is that the top Crossfit athletes who workout multiple times per day don’t use this diet. ThatвЂ™s a bit too extreme for most to follow, and the vast majority of those that eat Paleo-inspired diets are not getting caught up to that degree, as there wouldnвЂ™t be much to choose from for anyone living in or near a major metropolis. The Paleo Era lasted for so long and includes so many changes, many of which we have no way of knowing about or accounting for, so itвЂ™s all left to the individual and what feels right for them. Often written off as empty carbs, they often contain caffeine which is not a natural substance for humans, and not a chemical that is consumed while following a Paleo way of life. Grains represent one of the biggest tiers of that pyramid, with meats forming the tiniest sliver, which means the Paleo diet is going against much of what your brain has been pummeled with since you were a kid. By the very definition of the diet you would renounce these things as mistakes made by Neolithic man and strengthened by modern man. Human milk as a baby is clearly the natural way to go in regards to milk consumption, and the Paleo diet is all about getting back to the most natural time of our existence. The exception to this is canned food, which technically wouldnвЂ™t be Paleo because they didnвЂ™t can their food back then. ItвЂ™s the phytic acid thatвЂ™s being nixed here, and is the same reason why youвЂ™re not going to be eating grains when eating Paleo. You have to be very sure to understand why these foods arenвЂ™t recommended for you, so that you donвЂ™t cave in and eat them, causing you to feel bad about yourself or to give up entirely. It can be tough going against modern society and turning back the clock, but itвЂ™s not impossible when you have your facts straight. With 470+ easy-to-prepare Paleo recipes in 17 comprehensive categories it is the only Paleo book you will ever need. I have been making a living writing about the Paleo Diet for the last year and have never been happier. I was a vegetarian for years, and some months I’ve been obsessed with extreme low-calorie high-exercise regimes, while other times I rarely exercise and I give up on dieting or eating healthy entirely. I have done similar diets, many years ago and it worked forme, but for some reason, this time I’ve found it hard to keep it up, and your words(above), were what I needed. Well, as it’s just day three of our challenge I can already begin to feel my body thanking me for getting back on track- for me that means an increase in energy and a decrease on the scale. If you are looking to lose as much weight as you can as fast as possible, we recommend faithfully adhering to the rules outlined below. Most of what we can find nowadays is processed foods that are stuffed with chemicals instead of nutrients. They only ate what they could find which was animal protein, berries, nuts, seeds, and leafy greens. Sodas are often linked to conditions like diabetes, high blood pressure, obesity, heart disease, and even cancer. This is one of the hardest aspects of the Paleo Diet to keep in mind because processed foods account for a large majority of the food you find in the supermarket or grocery store. Please read about my journey here and see how I turned my passion for the Paleo lifestyle into a successful blog and career. The Paleo option removes the foods I usually binge on (peanut butter, chips, popcorn, etc.) and provides only healthy options. Most people would benefit from it because it is probably the most nutrient diet that you can find. As it’s been the most stressful year of my life I have found myself turning to food for comfort and straying away from paleo, so this challenge was exactly what I needed to bring me right back and realize why I love paleo so much in the first place. They eat what they were meant to eat (cows-grass, fish-other fish or sea life, chicken-bugs) and they are not caged. The Paleo diet revealed will give you a good idea about the good, the bad, and the basics of what you can eat and why. The butcher is as close as you can come to going out and killing the animals yourself, and a farmerвЂ™s market is as close as you can come to growing your own food with few pesticides and herbicides, at least for city-dwellers. The only people who would have trouble with this diet are ones that want to gain weight, or take in a ton of calories. Indian diet plan for weight loss in one month pdf Blood type diet a positive Category: what is the paleo diet Comments to “What is a paleo diet what can i eat” 1. Jenifer: Intake for maintaining or gaining strength in trainings training to become. 2. KacokQarishqa: Then it is best for you to become one. 3. PaTRoN: Are more likely to avoid where the second. 4. mulatka: The Paleo diet soda pop or has candy. 5. azal: Diet, you are athletes are. | <urn:uuid:7417fc83-c3bf-4ad6-acab-e885d77d98ca> | http://s3.amazonaws.com/cookrecipe/what-is-a-paleo-diet-what-can-i-eat.html | mlfoundations/dclm-baseline-1.0-parquet | Health and Wellness Community Events Sponsored by The Washington Parks and Recreation Commission Mark your calendars and enjoy these FREE events at local businesses throughout January and February January 4th – Appalachian Trail Story Gina, a Shepaug Alumna, will tell her story of hiking the Appalachian Trail. She hiked from Maine to Georgia covering over 2,000 miles in 2017. Come hear her story. Learn about the animals she saw and the people she met along the way. 6:30pm – Bryan Memorial Town Hall, Washington Depot, CT January 11th – You Are Not Alone: Improving Your Health Deb Andrews will host a workshop titled: “You Are Not Alone.” Come identify your vision and initial steps on making it happen. Here you will begin to see the power within. You will need: Your positive attitude, a pen, and your journal. There will be note taking! 6:30pm – Bryan Memorial Town Hall, Washington Depot, CT January 15th – Family Swim Fun for the whole family! Lifeguards will be on duty. Children must be accompanied by an adult. 1:30 – 3:00pm at the Shepaug Pool January 18th – RIDE Spin Class Come join in a free class at RIDE. If you have not already tried this invigorating spin class, you are missing out. *Registration is required and space is limited to ten riders. Participants will have to go to www.ridelc.com and link into MINDBODY to sign up. Or if you have the MINDBODY app, sign up there without going through the RIDE website. 6:30pm – 219 Litchfield Turnpike, New Preston, CT January 25th – Parenting Happy and Healthy Teens During this talk, Claire Ketchum, a certified teacher and health coach, will share the key to motivating your teen to take action and create healthy habits that stick. In addition, you will be introduced to her signature four-step process which helps teens break free from their unhealthy habits so they can manage expectations better, experience more success and feel more at ease. You’ll leave with a clear understanding of exactly how to support your teen so they can be happier and healthier in school and beyond. 6:30pm – Bryan Memorial Town Hall, Washington Depot, CT February 1st – GET FIT! Melissa Evans will offer a free class suitable for all levels. Come get your sweat on with GET FIT! All you need are light weights, a yoga mat, and water. Class begins promptly at: 6:30pm – Judy Black Memorial Park at One Green Hill Rd., Washington Depot, CT February 8th – A Teaspoon of Sugar This is an educational presentation to empower individuals using a common sense and straight-forward approach for making smart food/beverage choices with regard to sugar consumption. The presentation is visually engaging and interactive. Diane Lash Decker has a Master of Science degree in Human Ecology and Nutrition. She has been writing articles on health since 1985, starting with a health newsletter for frequent flyers called “Health Flight.” In 1992, she developed a health program for preschool children that continued to evolve and expand over the next fifteen years. She is currently writing a children’s book on making healthy choices. 6:30pm – Bryan Memorial Town Hall, Washington Depot, CT February 10th – Winter Fest! Come join in the fun from 1:00 – 4:00pm at the River Walk Pavilion. Sportsmen’s of Litchfield will be giving guided snowshoe walks and instruction. In addition to snowshoeing, enjoy huddling around the fire, eating s’mores, playing in the snow, and being with friends. This is sure to be an event for the whole family and one not to be missed. Sportsmen’s of Litchfield is a top rated sports and outdoor store. They will have TUBBS snowshoes for all to use. If you would like to rent or purchase shoes over the winter, please stop by their store in Bantam. Snowshoes will be available for purchase at the Festival. February 20th – Yoga with Anne Hungerford Anne Hungerford will be teaching her signature ‘Hatha Flow’ Yoga Class. Good for strengthening, stretching, building stamina, developing focus and releasing stress. This type of yoga typically links the postures together into a series of movements that “flow” as a connected sequence. Hatha Flow involves moving from one posture to another sometimes with a period of staying in a posture longer which requires more focus, attention to detail, strength and balance. Breathing techniques are taught so they can be used in a way that supports the poses and the movements between the poses. At the teacher’s discretion, sometimes there is more of a focus on correct alignment within each pose. Develop strength, stamina, better balance and concentration. The class will end with a period of relaxation. This is an all level class. 6:00 – 7:45pm – 168 New Milford Turnpike, New Preston, CT February 22nd – Drumming Class Valley Spirit Co-op & Wellness Center begins its second year in service in Washington Depot with continued offerings of alternative healing therapies including acupuncture, therapeutic massage & facials, and classes featuring tai chi, yoga, and meditation. Local master drummer John Marshall has been leading a wonderful, family friendly drumming class every Wednesday since last summer. Come by to check out why everybody is smiling when they walk in and out of Valley Spirit; a community gathering place and healing center where healing, art, and music are all celebrated. 6:30pm – Valley Spirit Cooperative, 6 Green Hill Rd. Washington, CT February 27th – Mother Daughter Interactive Workshop Take the time to spend an hour with your daughter learning more about her social world. Identify how you can better support your daughter through the tricky maze of the tween and adolescent years. Come ready to actively engage, laugh and have fun with your daughter. Whitney Ryan is an expert and a frequent speaker on topics of girls’ and women’s issues. She currently teaches a Community Living Skills class for sixth grade girls at Rumsey Hall School and works at Wyonegoc Camp for Girls in Denmark, ME. 6:30pm – Bryan Memorial Town Hall, Washington Depot, CT | <urn:uuid:9e2a4ba1-354b-41ba-9063-8bdc85198d6b> | https://explorewashingtonct.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/08/health_and_wellness_community_events.pdf | HuggingFaceFW/finepdfs-edu |


--- [(PDF) Articulatory constraints on stop insertion and elision in consonant ...] ---
No content


--- [Duration of epenthetic [t] in polysyllabic American English words] ---
This paper reports how stress and the position of the /ns/ cluster in polysyllabic words affect [t] epenthesis in four different environments: (1) word-medial after a stressed vowel (e.g. 'cen.sus vs. 'dents us); (2) word-final after a stressed vowel (e.g. in.'tense vs. in'tents); (3) word-medial after a stressless vowel (e.g. con.'sent vs. blunt 'say.ing); and (4) word-final after a stressless vowel (e.g. 'sci.ence vs. 'con.tents). Analysis of stop closure durations in experimental sentences read by seven American English speakers reveals that position, not stress, is the most important factor in [t] epenthesis: final position (e.g. science and intense) favors epenthesis. Stress is found to have an effect on stop closure durations in the way it interacted with word-position – i.e. for the final /ns/ cluster, stress immediately before it disfavors epenthesis (e.g. intense). The underlying /t/ is shown to be not significantly longer than the epenthetic [t]. Measurements from polysyllabic words in the TIMIT corpus corroborate the experimental results that word-final position favors epenthesis and that stress does not correlate with epenthesis. In the TIMIT data, however, underlying /t/ was significantly longer than epenthetic [t]. Email your librarian or administrator to recommend adding this journal to your organisation's collection.


--- [War And Nation In The Theatre Of Shakespeare And His ...] ---
E-Book Overview This original study explores a vital aspect of early-modern cultural history: the way that warfare is represented in the theatre of Shakespeare and his contemporaries.The book contrasts the Tudor and Stuart prose that called for the establishment of a standing army in the name of nation, discipline and subjectivity and the drama of the period that invited critique of this imperative. Barker examines contemporary dramatic texts both for their radical position on war and, in the case of the later drama, for their subversive commentary on an emerging idealisation of Shakespeare and his work. The book argues that the early-modern period saw the establishment of political, social and theological attitudes to war that were to become accepted as natural in succeeding centuries. Barker's reading of the drama of the period reveals the discontinuities in this project as a way of commenting on the use of the past within modern warfare. The book is also a survey and analysis of literary theory over the last twenty-five years in relation to the issue of war - and develops an argument about the possibilities for the study of literature and war in the future. Features*Interdisciplinary approach addressing the early-modern period as one of particular importance in the history of warfare. *Examines the way that the period helped shape modern attitudes to war. *Sets Shakespeare in the context of those dramatists who preceded him, as well as his contemporaries and successors. *Surveys the work of the past and considers the future of criticism in relation to warfare. E-Book Content IN THE THEATRE OF Shakespeare AND HIS CONTEMPORARIES Simon Barker This original study explores a vital aspect of early modern cultural history: the way that warfare is represented in the theatre of Shakespeare and his contemporaries. The book contrasts the Tudor and Stuart prose that called for the establishment of a standing army in the name of nation, discipline and subjectivity, and the drama of the period that invited critique of this imperative. Barker examines contemporary dramatic texts both for their radical position on war and, in the case of the later drama, for their subversive commentary on an emerging idealisation of Shakespeare and his work. Simon Barker is Professor of English Literature at the University of Gloucestershire. He is editor, with Hilary Hinds, of The Routledge Anthology of Renaissance Drama (2003), and other recent books include Shakespeare’s Problem Plays (2005) and an edition of Thomas Deloney’s The Gentle Craft (2007). Cover design: Cathy Sprent Edinburgh University Press 22 George Square Edinburgh EH8 9LF www.eup.ed.ac.uk ISBN 978 0 7486 2765 3 Edinburgh Cover image: The Double-Armed Man by William Neade. War and Nation IN THE THEATRE OF Shakespeare AND HIS CONTEMPORARIES Simon Barker The book argues that the early modern period saw the establishment of political, social and theological attitudes to war that were to become accepted as natural in succeeding centuries. Barker’s reading of the drama of the period reveals the discontinuities in this project as a way of commenting on the use of the past within modern warfare. The book is also a survey and analysis of literary theory over the last twentyﬁve years in relation to the issue of early modern war and develops an argument about the study of literature and war in general. WAR AND NATION IN THE THEATRE OF SHAKESPEARE AND HIS CONTEMPORARIES War and Nation Simon Barker M1004 BARKER PRE M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:38 am Page i WAR AND NATION IN THE THEATRE OF SHAKESPEARE AND HIS CONTEMPORARIES M1004 BARKER PRE M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:39 am Page ii Ay, now will Death, in his most haughty pride, Fetch his imperial car from deepest hell, And ride in triumph through the wicked world; Sparing none but sacred Cynthia’s friend, Whom Death did fear, before her life began: For holy fates have graven it in their tables, That Death shall die, if he attempts her end, Whose life is heaven’s delight, and Cynthia’s friend. Thomas Kyd, Soliman and Perseda, 1591 You say it is the good cause that hallows even war? I tell you: it is the good war that hallows every cause. Friedrich Nietzsche, Thus Spake Zarathusa, 1891 As long as war is regarded as wicked, it will always have its fascination. When it is looked upon as vulgar, it will cease to be popular. Oscar Wilde, The Critic as Artist, 1891 We begin here because no life has ever been untouched by war. Everyone loves to discuss war. And yet its outcome, death, is shrouded in silence. Timberlake Wertenbaker, The Love of a Nightingale, 1989 M1004 BARKER PRE M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:39 am Page iii War and Nation in the Theatre of Shakespeare and his Contemporaries Simon Barker Edinburgh University Press M1004 BARKER PRE M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:39 am Page iv © Simon Barker, 2007 Edinburgh University Press Ltd 22 George Square, Edinburgh Typeset in Adobe Sabon by Servis Filmsetting Ltd, Manchester, and printed and bound in Great Britain by Biddles Ltd, King’s Lynn, Norfolk A CIP record for this book is available from the British Library ISBN 978 0 7486 2765 3 (hardback) The right of Simon Barker to be identified as author of this work has been asserted in accordance with the Copyright, Designs and Patents Act 1988. M1004 BARKER PRE M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:39 am Page v CONTENTS Preface vi Part I Introductory Worlds Chapter 1 Chapter 2 ‘Keep it dark’ In Theatre Part II Commitment Chapter 3 Chapter 4 Good Friday, 1513 ‘The Double-Armed Man’ Part III Shakespeare and the Wars Chapter 5 Chapter 6 ‘We band of brothers’ The Exit Strategy Part IV Refusal Chapter 7 Chapter 8 Chapter 9 Gentler Crafts Beyond History The Abandoned Soldier 3 24 49 76 109 143 157 181 206 Bibliography and Further Reading 213 Index 234 M1004 BARKER PRE M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:39 am Page vi PREFACE I came across the remarkable body of writing produced by Renaissance military theorists while undertaking my doctoral studies at the University of Wales during the 1980s. Maurice J. D. Cockle, a retired captain with the Border Regiment, had painstakingly gathered together the titles of various kinds of prose text for his Bibliography of English Military Books up to 1642 and of Contemporary Foreign Works, carefully supplying details of locations and provenance. This compendium, published in 1900, and limited to 250 copies, remains an invaluable resource for anyone interested in reading about the technical details and ideological trajectory of militarism in late Renaissance Europe. Cockle’s book has an introductory note by the historian Charles Oman, and it is surprising that the treatises, pamphlets and manuals listed by Cockle remained of more interest to historians than to literary scholars for much of the twentieth century. John Hale, an inspired historian with a keen interest in the relationship between literature and history, clearly saw the potential this body of work had for an understanding of fictional representations of warfare in the early modern period. His research provides a lucid and compelling guide to the rich variety of Renaissance military writing. As far as I can tell, the first book-length study of the connections that can be made between this prose and the stage was Paul A. Jorgensen’s Shakespeare’s Military World (1956). Those who have become interested in Shakespeare’s representation of militarism rightly acknowledge the immense importance of Jorgensen’s work and I was very grateful to receive his advice and support during my own early research. A number of publications arose from my investigation into early modern militarism and some elements of the present book are based on these, as well as on my edition of The Gentle Craft, Thomas Deloney’s late Elizabethan book on the history of shoemaking. Most of my earlier publications on the subject concern Shakespeare’s classical plays, which is why I have not dealt with them here. I have listed these publications in the Bibliography and Further Reading. M1004 BARKER PRE M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:39 am Page vii Preface vii Over the last decade or so it has been pleasing to see that this field of inquiry has expanded so that there now exists a considerable body of criticism on the relationship between warfare and the early modern stage. The work of Curtis Breight, Richard Courtney, Nick de Somogyi, Alan Shepard and Nina Taunton has been especially influential in the writing of this study. It is salutary to observe that one explanation for the increasing interest in the representation of warfare in historical writing is undoubtedly the experience critics have had of new and continuing military conflicts in their own times. Those at work in the field often express their awareness of the responsibility they have in writing about this area of human activity. Their research, like mine, is predicated on the actual (or imagined) death or injury of millions of men and women in a practice that continues to be thought of in some quarters as noble. Whilst the aesthetics of warfare clearly require critical attention, its victims deserve to be remembered as real people rather than mere subjects of academic enquiry. I should like to acknowledge the thoughtful contributions made to this study by those involved directly in a number of recent wars, either as civilian victims or as combatants. Some of those I spoke to had witnessed terrible acts of military violence and were sharing painful and inescapable memories. I have represented some of their recollections in an oblique way in parts of this book. The one person from this group whom I should like to name is Mr Stan Francis, who kindly shared his memories of people mentioned in the text. It is important to acknowledge the support of a number of other people, organisations and institutions. Having given many papers at universities, colleges and conferences in Europe and the United States, I should like to thank those who organised the events and those who listened and responded to my work. A grant from the Arts and Humanities Research Council enabled me to finish a number of projects and allowed me to make a start on this one. I am indebted to the helpful librarians at the University of Gloucestershire, the University of Winchester, the British Library and the Bodleian Library. Paola Pugliatti generously sent me a copy of the paper she gave on Renaissance militarism at the History and Memory conference of the Shakespeare in Europe organisation held at the Jagiellonian University in Kraków in November 2005. I am grateful to Jackie Jones and her colleagues at Edinburgh University Press for their assistance and to their anonymous readers who helped shape the project. My friendly colleagues at the University M1004 BARKER PRE M/UP.qxd viii 26/9/07 8:39 am Page viii war and nation in the theatre of shakespeare of Gloucestershire have been a great support – and looking further back, I am aware of how much I owe those who taught me at my universities in Scotland and Wales. The late David Goldwater, a much missed friend and comrade, encouraged me to write this book, but would have made a better job of it himself. My sister Pax, and Tim, Hannah and Tom have been very confident all the way through. I should like to acknowledge the following for their particular help and advice: Peter Barker, Hazel Bell, Nicola Gilmore, Monika Smialkowska, Ruth Willats and, as always, the Coille Bheag focus group. Simon Barker Cheltenham M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:37 am Page 1 Part I Introductory Worlds M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:37 am Page 2 M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:37 am Page 3 1 ‘KEEP IT DARK’ 1 Harvest time in a village in England, 1942. Raymond Peace and his friend Ronald Williams were on leave from their wartime duties with the Royal Air Force, staying for a while with the Williams family at the vicarage along the lane from the church where Ronald’s father had been the incumbent Anglican priest for some twenty years. It was a beautiful day, hazy with warmth, and the two friends decided to drive the few miles to the local market town. Unusually, and in breach of wartime regulations, they also decided to make the trip wearing civilian clothes. They had sufficient petrol, an eye-catching motorcar and were many miles from their airfields in the eastern counties. Leaving behind their uniforms probably meant they thought they could further distance themselves from the increasing strains of the war. It was a difficult time for them: they were pilots attached to different bomber squadrons and had been almost constantly occupied with that summer’s flying missions to continental Europe. In the summer of 1992 I met an elderly lady at her home in the village in question. We sat for a while in the kitchen of her perfect country cottage. She complained mildly about how the area had become ‘full of strangers’, commuting to nearby cities, but her eyes sparkled as she recalled earlier times; and she described vividly the impact the two airmen had made during their occasional wartime visits. Ray and Ronnie, she remembered, were ‘very good-looking chaps’ who had entertained the locals with their RAF slang and banter. They were also kind and considerate to everyone, most conspicuously to my own mother, Ray’s fifteen-year-old sister. Young Rosalind Peace also stayed for periods with the Williams family during the war. The Peace family lived in Coventry, and my mother had experienced the terrible destruction of the medieval city by German bombers in November 1940. Like many others, she lived in fear of further attacks and the Williams’ home in the Warwickshire countryside had become a place of safety and somewhere to heal.1 M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 4 26/9/07 8:37 am Page 4 war and nation in the theatre of shakespeare Arriving in town the two men parked their car in the centre and walked around the busy streets, smoking cigarettes and chatting, perhaps about their mutual interests in rugby, flying and the cinema. But in wartime Britain two healthy men in their twenties yet not in uniform drew considerable attention, and as they strolled past the theatre to the river a woman approached them, agitated and upset. Ambushing the two men, she made a sweeping gesture back towards the town, presumably meaning also to embrace the rolling countryside beyond and all the villages and cities and peoples of the nation and the far-flung Empire. Ray and Ronnie, she called out to bystanders, were ‘afraid to fight for their country’ and, as a sign of her contempt, she presented the two flyers with white feathers, the universal token of cowardice. Stratford-upon-Avon in the 1940s was not quite the tourist place it is today. Its importance as the birthplace of Shakespeare could still be balanced to an extent by its significant and visible role in the agricultural economy of the local area. Where there are now car parks and modern hotels there were still meadows and farmland. Yet in the mid-1920s, returning for the first time since before the Great War H. V. Morton had already observed what he thought of as traffic congestion, evidence in his opinion that the connection between the town and the playwright was by that time already a popular and international one: I drove between those well-loved Warwick hedges, through a perfect deathrattle of motor traffic, into Stratford. My old quiet Stratford was suffering from a rash of trippers. Charabancs from everywhere were piled up on the square; half the motor cars of the Midlands were either coming or going; and the hotel was full of long-legged girls from America, and sallow fathers and spectacled mothers. They gave me a bedroom called ‘Love’s Labour Lost’ [sic] – all the rooms in this hotel are Shakespeareanized – and, as it overlooked the street, I sat a while watching more Americans arrive and thinking how amused Shakespeare would have been.2 So if in the sweep of the woman’s hand, the town was in 1942 to stand for England, and England was to stand for Britain and the Empire, then the synecdoche was enriched by the fact that Stratford-uponAvon was inextricably linked to the name of William Shakespeare. Stratford was by no means isolated from the business of the war. Some government departments had been relocated there for the duration and military personnel were billeted in local hotels and in camps established in the surrounding villages. In the later stages of the war M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:37 am Page 5 ‘Keep it dark’ 5 these included a considerable number of American GIs and airmen. Stray German bombs fell in Maidenhead Road on one occasion and a plaque in Evesham Place commemorates the two navy air personnel who were consumed by fire when their plane crashed there. Other bombs fell in the vicinity of the town, but local people had heard a rumour that Hitler had said he would never intentionally bomb Stratford-upon-Avon because Shakespeare was part of German culture.3 Some of the town’s men and women either joined the armed services or took part in other war work, such as travelling to local cities to fight fires or helping those injured in the raids. Stratford people also laboured in the area’s munitions and armament factories. But there was other work to be done. Replacing the earlier theatre built in 1879 but almost entirely destroyed by fire in 1926, Elisabeth Scott’s Shakespeare Memorial Theatre had opened in 1932. The April to June Stratford season of 1942 saw productions in the new theatre of A Midsummer Night’s Dream, The Merchant of Venice, Hamlet, As You Like It, Macbeth, The Tempest, The Winter’s Tale and The Taming of the Shrew. Sheridan’s The School for Scandal was also performed during the season. This was an ambitious sequence and evidence of the Memorial Theatre’s commitment to sustaining as full a programme as possible in the face of wartime shortages and the absence of many actors and technicians called away to the war. Some of those in charge at the theatre were also ‘in the know’ about another possible disruption to the summer season. There were secret plans to evacuate Parliament to Stratford-upon-Avon in the event of an invasion. The House of Commons, which met almost daily throughout the war, would continue to sit for as long as possible using the public seating of the Memorial Theatre.4 This plan invites the fanciful image of Members of Parliament making a last-ditch stand against an invading army amid the paraphernalia of Shakespearean production. Although never executed, of course, the symbolism of the location might be seen as an intense reminder of the centrality of Shakespeare to the minds of some wartime planners, and the contingency is certainly a tribute to the facilities afforded by Scott’s design. The two airmen drove back to Ronnie’s family home in Temple Grafton, a village itself associated with Shakespeare because, according to one theory, it was where the playwright had been married in 1582.5 One can imagine them retelling the white feather incident at the vicarage that afternoon, just as it was to be retold in family circles across the years. According to my mother, the accusation of cowardice, although unwarranted, contained a paradoxical truth. M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 6 26/9/07 8:37 am Page 6 war and nation in the theatre of shakespeare She made no secret of the fact that by the summer of 1942 her brother was indeed ‘afraid to go to war’ in the sense that he had become fatigued and distressed by the frequent missions he was flying to bomb Germany and German-occupied territory. Raymond Peace’s many surviving letters from the 1930s and 1940s are a rich and powerful testimony to the love he had for his family and friends, and in particular his absolute devotion to his much younger sister. They also include vivid descriptions of what it felt like to fly in those still comparatively early years of aviation. For example, having been rested for a short while from his bombing duties, he wrote while on detachment to RAF Kinloss, near Forres, Scotland: As I mentioned earlier I flew to Ireland to take some people on Saturday & returned again on Sunday. Owing to weather we could not go over the hills & instead went all around the north of Scotland & down the coast (west) by the Isle of Skye, etc. It was a lovely trip in spite of rain showers, & I can say I have seen a lot of Scotland & the beautiful scenery. Actually it’s very rocky & bare in the north, but there must be some beautiful drives round about. It’s rather good for one’s geography. He writes well, in the idiom of the time. There are touching accounts of the routines of military life: long train journeys to a new base; the importance of letters and parcels from home; the indignities of daily life in wartime, first in a sergeants’ mess in the early part of the war, and later in the officers’ mess.6 It is a world of dances, the pictures and early nights storing up sleep ahead of missions. It is also a world in which comrades suddenly disappear. None of the letters contains anything remotely jingoistic, anti-German or boastful, although on one occasion, having ‘limped’ home across the sea on one engine, he does say that he and his crew planned to take their ‘revenge’ the following night. They had been caught by searchlights and anti-aircraft fire and had considered bailing out, but had been as afraid of the sea as they were of crashing. The letters contain what seems a surprising depth of detail about particular operations, including bombing destinations, accidents, lost planes and missing personnel. Writing to his parents and his sister on the 27 August 1942, Peace begins by noting that there had been renewed German raids in the Midlands: I have been rather worried about you recently because of news that B’ham & Coventry has [sic] been bombed. Please do take cover & if possible below ground level, & don’t watch what is happening for it is a foolish M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:37 am Page 7 ‘Keep it dark’ 7 entertainment & dangerous, especially if he starts machine gunning as is his wont. He is afraid for his family and, by this time, desperately afraid for himself. His letter concludes with an account of the dangers involved in his work, whether in the air or on the ground, during the day or at night: We have had a very hectic week, full of changes & unrest. It was impossible to carry on at the other place, no-one was getting any sleep & nerves were not too good. Dust and glass everywhere, the trees quite flat, etc., etc. Too near the coast you see. Fortunately I was over Germany the other night when they had 41⁄2 hours of it, in broad moonlight. I did not enjoy the daylight do about ten days ago. I had just landed, go outside the hangar, when the first one dropped [sic]. Three of us dodged back inside & got in a corner which they tried to hit it [sic]. Both the others were hurt, one died & I had only a scratch but it shook me up. Still, we’re OK here. In the margin of this letter, realising he has said too much about events, or even too much about his own fear, he scrawls in capitals: ‘KEEP IT DARK’. Studying the sequence of letters it seems clear that Peace, like his friend Williams, was in ever-increasing danger as missions became longer, more complex and more vulnerable to accident and enemy assault. Understatement and euphemism disguise his anxiety, but not entirely successfully. Reading the letters against recorded histories of the bombing missions in which Peace participated suggests that he found himself working (‘work’ was what he called his duties) very much against the statistical odds of survival. And in this context, his experience of this work was defined by anticipation of his own death. This is why the woman’s accusation in Stratford-upon-Avon had a ring of truth about it. By the late summer of 1942, Peace was ‘afraid to go to war’ but managed mostly to ‘keep it dark’ – just as he urged others to ‘keep dark’ those other kinds of detail about operational matters. My mother told me that by the late summer of 1942 her brother had developed an unsteady hand, which shook as he lit his cigarettes. He had seemed suddenly to grow older than his years and often lapsed into long silences. His letters reveal other evidence of his growing unease. His was by no means an uncommon response to wartime duty at home or abroad – in the air, on the land or at sea. Nor does such a response diminish the bravery of those who, despite the immense psychological strain, performed unselfish acts in the war against M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 8 26/9/07 8:37 am Page 8 war and nation in the theatre of shakespeare Nazism.7 Indeed, it somewhat enhances it. Yet central to this book are those responses and attitudes to war that are carefully ‘kept dark’ in order to perpetuate its orthodox narratives. War is such a constant in the way that humanity is constructed, defined and experienced that it seems a statement of the obvious to remind readers of its recurrent representation in a variety of cultural forms. The subject of this book is the representation of war in some of the literature of the late sixteenth and early seventeenth centuries. I shall be focusing mainly on texts produced for the public theatre of the period. However, since war is represented in a wide variety of fictional and non-fictional texts from this period, I shall also examine some examples of contemporary prose that the theatre’s audiences might also have had an interest in. These will include treatises discussing the theory and methodology of war, but also a prose fiction, Thomas Deloney’s The Gentle Craft, which contrasts with these military texts’ attitudes towards war.8 What these various forms of writing have in common is that, as far as we know, they were immensely popular at the time – the prose widely read and the drama widely seen. It is not my intention to deal specifically with the ‘Court’ literature of the period despite the fact that it too clearly contains representations of militarism, helping, for example, to shape the ideal aristocratic subject. There are representations of war in texts such as Baldesar Castiglione’s The Book of the Courtier, widely read in England, and Edmund Spenser’s The Faerie Queene, but my emphasis is on this more popular writing, designed to be read or performed, in which war was theorised and subjected to critical examination.9 REPRESENTING WAR It is not surprising that war is a common topic across a range of different types of popular writing in the early modern period. Over the centuries, in each new and repeated form of cultural representation, war inspires creative acts that occupy space within that form, alongside other seeming constants, such as love and desire, matters of spirituality and faith, or the endless conceptual quest for apparent absolutes like truth and beauty. It should be remembered that in the late sixteenth century, although it had evolved from earlier forms of drama, the publicly performed secular play was really an entirely fresh genre – one that worked best when performed in the innovative outdoor amphitheatres. The new form attracted poetic plays about M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:37 am Page 9 ‘Keep it dark’ 9 war. And the increasingly efficient printing presses turned out a conspicuous amount of prose fiction, non-fiction or a blend of the two for a readership seemingly keen to read of earlier battles, or of how to win battles, or even perhaps of how to avoid them. Writing and warfare have had a long relationship with each other, but one might ideally want to resist, as an explanation for this, a concept as general as ‘the inevitability of war’ as a condition of ‘humanity’. However, it would be hard to challenge the consistent scope that war offers as a source for narratives of what it is like to ‘experience’ being subject to such a generalised if artificial concept as ‘humanity’. Taking a traditional (i.e. Western) approach, we can see that the early classical canon of stories from the societies that evolved in and around the Mediterranean is almost entirely bound up with accounts of military conflict. As the Greek theatre evolved as a new form of cultural expression, it found itself at once working through and retelling the blood-drenched legends of earlier times. I shall return later to Homer as a kind of origin for this phenomenon. At this stage I should like to emphasise a wider articulation that can be seen to develop between warfare and new cultural forms. Homer’s stories found a place in the new theatres of the ancients. Shakespeare and his contemporaries, in the new theatres of the Renaissance, rehearsed not only the war stories of the classical period, but also dramatised the war-torn chronicles of their own recent history. An important point can be made about this sequencing, one that links Ancient Greece to the early modern period, and the early modern period to our own. The ideological force of this dramatisation of earlier dramatic conflicts surely affected subsequent attitudes to war just as, say, a representation of the experiences of some Second World War airmen, forged in the compelling post-war cinematic narratives of the RAF campaign, has resonated down the years. If this is the case, then the influence might be said to be strongest when there is a new or relatively new kind of cultural form through which that influence can be channelled. Whilst there are many forms of written and graphic representations of the war in the air, it was in the cinema that the campaign was most widely re-fought for posterity, ‘keeping dark’ some elements of the experience of war and reshaping others, as tragedy or even as comedy. The cinema – a kind of electric theatre – retold the Second World War in a way that is analogous to the ancient theatre’s retelling of Homeric myths. As far as the RAF was concerned, films such as The Dambusters (1954), Reach for the Sky (1956), 633 Squadron (1964) and The Battle of Britain (1969) M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 10 26/9/07 8:37 am Page 10 war and nation in the theatre of shakespeare produced a narrative of the conflict that helped define and consolidate the relationship between war and nation.10 War is thus mediated for those who come later by a mixture of overlapping narratives that influence each other and determine, or at least sway, attitudes towards subsequent wars. In the case of the Second World War there are many general written histories. Examples from Britain range from Winston Churchill’s six-volume account to more recent interpretations, such as Joanna Bourke’s The Second World War: a People’s History.11 There are also autobiographical accounts by various participants, usually those in charge, which seek to describe the conflict through the eyes of individual witnesses.12 Fictional prose based on the Second World War is an ever-expanding canon, and one with a complex aesthetic history that has to embrace everything from the serious novel to comics, aimed at school children, that were so pervasive in the cultural environment of the decades following the war.13 Yet it is cinematic fiction, including those films about the RAF mentioned above, that has most powerfully reworked the war for succeeding generations. Such films have sat alongside documentary accounts, such as Jeremy Issacs’ The World at War, although occasionally the two forms have been fused, when fictional accounts have used documentary footage. The Longest Day (1962) and The Battle of Britain included such wartime cinematography in order to imply a high level of verisimilitude.14 Advanced cinematic technology has been used in fictional accounts of the war in order to attempt to present a more ‘realistic’ impression of ‘what it was like to fight’ than actual footage allows, most notably in the opening sequence of Stephen Spielberg’s Saving Private Ryan (1998). Alongside these carefully designed narratives exist less formal accounts of war: personal, often familial, usually anecdotal and fragmented, and with no greater claim to an objective truth than those of printed or celluloid fiction. It is to the credit of organisations such as the Imperial War Museum and the BBC that such accounts have been given of late (and before it is too late, of course) considerably more prominence than in the past, and are now being preserved in electronic form. There is a clear implication that what is on offer here extends, and at least occasionally counters, both the more ‘official’ histories and the fiction produced in the immediate aftermath of the war.15 These stories told among friends and within families, these marginal narratives that are not necessarily supported by documentary evidence, belong to a more casual historiography. They have a special importance as they lie somewhat beyond the more official M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:37 am Page 11 ‘Keep it dark’ 11 accounts; but they have to be seen in relation to the adjacent narratives of remembrance and ceremony where past campaigns feed into continuing displays of militarism in times of peace. I shall argue later that the influence of fiction on these displays is paramount to their role in maintaining images of warfare that do little to forestall notions of the inevitability of further war.16 My handed-down account of Peace and Williams, their afternoon in Stratford-upon-Avon and Peace’s response to war, is in itself a story – difficult to prove as absolute fact – but nonetheless resonant for some who hear it. It is a response that contests the dominant image of the RAF pilot as more or less ‘fearless’ without in any way detracting from the commitment Peace and Williams had to their duty – their ‘work’ in the war against Nazi aggression. It may seem odd to have started a book about the representation of war in the literature of the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries with this intimate family story from the Second World War. Yet the time, the place and the event offer a particular set of conjunctions with some of the book’s main themes. Part of the aim of the book is to discuss the influence of narratives of war upon national identity, so it is worth stating that it seems impossible to underestimate the importance of the Second World War (and its stories) in the development of the post-war British state and its narratives of identity. It is from within this war-formed state that one looks back at its political and cultural evolution for points of connection across the centuries. NARRATIVES AND CONNECTIONS Thinking about these narratives of war it is worth noting the obvious irony that a man named ‘Peace’ had to make his work the business of war. Raymond Peace was apprenticed to the RAF at Cranwell in 1932 as a specialist instrument mechanic involved in the production of the sophisticated equipment on which modern aviation increasingly depended. Like many young men and women of his time he was an enthusiast for all aspects of flying, yet his ambitions were initially linked to his trade, and his trade was determined by his background and the promising solidity of the professional opportunities offered by engineering in the English Midlands. It was the threat of war in the later 1930s that led Peace to be trained as a pilot and assume the kind of identity revealed in family memories and through his correspondence. War was not his ‘natural’ element any more than the air was, M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 12 26/9/07 8:37 am Page 12 war and nation in the theatre of shakespeare yet he took to the new work in a dutiful way and at the same time fell in love with the sensations and aesthetics of flying. A number of issues proceed from this unexpected opportunity that will be developed in the historical scope of this book. The first is the fundamental question that is widely considered so absurdly innocent that it is often restricted to the queries of children. Alternatively, it is dismissed along with the other slogans of anti-war activists and their over-idealistic (perhaps over-‘intellectual’) theorists. The question ‘Why war?’ has been raised periodically over the centuries and has produced a range of responses.17 Whether the answer lies in some kind of genetic impulse, an enjoyment of war, the excesses of masculinity, greed, colonialism, economic competition or a mixture of these, less time has been spent on the question itself than on the procedures and aftermath of war. A skilled, intelligent, trainee aviation engineer who doted on his family and whose principal political interests were, like his enemy’s, mostly shaped by the governments endorsed by his parents, was intensively trained and quickly promoted to the controls of a Halifax bomber. This he flew across the sea to drop explosives onto German cities just as similarly promoted young Germans were flying in the other direction to bomb British cities. His contribution helped destroy the grip of European fascism and kept most members of succeeding European generations out of further such large-scale wars, if not entirely out of uniform and further conflict. Yet the relatively comforting if complex tenets of the just war still obscure the fundamental question of why human beings should settle their disagreements in this way. The question is put aside, or belittled, or narrowed to fit the mouths of conscientious objectors – individuals at best treated ambivalently, but often seen as morally perverse as they lie beyond the common cause. Yet this fundamental question did arise, and was not easily dismissed during the period that this volume will address. It was discussed in the writing of those involved in the practice of war – and those who negotiated the shape of political practice in relation to the Reformation and the emerging British nation. And, in a questioning and unsettling way, the issue can be traced in the work of those writing fiction in the late sixteenth and early seventeenth centuries, in both popular prose and in poetry written for the stage. In other words, the question that those free from war on the scale of 1914–18 or 1939–45 might ask of the generations that fought those wars belongs to a fundamental agenda that was much more evident and critical to those who thought about war in the early modern period. M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:37 am Page 13 ‘Keep it dark’ 13 Of primary importance in thinking about the causes and results of war is the role of religion. Ray Peace and Ronnie Williams set out that afternoon in 1942 from the vicarage attached to the Anglican Church of St Andrews, Temple Grafton.18 Nothing may have seemed strange or disturbing to them or their families about the connections between their work and this location. Indeed, the church and its services surely offered to these individuals, and countless others in the war, a degree of comfort and security.19 Prayers for those engaged in the fighting were offered in the Anglican Church and in the congregations of many other denominations and faiths. As in most wars, the Church sanctioned the killing in the name of necessity and as a response to evil. If there were expressions of doubt, they were mainly confined to those objectors whose opinions were often met by scorn (and white feathers). Most churches stood by the campaign, congregations prayed for the combatants and received the bodies of the dead with solemn ceremony that is almost always reserved for the ‘fallen’ in military conflicts around the world.20 In terms of the much wider history of war and its representation in a variety of cultural forms, the association between war and religion is an intimate one. In the private realm of individual faith and redemption, and in the public realm of liturgy, the just war and the remembering of the dead, there is often at stake some kind of mediation of religious doctrine. An issue to the fore in this book is the way that expressions of Christianity, the principal faith system of the people of the period under examination, evolved in order to accommodate the new kinds of war that can be found discussed in early modern literature and drama. The period saw considerable anxiety about the inconsistency between Christ’s teachings and the practice of war. Yet it also saw uncertainty swept away and the matter pretty much settled for centuries to come with any doubts smothered, or ‘kept dark’, in the relativist values and conditional philosophies of the just war. Another factor linking Ray Peace to the arguments of early modern commentaries on war is that of national identity. In Stratford-uponAvon in 1942, his accuser was able to evoke a clear sense of the relationship between his supposed cowardice and his duty towards the modern concept of the nation (and Empire), symbolised by the town itself and, presumably, by its famous theatre. Peace and Williams received their white feathers not because they were non-combatants but because they were not wearing uniforms of the state. In the early modern period, such a concept of the state was still in the earliest M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 14 26/9/07 8:37 am Page 14 war and nation in the theatre of shakespeare stages of its development, and clearly the relationship between militarism and the evolution of the state was a close one, played out in the formal political discourse of the time but also dramatised on the contemporary stage. While it is true that Peace and Williams fought in a war against fascism, it is likely that their principal justification for the conflict and their part in it was the defence of an established twentieth-century concept of nation that was, in the early modern period, still being cultivated. Moreover, the relationship between the early modern ‘state’ and its military was still very unclear. In 1942 civilian conscription to the forces was a given, with the exception of the ‘reserved occupations’.21 In the early modern period the idea of the ‘civilian soldier’, which I shall return to, was an ideal to some commentators but a violation of a vision of militarism to others. Some early modern writers, as we shall see, advocated a national standing army (as opposed to the more or less private armies of the medieval period), while others preferred a militia of citizens in constant preparedness for war. What seemed a conventional relationship between the state and the citizen in the 1940s was, then, one that was carefully forged in the early modern period. Amid conflicting arguments about militarism, the state and the subject – seen developing in a dialectical relationship with one another – the early modern period fostered the conditions for the militarised nationalism of modernity. Another issue that this volume will address is the relationship between warfare and gender. Throughout modern history the militarised individual has stood for a particular kind of idealised masculinity. This may well have been part of what was at stake in Stratford in the summer of 1942. Peace and Williams, dressed in civilian clothes, adhered to a certain standard that would, given the assumptions of the period, have been aesthetically and socially pleasing in the opening months of 1939. They were well-dressed, ‘goodlooking chaps’ with their cigarettes, easy banter and smart motorcar. Their manner came from a combination of their education, their awareness of their social standing, an addiction to the cinema and a complex set of mores to do with their sexuality. Yet in 1942, to be out of uniform somehow reduced their masculinity, transforming their identity in a way that epitomises a relationship between militarism and gender which draws on a long history. It might also be said that the donning of uniform encourages the individual to relegate subjective values and instincts (including fear) in the name of a wider, corporate set of values and responses. This important issue, to do with M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:37 am Page 15 ‘Keep it dark’ 15 the relations between the individual subject and the collective, and especially perceptions of these relations in terms of concepts of masculinity, were to the fore in arguments about militarism in the early modern period. Those who had an interest in the future of militarism hotly contested such issues in arguments about drill, dress and discipline. Once ‘settled’ they were played out by generations of military personnel across the centuries. What might be said to have been ‘kept dark’ in this long history is that which can be glimpsed in the arguments over militarism and gender in the early modern period. There is evidence in the literature of a clear refusal of the codes of masculinity and militarism that were to come to dominate, and this usually depended upon a parallel set of arguments about the relationship between women and war. Women have always been involved in the business of war, usually as victims, or guardians of the ‘home front’, rather than as perpetrators.22 More than anything, their role has been defined by their grief in the face of the loss of their menfolk. Non-fictional military narratives rarely dwell on the involvement of women in the extensive camp infrastructures that for centuries determined the success or failure of armies whose male combatants were engaged (more ‘heroically’) a little distance away on the field of battle itself. However, a new emphasis developed in the relationship between militarism and gender in the twentieth century. This was due in part to the increasing technical sophistication of warfare, which led, for example, to women’s direct involvement in wartime industrial production. Women were also more formally organised for nursing duties than they had been in the nineteenth century and were increasingly recruited for other kinds of uniformed operational duties. Similarly, the bombing of civilians placed women at the heart of large-scale modern warfare. There is, of course, a fundamental link between these strategic and technical initiatives and the struggle of women for equal rights and self-determination. Until recently in most of the armed forces of the West, women were restricted, in theory if not in reality, to what were considered ‘suitable’ duties away from front-line action. The ideal military subject remained irreducibly defined as ‘masculine’. The controversy attracted by modern challenges to this concept of the fighting soldier (as a certain kind of male heterosexual) shows just how entrenched the ideal of the soldier had become in the state armies of the West over the centuries. The fact that the debate over women and active service continues in a twenty-first-century world of female M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 16 26/9/07 8:37 am Page 16 war and nation in the theatre of shakespeare firefighters, astronauts and political leaders (who themselves send men to war) shows something of the uniqueness and sensitivity of the ideological relations between gender and warfare.23 It also reveals the power and entrenched nature of the corporeal identity of the ideal military subject which has provided the reference point for that debate. This book seeks to examine the basis of the ‘naturalised’ soldier of modernity by suggesting that the history of the relationship between gender and militarism has, in fact, often been an inherently unstable one, particularly in the late sixteenth and early seventeenth centuries. Modern anxieties over women at the front, or gay men in the ranks, echo the terms of an historical discourse that has sought, often with considerable difficulty, to construct and maintain an ‘obvious’ (and therefore naturalised) ideal of the masculine military soldier. At the same time, given the equation between the (‘private’) military subject and the larger military body (of the public or state army), it is a discourse that necessarily theorises the purpose of war itself. Armies require an identity, which is dictated by clear purpose – and a questioning of that purpose, linked to questions of gender, has had severe implications for those larger social formations that the military institutions claim to represent. The relationship between women and war is a sensitive one even in modern Britain. It was only after a long campaign, for example, that the wartime experiences of women were specifically recognised by the erection of a monument in Whitehall, that most symbolic of locations where an act of remembrance takes place each November on the nearest Sunday to Armistice Day. The Queen unveiled John Mills’ bronze sculpture, The Memorial to the Women of World War II, in July 2005. Some had thought it would detract from the nearby Cenotaph to the ‘Glorious Dead of 1914–1919’, and the exact distance between the two memorials was finally settled (at a respectful 53 metres) only after considerable debate. Others thought the seventeen sets of clothing and uniforms, symbolic of the different jobs taken on by women in the war (many perceived as ‘men’s jobs’), made the monument too cluttered or ordinary compared to the simple lines of the Cenotaph itself. Many disliked the way that the project had been so determinedly backed by the women gunners of the ‘Ack-Ack’ Command of the Royal Artillery Association, women who had fired guns during the war. One suspects that an underlying objection was that the sculpture announced what is often kept dark, particularly at the end of a period of war. On the one hand, the design of the M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:37 am Page 17 ‘Keep it dark’ 17 monument reminds the observer that there was nothing ever exclusively male about the occupations taken on by women in times of war.24 On the other, the sculpture’s preoccupation with clothing perhaps shows that the mantle of war is one that is assumed most outwardly in terms of uniform.25 Both women and men ‘dress for war’ and are made uniform by war’s uniforms – an act that is central to the arguments about warfare that this book will address. Modern, (uniformed) warfare grew from discussions about identity, common purpose (and dress) that were held over and over again in the pages of Renaissance prose and on the stages of Renaissance theatre. This study will also examine matters of technology, which were as central to the development of warfare in the early modern period as they have become to the debate about military strategy in more recent periods. Military development in the early period was in many ways defined by advances in ballistics. The same is true of developments since the Second World War, such as (so-called) ‘smart’ missiles and bombs, considered somehow more humane because of their claimed potential to avoid civilian casualties. Raymond Peace enthused about aviation rather than warfare. As an apprentice in the highly skilled and specialist field of aircraft engineering he would have witnessed the rapid developments that were taking place in this and other branches of technology during the 1930s. He was well placed to consider the way that warfare accelerates developments in technology and how that technology enhances warfare’s methodologies. Aviation, indeed, offers an extreme example of this equation. Many people living in Stratford-upon-Avon in the summer of 1942 would have remembered a time before aeroplanes. It was not yet forty years since the first powered flight.26 Those living in the ruins of nearby Coventry might have thought about the way that technology brought them aerial bombardment so soon, but so surely, within the space of just a few decades of the invention of the aeroplane and the dirigible.27 For centuries people had dreamt of flying, bound the dream into their myths and celebrated birds in their religions. Then came the hot air balloon, the airship, the First World War ‘ace’, the anti-aircraft gun, bombers and the domestic air-raid shelter. Ray Peace and Ronnie Williams were to the fore in the race that utilised human ingenuity in the pursuit of warfare. The uniforms they wore bore winged insignia representing a fulfilment of the dream of their ancestors, and the machines they flew embodied a marshalling of the very latest technology in terms of both the explosives they dropped and the means of transporting them to the enemy. In the late summer of 1942 and M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 18 26/9/07 8:37 am Page 18 war and nation in the theatre of shakespeare particularly in a town so near to Coventry, they might have been hailed as heroes rather than cowards on the strength of their command of this technology, but only if they had they been wearing those uniforms. AFTERMATH AND REPUTATION The remaining months of 1942 were something of a turning point in the war. Prime Minister Churchill celebrated the success at El Alamein in November as ‘the turning of “the Hinge of Fate” ’, after which ‘we never had a defeat’.28 In the East the Soviet Army and people held out against the Germans at Stalingrad and began to turn the tide against them over the Christmas and New Year period. This effort and the Americans’ firm involvement in the European sphere of the conflict meant that Britain no longer ‘stood alone’ as it had during the early years of the war. By this time the airmen described by Churchill as ‘The Few’ who had fought in the Battle of Britain two years earlier were celebrated, as they still are, for their decisive campaign on behalf of an isolated nation. Their efforts had a symbolic role in maintaining morale during the Blitz and, arguably, in defining a sense of ‘Britishness’ ever since.29 Their exploits were lovingly cultivated in a variety of media, and especially in the cinema, in the years following the war.30 In terms of the technology involved, their aircraft, and especially the Spitfire, became iconic reminders of a particular kind of patriotic heroism and resistance, and still make an appearance at times of national remembrance and celebration. The airmen, many of whom were not actually British, enjoy an equally secure reputation.31 Yet this apparently seamless continuity between past and present, between fighting machinery and those who operated it, is interrupted when close consideration is given to the post-war reputation enjoyed by Peace, Williams and their comrades in Bomber Command. By comparison with that cultivated for the Battle of Britain pilots, the bombers’ legacy has been kept rather in the dark. It is not that they were simply out-dazzled by the fighter pilots; and certainly their machines are as well known as those of the fighter pilots, carefully preserved in museums, and still occasionally flown.32 Rather, it is the scale and nature of the ‘work’ itself. Mass bombing, especially following the raid on Dresden in 1945 with its dreadful civilian death toll, has never sat easily in the historical canons of the Second World War.33 Air Chief Marshal Harris, in overall charge of the bombing M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:37 am Page 19 ‘Keep it dark’ 19 operations, has a reputation that seems somewhat awkward by comparison with the other wartime leaders – and certainly, with the conspicuous exception of The Dambusters, the few films about bombing were never as popular as those about the Battle of Britain.34 There is still occasional speculation about the moral perspective of those involved in developing the bombing strategy. The subject arises in accounts of the war’s overall moral compass, finding a disturbing place even in the narratives attached to the Holocaust because, like other Nazi leaders, Rudolf Hoess, the commandant at Auschwitz, attempted to rationalise his own activities by equating them with the aerial bombing. Laurence Rees has remarked that: despite all the attempts to differentiate the two methods of killing, the false comparison between them made by Hoess and other Nazis still remains emotionally disturbing. One reason is that it is well known that there was disquiet about the policy of bombing German cities inside the Allied leadership – not least, towards the end of the war, from Churchill himself. And the revelation in recent years that in spring 1945 one Allied criterion used in the process of deciding which German cities and towns to target was their ‘burnability’, something that helped lead to the targeting of medieval cities like Würzburg, only adds to the sense of unease.35 Thus Raymond Peace and Ronald Williams were marching towards a rather uncertain place in military history. This ambivalence about certain aspects of militarism may seem a modern condition, yet it is in fact a prominent feature of early modern debate about warfare, the technology of warfare and those involved with warfare as participants (willing or unwilling) or as its advocates. It might be said that it was the particular conjunction of advances in technology and a rash of treatises about the ethics of war in the early modern period that produced the terms under which some could later cast doubt on the morality of bombing in the Second World War. And if some ex-bombers felt understandably rather indignant about the half-heartedness of their nation’s post-war gratitude, then this too is absolutely resonant with the situation recorded on behalf of soldiers by those writing about war in the late sixteenth and early seventeenth centuries. Peace and Williams may have returned to Temple Grafton with their eyes firmly fixed on their next missions, but they unknowingly took with them a long history of scepticism about certain kinds of wartime work. There is, then, an historical narrative that exists alongside the more mainstream ones of war as a necessary evil. It includes disgust at war’s M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 20 26/9/07 8:37 am Page 20 war and nation in the theatre of shakespeare excesses and a contradictory set of values that simultaneously praises and condemns the warrior. It promotes and justifies war, and then pities its victims. It sees war as a badge of national identity and cohesion, but at the same time as a wasteful failure of diplomacy. It likes the idea of the manly soldier and military discipline, but it neglects its veterans. That this history is somewhat obscured, or ‘kept dark’ does not reduce its validity. When glimpsed, it seems important since it profoundly disturbs a sense of the inevitability of our warlike condition. My argument in this book is that this history is especially illuminated in literature, and in terms of the origins of modern warfare, in the theatre of Shakespeare and his contemporaries. Notes 1. Coventry was home to such factories as Armstrong Whitworth, Darnlier, Dunlop and Humber. German bombers targeted the city in a sequence of raids from June 1940 to August 1942 and official figures state that 1,236 people were killed. The ferocity of one particular raid gave rise to the term ‘Coventrated’ as almost 5,000 homes, many public buildings and three-quarters of the city’s factories were damaged by bombs, mines and firestorms in a single night. ‘Operation Moonlight Sonata’ began in the early evening of 14 November 1940 and lasted for over ten hours. Five hundred German aeroplanes set off from France to bomb the city, partly, it was said, in revenge for the RAF’s bombing of Munich on 8 November. 2. H. V. Morton [1927] (2006), In Search of England, London: Methuen, p. 248. 3. Stratford-upon-Avon’s proximity to major industrial cities meant that its citizens were very aware of the mass bombing in the region as planes flew near the town. The fires from ‘Operation Moonlight Sonata’ could be seen by incoming bombers from 150 miles way. There were many stray bombs from these raids. A 500 lb bomb was discovered and made safe in Henley-in-Arden as recently as 1998. 4. See www.thepressgallery.org.uk. 5. More properly, Temple Grafton is associated with ‘Wm Shaxpere’, who is named in the Latin Episcopal register at Worcester as being granted a licence to marry ‘Annam Whateley’ of Temple Grafton. The next entry records the marriage bond between a ‘William Shagspere’ and ‘Anne Hathwey’ of Stratford. These entries, probably as carelessly done as adjacent ones are, have produced reams of speculation over Shakespeare’s sexual and matrimonial history. The inhabitants of present-day Temple Grafton, and especially those running the Blue Boar Inn, perpetuate the idea that Shakespeare was married in the village in 1582. M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:37 am Page 21 ‘Keep it dark’ 21 6. By comparison with the other services, there was less of a distinction between ranks. An aircraft captain could be a sergeant and his second pilot a pilot officer, depending on their experience. Raymond Peace had started with ‘Boy Service’, graduated to other ranks and was then commissioned, so he was not ‘naturally’ an officer. 7. I am aware that there are varied interpretations of causes of the Second World War involving the inadequacy of the settlement of the 1914–18 conflict, imperial ambition and 1930s economic conditions, yet these are also explanations for the rise of fascism. 8. Thomas Deloney [1597/8] (2007), The Gentle Craft, ed. Simon Barker, Burlington, VT and Aldershot: Ashgate. 9. See Daniel Javitch’s review of the reception of The Book of the Courtier in his 2002 edition, New York: Norton, Introduction. 10. In many ways these films simply rehearsed the spirit of such patriotic wartime productions as The First of the Few, One of Our Aircraft is Missing and Mrs. Miniver (all 1942) and the Pathé and Movietone news coverage shown alongside them. 11. Winston S. Churchill (1948–54), The Second World War, 6 vols, London: Cassell; Joanna Bourke (2001), The Second World War: A People’s History, Oxford: Oxford University Press. Bourke’s work on warfare in the twentieth century raises issues about the representation of war and its motivations and practices that complement those I am addressing in the early modern period. See especially Bourke (1996), Dismembering the Male, London: Reaktion Books; and Bourke (1999), An Intimate History of Killing, London: Granta. 12. See, for example, Geoffrey Leonard Cheshire (1961), The Face of Victory, London: Hutchinson; and Guy Gibson [1948] (1986), Enemy Coast Ahead, Manchester: Crécy Publishing. 13. Examples include: Hotspur, 1959–81 (formerly a story paper first published in 1933); Valiant, 1962–76; Hornet, 1963–75; Hurricane, 1964–65. 14. See, for example, The World at War (1973–4), produced for Thames Television by Jeremy Isaacs. 15. Examples include the Imperial War Museum’s initiative, Their Past Your Future, and the BBC’s WW2 People’s War project. 16. I shall return to this point, but an example of the phenomenon would be the way that the theme music of The Dambusters can be heard at twentyfirst-century military parades. 17. Of Sigmund Freud’s many writings on war the most compelling for me remains his Thoughts for the Times on War and Death (1915). See also Jacqueline Rose (1993), Why War?, Oxford: Blackwell. More historical texts include Sun Tzu’s sixth-century bc The Art of War, and Carl von Clausewitz’s On War [1832] (1908). For the influence of early military strategists on modern warfare, see Kenneth N. Waltz, Man, the State and M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 22 18. 19. 20. 21. 22. 23. 24. 25. 26. 27. 28. 29. 30. 31. 26/9/07 8:37 am Page 22 war and nation in the theatre of shakespeare War (2001), second revised edition, New York: Columbia University Press. The house along the lane from the church is now privately owned but called ‘The Old Vicarage’. Ronnie’s father, Sidney Bertram Williams, was the vicar of Temple Grafton from 1922 to 1947 (with Benton from 1945). Peace’s letters reveal that he often attended church services in the villages and towns near the bases on which he served. Through its association with the Crusades, of course, Temple Grafton has a long connection with military conflict. White feathers were often received by men involved in reserved occupations which included, in the Midlands, those involved in engineering and munitions production. Without the most common experience for women as victims of war has been the use of rape and other forms of physical assault by men. This was, of course, also the case in Elizabethan England where a female monarch directed men to war. The clothing on the monument includes uniforms, but also the working garments of the trades previously thought of as exclusively the province of men. I am aware that there are some kinds of ‘soldiers’ who do not wear uniforms (guerrillas, partisans, terrorists), but the history of the development of the military uniform fairly neatly coincides with the history of state armies. The first powered flight by Orville and Wilbur Wright took place on 17 December 1903. The first British military airship, the Null Secundus I, took to the air in October 1907. Churchill, The Second World War, Vol. 4, p. 487. Churchill’s notion of ‘The Few’ was undoubtedly inspired by the St Crispin’s day speech in Shakespeare’s Henry V. Of the 2,927 allied pilots who took part in the Battle of Britain, 510 were killed. Channel Four’s film The Few (2005) demystified the assumption that the Battle of Britain pilots were uniformly of one class, noting that in preparing for war the RAF had trained men from a range of backgrounds. The Battle of Britain was fought not only by British flyers but also pilots from Poland and Czechoslovakia, Australia, New Zealand, South Africa and Canada. There were a few volunteers from the United States, including Billy Fiske, whose story is being filmed for release in 2008. The film The Few stars Tom Cruise and is based on a book by Alex Kershaw (2006), The Few: The American Knights of the Air Who Risked Everything to Fight in the Battle of Britain, Cambridge, MA: Da Capo Press. The film’s historical content has been described by Bill Bond of the Battle of Britain Historical Association as ‘a load of bloody rubbish’. See M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:37 am Page 23 ‘Keep it dark’ 32. 33. 34. 35. 23 ‘Hollywood Updates History of Battle of Britain’ in The Independent, 11 April 2004. Miniature replicas were assembled by thousands of post-war children in the form of plastic kits. See Jarrod Cotter (2005), Living Lancasters: Keeping the Legend Alive, Stroud: Sutton. This is partly because the bombing of Dresden has been seen as simply revenge for Coventry and the Blitz. For recent discussions about the morality of the bombing, see Paul Addison and Jeremy Crang (eds) (2006), Firestorm: the Bombing of Dresden: 1945, London: Pimlico; and A. C. Grayling (2006), Among the Dead Cities: Was the Allied Bombing of Civilians in World War II a Necessity or a Crime?, London: Bloomsbury. The exception is the popular The Dambusters of 1954, which underplays the fact that 1,294 people were killed during the raids, and the much later film about American bombers, Memphis Belle (1990). A new version of The Dambusters is currently in production, directed by Peter Jackson. Laurence Rees (2005), Auschwitz: the Nazis and the ‘Final Solution’, London: BBC Books, p. 367. M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:37 am Page 24 2 IN THEATRE 1 Whether it was due to Hitler’s desire to preserve the town because of the importance of Shakespeare to German culture or simply because of its military and economic insignificance, Stratford-upon-Avon remained comparatively peaceful and safe throughout the years of the war. The presence of military personnel and government officials, stray bombs, crashed aircraft and the employment of its citizens in nearby factories kept the war very much alive in the consciousness of the townspeople, yet there was very little direct threat. Indeed, the town was actually something of a vantage point from which to witness the destruction of the industrial cities of the English Midlands. With its increasingly cultivated Shakespearean associations, its residual rural aspect and its English charm as a town symbolically situated at the ‘Heart of England’, Stratford was geographically and ideologically unique as a place from which to observe the potential destruction of the values it had come to represent. This role invites speculation on the long-established metaphorical connection between the theatre (as a place of action and observation) and warfare in general. War is commonly thought of as ‘theatre’ (as in ‘a theatre of war’) and those involved in military activity speak of being ‘in theatre’ when they are transferred from the periphery to the centre of a conflict – where there is an actual ‘engagement’ with an enemy. Similarly, battles are ‘staged’, soldiers belong to ‘companies’ and go on ‘tours’ of duty, and hostilities are seen as ‘action’. The ‘act’ of war steals from the theatre a complex of images, many of which operate, in the general lexicon of warfare, as euphemisms that distance participants and observers from its brutality. Similarly, the apparatus of military organisation depends upon a range of theatrical devices in its elaborate ceremony. There is clearly something essentially dramatic about the military parade, with its formal roles, rituals and routines, its speaking and non-speaking parts, its music, its colour and its elaborate props – as well, of course, as the costumes worn by its participants. If the relationship between M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:37 am Page 25 In Theatre 25 war and the theatre sees the former adopting the devices and apparatus of the latter, then this is a phenomenon that becomes particularly apparent in military circles in the age of Shakespeare and his contemporaries. This relationship can, however, be seen as an equation, and this book sets out to examine what the theatre and its audiences can potentially ‘give back’ to the wider stages of warfare in a questioning, even subversive, way. Returning briefly to the Stratford-upon-Avon of 1942, one looks at the list of plays staged at the Memorial Theatre for some welcome distraction for audiences preoccupied by a war that had been raging across Europe for some three years. Shakespeare’s A Midsummer Night’s Dream and Sheridan’s The School for Scandal may have done the trick, the one ‘otherworldly’ and the other something of an abstraction in terms of its play upon social manners of a bygone age. But then you recall the anti-Semitism of The School for Scandal and think again. The Taming of the Shrew, with its discussion of gender roles, might have appealed to an audience that would almost inevitably have included women undertaking wartime duties that challenged the fixed nature of the relationship between gender and work. One hopes that these and other plays that summer were, if nothing else, a source of laughter for audiences seeking entertainment for a while away from the hardships of war. It is unlikely that those in charge at the theatre would have wanted to shape their productions towards the immediate concerns of the war as G. R. Wilson Knight had done with This Sceptred Isle at the Westminster Theatre in London in 1941.1 Yet in 1942 the Stratford season included three plays that may well have resonated in an immediate way with wartime audiences. Hamlet is there, a play that starts in an atmosphere of wartime paranoia and ends with a vision of a military funeral and acts of remembrance. Macbeth begins with a gruesome image of the business of war and moves through battles and hand-to-hand combat that might have called to mind the actual experiences of some in the audience. And The Merchant of Venice evokes something of the kind of racial alienation that characterised the rise to power of the Nazi enemy itself. It has often been remarked upon by critics that this is a play whose reputation was altered for all time because of the wartime atrocities against the Jews, and it is interesting to speculate about its reception at Stratford in 1942. What the audience brings to the theatre in terms of its critical intelligence and cultural contexts and what the theatre then brings to war in terms of illuminating that which is ‘kept dark’ in those cultural contexts is central to this study. M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26 26/9/07 8:37 am Page 26 war and nation in the theatre of shakespeare Stratford-upon-Avon today seems to function for many as a kind of seaside resort with the river’s banks a beach for landlocked Midlanders. A mixture of people come and go throughout the year. Although navigating the semiotics of the various attractions is probably made easier by a knowledge of Shakespeare’s life and works it is possible to enjoy a day in Stratford even if you have been ‘put off’ Shakespeare at school. Even a Marlovian can have fun here. In other words, despite the views of some observers, a visit to Stratford-uponAvon is not the all-encompassing, hermetically sealed experience of, say, Disneyland. Nor is it really a kind of secular pilgrimage, although admittedly many of the attractions have been grafted onto the central association with Shakespeare just as in medieval pilgrimages secular appetites were catered for alongside spiritual ones. Those visiting the theatre and/or the town have varying degrees of association with Shakespeare, from the visiting scholar to the weekend punter. In the years between the wars, however, there was more at stake for some observers in the relationship between Stratford, Shakespeare and what is now called ‘the Shakespeare industry’. The concern was with the qualitative nature of the visitor’s participation. H. V. Morton wistfully remembered the Stratford of before the Great War ‘as a quiet little heaven where it was always May, with the nightingales shaking silver in the dark trees at night and the Avon mooning under Hugh of Clopton’s grand old bridge’: There was Mr Frank Benson – as he was in those days – the local deity, seen often in swift and god-like transit on a decrepit bicycle, the high priest of the Stratford Festival. I remember him waving his arms at me in a storeroom hung with hams, which he used as an office, and telling me, as I sat worshipping him from a sugar crate, that only through Stratford, the common meeting-place of the English-speaking world, could we heal the pains of Industrialism and make England happy again. We were to make the whole world happy, apparently, by teaching it to morris-dance and to sing folk-songs and to go to the Memorial theatre. With the splendid faith of Youth we pilgrims believed that England could be made ‘merrie’ again by hand-looms and young women in Liberty gowns, who played the harpsichord. Then, I seem to remember, shortly after that war was declared . . . Stratford-on-Avon is the only town in England which can be compared with the ancient pilgrimage towns; it is, in its way, a kind of lay Glastonbury. I suppose the old religious shrines also received thousands of sheep-like pilgrims who had no idea why they were pilgrims beyond the fact that it was the right thing to do. M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:37 am Page 27 In Theatre 27 How I detest the word ‘pilgrim’ in its modern sense. Also the word ‘shrine’. Whenever I hear them I seem to hear also someone saying, ‘Bring a couple of Martinis – quick now – and some ice water!’2 Morton’s account is as interesting in its own way as that of critics like L. C. Knights, G. R. Wilson Knight and E. M. W. Tillyard, who were to emerge as such dominant voices in Shakespeare scholarship in the years leading up to, during and immediately after the Second World War. Like Morton, or rather like Frank Benson, they had views about Shakespeare’s role as a national figure and about his plays as representative of an idealised Elizabethan world of cultural and social harmony centred on the figure of the monarch.3 Their influential work, much debated and even denounced since its publication, helped secure a particular place for Shakespeare at the heart of the English educational system and shape a particular approach to the study of his plays. This approach was based, among other things, on nostalgia for a world that seemed somehow innocent in the context of the political turmoil of the twentieth century. However one views these critics’ approach there was something essentially optimistic about it, articulated in the years after the war with the perceived revival of national peacetime purpose and identity associated with the Festival of Britain and the new ‘Elizabethan Age’ that began with the coronation in 1953. There is an ambivalence and pessimism in the sharp difference between Morton’s earlier, possibly naïve idealism (irrevocably lost to the Great War), and his troubled appraisal of the situation as he found it in 1926. His evaluation of the terms of pilgrimage is critical to the history of Shakespeare and Stratford. Much of his tone is rather cryptic or tongue-in-cheek, but those who had a sheep-like relationship with the cultural core of the Stratford experience clearly offended him. He resents those who do not have the kind of (superior) qualitative relationship with the Bard and his work that he himself presumably has, or at least once had, before disillusion set in. The thinning of the cultural relationship between Shakespeare and those attending the shrine, and the overall vulgarisation of Stratford-uponAvon by the trippers and the charabancs – Morton arrived by motorcar you will recall – corresponds to the very problem that was to be addressed by Tillyard and the others. There is a great deal at stake here. Morton doesn’t like pilgrimages that do not have a spiritual dimension: that is, the ‘appropriate’ response to Shakespeare and Stratford. In this approbation he M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 28 26/9/07 8:37 am Page 28 war and nation in the theatre of shakespeare predicts the ideal of the sensitive, culturally attuned respondent defined later in the work of I. A. Richards and F. R. Leavis.4 Secondly, although rehearsing a common piece of prejudice from the time, his attack on Martini-drinkers (for which read Americans) could be said to reflect that deep vein of Englishness which Shakespeare was to represent in the New Criticism to come, but was clearly under threat between the wars. Thirdly, the whole idea of pilgrimage is an interesting and suggestive concept in terms of both Shakespeare and warfare itself. The idea of Stratford-upon-Avon as a shrine where people go to worship the memory of Shakespeare and nation is a familiar one. Yet there is a curious correlation with a central theme of this book – the idea of the remembrance of war as a form of tragedy. If we are to look for modern forms of pilgrimage, we might indeed think of Shakespeare as an English saint and of Stratford-upon-Avon as a place to visit in search of the ghostly presence of a former, better England. But we might also consider a parallel with the way that, in ceremony and liturgy, we are asked to think of the ‘Glorious Dead’ of earlier wars. They are often represented (in inscription and monument) as our better but lost selves. They are suspended in time, as Shakespeare was to be in the work of the critics of the middle part of the twentieth century, with his timeless and national values. In the aftermath of war, remembrance offers a smoothing over of its harsher realities, presenting it as a tragedy with the soldier cast as the hero. Ceremony and ritual are marshalled to cover over cracks and ‘keep dark’ certain aspects of the practices of war. A Shakespeare read provocatively for uncertainties, hesitations and contradictions – and against the smoothing narratives of war and nation espoused on behalf of his work by the mid-century critics – is a very unsettling experience indeed. It amounts to an assault on the reputation of Shakespeare as unequivocally supportive of the warlike hierarchical power structures of his time. In a way such a reading is almost akin to the disinterring of the war dead who lie beneath monuments, in a kind of sanitised sanctity, to find out how bodies are actually marked and torn by conflict. This parallel is especially true when it is seen how close the association between Shakespeare and attitudes to war has become over the centuries – a matter I shall turn to later. One further point emerges from Morton’s sojourn in the Warwickshire countryside in 1926. Like some of those who were to dominate literary criticism in the years that followed his visit, he seems uncomfortable with a ‘lay’ response to high culture. One contention in M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:37 am Page 29 In Theatre 29 this book is that those furthest from Shakespeare and his contemporaries as emblems of high culture might well ask new and searching questions of his work. In the modern world, those distanced from ‘Shakespeare’ (in terms of an awareness of the writer and his work shaped by formal, educational interpretation) might wonder why he has been quite so institutionalised. In a visit to the theatre or in the cinema, they might ask very different questions of the practices and effects of dramatic representation from those asked by critics working in the formal establishments of literary or dramatic criticism. Moreover, those wandering today in and out of the Shakespeare of Stratford, or only occasionally experiencing his plays in theatre or cinema, bring with them the potential for textual readings that may be quite at odds with the formal canons of criticism. If it were not so, the difference between cultural specialist (pilgrim) and non-specialist (tourist) would collapse. One point is clear. Since they are frequently raised in the plays of Shakespeare and his contemporaries and, given the times, are increasingly likely to be of concern to many experiencing modern productions, the dual issues of war and nation should feature highly in the range of questions asked of Shakespeare in the contemporary world. In Shakespeare’s day there were spectators who were closer to him than any of us can ever be – attending early performances at Court or in the public theatres. But those people were even further than modern non-specialists from a conception of Shakespeare as ‘great art’, because Shakespeare had not yet been ‘invented’ in the terms in which so many think of him today. Since those early observers were, as we shall see, most thoroughly immersed in the experience, spectacle or philosophy of war, they would have responded differently to the plays of Shakespeare and his contemporaries when compared with later generations of theatre-goers (and readers) subject to an institutionalised Shakespeare. THEATRE, CANON AND CRITICISM Although it now seems to have fallen from use, the expression ‘Keep it dark’ was popular during the war and appeared on at least one of the government posters in the ‘Loose Talk Costs Lives’ series designed to remind citizens of the secrecy required in undertaking their duties. Brewer’s Dictionary of 20th-Century Phrase and Fable notes it as: A slogan from World War II reminding people to remember national security and not unwittingly give away any information that would be useful M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 30 26/9/07 8:37 am Page 30 war and nation in the theatre of shakespeare to the enemy. In 1940 there was a variety show playing in London called Shush, Keep It Dark, and later there was a radio show featuring a character, Commander High-Price, whose catch-phrase was ‘Hush, keep it dark.’5 Interestingly, E. Cobham Brewer mentioned the term in relation to the theatre of the late nineteenth century in his original Dictionary of Phrase and Fable. He is defining the term ‘Tace is Latin for candle’ and reminds his readers of an historical allusion ‘worth remembering’: It was customary at one time to express disapprobation of a play or actor by throwing a candle on the stage, and once this was done the curtain was immediately drawn down. Oulter, in his History of the Theatres of London, gives us an instance of this which occurred January 25th, 1772, at Covent Garden theatre, when the piece before the public was An Hour Before Marriage. Someone threw a candle on the stage, and the curtain was dropped at once.6 For W. C. Oulter the theatre was a place of light or darkness, and perhaps, in simple terms, a place where things that ought to be ‘kept dark’ (in the judgement of some) were wilfully illuminated in a potentially subversive manner. This view of the disruptive potential of the theatre coincides with the attitude to the early modern theatre assumed in this book – a view that has been helped along by the critical theory of the last thirty years or so. The fundamental shake-up in critical thinking heralded by structuralism arrested traditional criticism and set the scene for a long battle in the 1970s and 1980s over what constituted the canon of ‘English literature’ and what contribution a new body of theory could make to the understanding of literature and criticism. An important area of this concern over canon was inevitably devoted to the texts of Shakespeare’s plays and those of his contemporaries and followers, and also addressed the manner in which theatrical performance explored the ideology of those texts. The theory that has recast criticism of Shakespeare’s plays over this period is a striking but complex phenomenon and an examination of some of its key components may help to provide a context for the approach I wish to adopt. CRITICAL APPROACHES Three general points can be made about the kind of theory that has overturned many of the assumptions found in the earlier criticism of critics such as Tillyard, Knights and Wilson Knight. The first concerns M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:37 am Page 31 In Theatre 31 the formerly established literary canon, the body of ‘accepted’ great works that privileged certain writers above others. This earlier canon has been viewed for the last thirty years or so as an ascendancy of certain authors that necessarily led to the exclusion or neglect of writers whose works did not fit an exacting but nonetheless partial, or even prejudiced, set of criteria. Thus, in the realm of Renaissance drama, Shakespeare ruled supreme, to the detriment of the dozens of writers classified solely as his ‘contemporaries’. This recent subversion of the older canon is important to the way that this book proceeds. It is part of its argument about war and nation that Shakespeare’s contemporaries, although writing for similar audiences and in the same atmosphere of extended debate about war, can be read as offering a rather different set of narratives about war itself. This is not to say that Shakespeare was somehow pro-war and his contemporaries against it, but that the wider canon of texts reveals a striking complication in representations of war that depends in part upon the reaction of Shakespeare’s contemporaries and followers to his work. And there are texts, marginal in the sense of the traditional canon, in which can be found narratives of war that are hard to incorporate in a view of the drama of the period as an expression of a commitment to the military orthodoxy of the period. A second major theme of modern theory has been the overt sense of its own politics, and a recognition of the politics of the criticism that preceded it. Traditional criticism, modern theorists have claimed, was based on the apparent innocence of its assumptions and practices. It was seemingly harmless in claiming an educational and even moral purpose in ‘close reading’, or in recognising ‘timeless values’ in the literature of the past. There was in fact a political significance in the assumptions made about what constituted those timeless values and their role in reinforcing a particular social order. Thus, if a great work like Hamlet was read in order to show the timelessly tragic nature of the ‘human condition’ and the ‘flaw’ at the heart of even the noblest of men, then this tended to ‘fix’ human nature as both unchanging and unchangeable. Accordingly, modern readers and theatre audiences enjoy the play not for its sense of historical distance from their own experiences, but in terms of identification with an historical continuum: history means nothing because nothing has really changed in the core of human experience since the period when Shakespeare was alive. Implied in this kind of approach, if never clearly announced, was that the desire for societal change found at the heart of radical politics, such as Marxism or feminism, was pointless. In the context of the M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 32 26/9/07 8:37 am Page 32 war and nation in the theatre of shakespeare issues that are important to this study, a fixedly defined human nature would inevitably be bound up with a propensity to engage in warfare, as an aspect of the ‘human condition’ that, perhaps, tests or reveals the tragic heart of ‘man’. Since I am attempting to show the instability of such a ‘natural’ desire or propensity, this aspect of the way that modern literary theory has unfixed a causal human nature could not be more critical. This is not to say that parallels between the ‘then’ of the Renaissance and the ‘now’ of the twenty-first century are not important. Indeed, what is striking about the relationship between attitudes to war in Shakespeare’s time and in our own is exactly a sense of resonance. But it is a resonance that comes about because these attitudes were actually constructed when Shakespeare was alive; and it is in the plays that we find traces of the artificiality of an historical continuity that has been presented as natural, as part of the tragic human condition. An example of just how extensive and profound assumptions about warfare and the ‘human condition’ can be emerges from recent and much publicised assertions by scientists about the inevitability of war. The discourse is scientific, but its (sometimes casually expressed) assumptions might well have their origin in the triumph of ‘war as tragedy’ that came about in the Renaissance. For the celebrated physicist Stephen Hawking the long-term survival of the human race is at risk as long as it is confined to a single planet, and war is placed alongside natural phenomena as a source of that risk: Sooner or later disasters such as an asteroid collision or a nuclear war could wipe us all out. But once we spread out into space and establish independent colonies our future should be safe.7 This shows perhaps the importance of aligning criticism, where fictional representations of warfare are so clearly inscribed, with a politics that refuses such pessimism. Equating critical practice with politics in the first place may seem to some absurd. Yet recent theory has been thoroughly committed to exploring the ideological nature of traditional visions of the relationship between humanity and culture, exposing the politics of the older criticism by contrast with its own, explicitly stated agenda for change. Much modern criticism has been linked to political movements at work beyond academic circles and this is recognisable in the terms that have been used to describe various subsections or varieties of modern critical thought, including feminism, post-colonialism and Marxism. And although Marxism is rarely to the fore in the realm of the most recent criticism, its influence was an important factor in the M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:37 am Page 33 In Theatre 33 re-examination of the theory and practice of criticism in the 1980s. This was partly due to its insistence upon the de-centring of the individual as an agent in the creation and transformation of social formations and its emphasis upon structures (classes, groups, and economic systems) and the collective ‘consciousness’ of people subject to those systems. Most challenging has been the influence on the study of the theatre of Shakespeare and his contemporaries of various schools of literary theory. Even if they repudiate the strictures and simplicity of Marxism, they share with it a strong sense that human beings are products of systems of language, culture and identity that generate the concept of the ‘individual’ or ‘human nature’, promoted as the source rather than the effect of those systems. The radicalism of the many strands of theory that have influenced critical approaches in the last quarter of a century has been in their understanding that meaning is not fixed or stable, but plural and contingent. Texts as diverse as a Shakespeare play, a political speech or even the signs that direct us from place to place in our everyday lives render not a set of transparent truths, but a range of sites where there are contests for meaning.8 We may not be unduly troubled by what might simply be seen as ambiguities in signage in public places, such as arrows apparently directing us the wrong way. But it becomes clear that the meanings of phrases such as ‘just war’ are altogether more problematic and unstable, especially when seen in terms of twenty-first-century international relations and gender politics. This was the case in the plays of Shakespeare and his contemporaries, produced at a time when the theory of the just war was being harnessed in the service of the emerging modern state. The theoretical approaches that have informed readings of these plays over the recent period are, then, diverse and complex. The terms that have emerged, such as ‘structuralism’, ‘poststructuralism’ and ‘psychoanalysis’, are perhaps better understood by readers when they are applied to literary texts, although Marxism and feminism are more easily apprehended because of their clear political provenance. However, there is common ground between the different areas of theory that is particularly significant in terms of Shakespeare’s plays. The philosophical and linguistic approaches that draw to a large degree on the work of the French structuralist Roland Barthes and poststructuralist Jacques Derrida (who modified the earlier ‘structuralism’ of the Swiss linguist Ferdinand de Saussure) have been particularly influential with respect to texts written for theatrical performance. In proposing that meaning is not fixed, either by the M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 34 26/9/07 8:37 am Page 34 war and nation in the theatre of shakespeare intentions of the author or by the text itself, Barthes and Derrida unsettled the emphasis that more traditional criticism had placed on the author. An author produces a text, but cannot control the meanings that flow from it into the communal systems and cross-currents of language; and meanings are not his or her private realm, but operate in a public way – in what might collectively be termed ‘culture’. In many respects this idea is especially true of the dramatic text – written perhaps by a single hand, but manifestly opened up in terms of the plurality of its meanings by the collaborative nature of production. If this is not the case, the impulse individuals have to see many different ‘interpretations’ of the same play would become meaningless. The theatre might be said to be a complex system for the production of meaning that inherently reinforces the idea of ‘plurality’ of meaning that theorists have ascribed to any kind of written text. The theatre is a system of signification in which meaning circulates through a range of agents, such as actors, directors or stage managers, and by means of its own mechanics – set, scenery, lighting and costume. Faced with this proliferation of devices for the production of meaning, audiences are invited to experience systems that reveal the way that meaning is ‘produced’ in a very practical manner. The objective may be to create an illusion of reality, but the mechanics of that illusion are very apparent, and the raw material of any production, the text, is necessarily just one component in the overall process. The process through which meaning is produced seems especially ‘open’ in the plays of Shakespeare and his contemporaries, where there is an extremely close correspondence between the texts and the theatre environments for which they were written. Although this openness also has much to do with contemporary attitudes to language and meaning in a world before literacy was common, the dramatists of the late sixteenth and early seventeenth centuries seemed particularly aware of the instability and plurality of meaning. The plays are full of double-meanings, slips of the tongue and puns. In a period that valued rhetoric as an expression of scholarship, the plays constantly reflect on the power of speech itself and its potential for deception as well as truth: language seems less a transparent medium for ‘truth’ and more a complex of variations and uncertainties of meaning. When this phenomenon is considered in the context of the way that the plays were staged, the self-reflexivity of Renaissance drama is even more apparent. The stage was itself a system of signs, simple in its construction but complex in terms of its signification. If, as it is widely thought, the canopy in public theatres M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:37 am Page 35 In Theatre 35 such as the Globe represented Heaven, and a trapdoor in the stage could signify Hell, then the meanings of those terms could be unfixed by being used in other pieces of stage business, or simply by being seen as part of the theatre. Meanwhile, the stage could be a platform or a forest, a castle or a battlefield, but certainly a space where meaning could be played with and played out. Such a complex system of signification might be said to reinforce and, indeed, amplify ideas about language and meaning that have underpinned recent critical approaches to early modern theatre. Instead of searching for universal truths and timeless continuities such as ‘human nature’ or the ‘human condition’, the emphasis of recent critical thinking has shifted to the way that the theatre represents a contest between competing sets of ideas. Far from providing a smooth hierarchy of meaning, with the ‘truth’ of any dramatic situation as inevitable and easily accessed, the theatre tends towards inviting its audience to ponder a range of contrasting positions and viewpoints over which it has to make a judgement. Recalling the theoretical work of Emile Benveniste, the influential critic Catherine Belsey once described the plays of the Renaissance as ‘interrogative’, distinguishing them from the ‘declarative’ texts of classic realism.9 Writing in 1980, she argued that the ‘interrogative’ text: invites an answer or answers to the questions it poses. Further, if the interrogative text is illusionist it also tends to employ devices to undermine the illusion, to draw attention to its own textuality. The reader is distanced, at least from time to time, rather than wholly interpolated into a fictional world. Above all, the interrogative text differs from the classic realist text in the absence of a single privileged discourse which contains and places all the others.10 This still seems to me a valid and persuasive summary of the subversive potential of the Elizabethan and early Stuart play. Although criticism evolved into ‘Cultural Materialism’ and ‘New Historicism’, and there has recently been a return to formalist and biographical approaches, I shall be exploring the representation of war in the texts of Shakespeare and his contemporaries in terms of this idea of their interrogative nature. SHAKESPEARE’S WAR It is my contention that the plays of Shakespeare and his fellow playwrights from the period ‘interrogate’ central issues to do with war M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 36 26/9/07 8:37 am Page 36 war and nation in the theatre of shakespeare that were being constructed in this period beyond the theatre itself – notably in the military theory that this book addresses. In order to interrogate the subject of war, Shakespeare and his contemporaries had first to raise it – and this they did in as determined and focused a way as writers had in a variety of forms across the centuries since writing began. In terms of Shakespeare alone, war is such a common reference point in his work that its appearance is sometimes overlooked – or certainly marginalised – as an issue. Looking again at the 1942 Stratford season one notices the presence of war in Jacques’s speech in As You like It where the soldier is identified as one of the ‘natural’ ages of man: Then, a soldier, Full of strange oaths, and bearded like the pard, Jealous in honour, sudden, and quick in quarrel, Seeking the bubble reputation Even in the cannon’s mouth. (II.vii.149–53) An understanding of the potential the early modern theatre has to invite subversive readings of the prevailing ideologies of its period has worked against a much older view of Shakespeare’s work as straightforwardly patriotic. The work of some recent critics has also drawn attention to the place Shakespeare obtained in relation to warfare in later periods. Much work has been done, for example, on Laurence Olivier’s wartime production of Henry V, or of the connections seen between Shakespeare and the Cold War, the Falklands War and the attack on Iraq. One suspects that the persistent but changing nature of war in the last two decades is responsible for the increased interest of late in the representation of warfare on the English stage of the late sixteenth and early seventeenth centuries. The book-length publications mentioned later are evidence of this, together with an impressive variety of journal articles and chapters in multi-authored collections. The issue has also been to the fore at a number of recent international conferences. It has been a topic for discussion in the Shakespeare Association of America, the British Shakespeare Association and at the World Shakespeare Congress, as well as in a range of more specialised, ad hoc conventions. There has also been a series of conferences with an historical or interdisciplinary theme, all showing the vitality and topicality of early modern warfare either as an issue in itself or as a subject in various genres of fiction. Those organising such events have pointed M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:37 am Page 37 In Theatre 37 to recent world affairs as somehow prompting debate for those historians who, like myself, regard the early modern period as a political and philosophical source for the practices of modern warfare. It is hard to think of a more universal topic than war and yet until recently there were few full-length volumes produced on the relationship between war and the dramatic literature of the late sixteenth and early seventeenth centuries. Written fifty years ago, Paul Jorgensen’s Shakespeare’s Military World still seems fresh because in many ways it has never been eclipsed, although it positions Shakespeare as something of a channel for Tudor enthusiasm for war.11 Ten years ago Curtis C. Breight’s Surveillance: Militarism and Drama in the Elizabethan Era opened up the field and has become something of a reference work for those looking for elements of coercion (military and otherwise) in the emerging early modern state.12 Other recent texts on Shakespeare and war include: Richard Courtney, Shakespeare’s World of War: the Early Histories (1994); Nick de Somogyi, Shakespeare’s Theatre of War (1998); Bruce R. Smith, Shakespeare and Masculinity (2000); Nina Taunton, 1590’s Drama and Militarism: Portrayals of War in Marlowe, Chapman and Shakespeare’s Henry V (2001); and Alan Shepard, Marlowe’s Soldiers (2002).13 The work of Scott Newstok is critical to an understanding of the way that Henry V has been used in twenty-first-century political discourse.14 Alongside these academic discussions has been a telling amount of public interest in the staging of plays about war written by Shakespeare and his contemporaries. These range from Michael Bogdanov’s 1986–89 productions of Shakespeare’s history plays, with their overt references to the war between Britain and Argentina in the South Atlantic, to the recent productions of Henry V, which have alluded to the attack on Iraq.15 In the early modern period assertions about the moral righteousness of war, the ‘naturalness’ of the continuity between masculinity and warfare, and the necessity of the early modern state to have a standing army, had to be constructed by means of interpretations of classical models, foreign examples and biblical sources. And these assertions had to be carefully defended against an apparently powerful but increasingly occluded counter-discourse. The triumph of the pro-war, pro-soldier, pro-state army argument is evident in the range of military history that celebrates the ‘origins’ of the militarism of modernity in a romanticised ‘renaissance’ of evolving (and ‘progressive’) military discipline. What follows addresses this history in order to show how the early modern discourse of war was manufactured M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 38 26/9/07 8:37 am Page 38 war and nation in the theatre of shakespeare and to question its authority through an examination of some of the dramatic representations of the subject of war in the work of William Shakespeare, his contemporaries and his near-contemporaries. In this form of writing for the stage can be demonstrated the contradictions in the adjacent military prose. And glimpses can be had of the counter-discourse of, say, domesticity versus going to war, pleasure above martial prowess, and the virtue of a collective ‘body of citizens’ as opposed to the collective body of an army. The book thus seeks to pursue the relationship between Shakespeare and war by setting against the drama of the period a range of contemporary foreign and domestic texts that are formally thought of as manuals on the art of war. Beyond their practical recommendations concerning tactics, weaponry and discipline, these works also describe the ideological practice of warfare in terms of its justification, ethics and purpose. These texts are evidence of and examples from an early modern international ‘revolution’ in the practicalities of war. They also mark an end to any real mainstream ideological (and therefore theological) doubt about the permanence of warfare as a constant in human affairs and therefore what constitutes the ultimate distinguishing practice of a well-formed modern state. The analysis of these texts shows that the military revolution which they reflect, whilst predicated on an ideal of absolute monarchy, is actually a precondition for the establishment of the conditional, parliamentary monarchies or republics of the modern era. In this evolution the inevitability and even desirability of warfare is inscribed at the expense of earlier visions of peace and co-operation espoused by thinkers such as Erasmus, Colet and More. The study further maintains that the relationship between civilian life and military idealism was an intimate one long before the maturing of capitalism, but can be seen almost as a precondition of advanced capitalism. It looks to the theatre of the late sixteenth and early seventeenth centuries in order to trace the insecurities and contradictions in the establishment of the warlike state. The uses of Shakespeare as a symbol of patriotism are discussed as the military texts, form against form, are set against the dramatic texts. Shakespeare’s theatre, like all theatre, relied on conflict, and in the pursuit of this can be read as inviting a resistance to the smooth imperative of the military prose texts, the themes of which are returned to time and time again in Shakespeare’s plays. Thus my investigation of parts of the Shakespeare canon starts with the history plays and proceeds by way of tragedy to a variety of plays, all a rich M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:37 am Page 39 In Theatre 39 source of debate about the ethics of war. In later chapters I look beyond Shakespeare to the fertile anti-war territory of his predecessors, contemporaries and those who followed him. Here there are parodies of warlike activity (and of Shakespeare’s plays themselves) which invite their audiences to ponder the value and security of home and health against military organisation, foreign campaigns, sickness and death. These texts may be seen to promote crafts (and trade) against the exercise of arms, love and sex against war and destruction, and finally (and radically) to celebrate a non-violent masculinity despised by the authors of the military prose. In terms of structure, Part II is primarily concerned with aspects of the pan-European military revolution that took place in the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries. It is also concerned with the way that texts from this period have been adopted and used in subsequent histories and representations of the history of war. The Reformation and the consolidation of a Protestant nationalist identity were thought to be vulnerable to Catholicism at home and Catholic states abroad. Spain in particular is seen as both a threat and an example of good practice in the realm of military ethics. The texts derive much of their authority from their references to classical ideals, some to what seems an absurd extent in their call for the establishment of legions of soldiers based on Roman models and equipped with Roman weapons. Yet there are also challenges for military writers over such matters as gender identity (caused by a perceived decline in codes of masculinity) and what is seen as a general sense of decadence associated with a state of peace that was seemingly undermining national confidence and political strategy. I start with an incident reported by Desiderius Erasmus when Henry VIII of England challenged John Colet for preaching an antiwar sermon just as troops were about to embark on an expedition to France. It is a moment of considerable significance for the period, for an understanding of the texts of military theory addressed in this Part and for the innovative thinking about warfare that they reveal. My account of early modern military development is necessarily derived in part from the narratives of military historians working up archives in pursuit of a story that is coherent and compelling. The approach is of interest itself for its occlusion of what theologians such as Colet had to say about warfare. Their argument is that the pan-European revolution in militarism was not simply about technical innovation and tactical experiment. It was also about the necessity of revising military theory in the face of the imperatives that arose from colonial M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 40 26/9/07 8:37 am Page 40 war and nation in the theatre of shakespeare ambition, new economic structures and a consolidation of the idea of the early modern nation-state. Essential to this process was a reformulation of the medieval notion of the ‘just war’ that would accommodate the changing geopolitical environment that emerged during the era of Reformation and colonialism. Chapter 4 starts with a description of the work of M. J. D. Cockle who, just over a century ago, undertook his taxonomy of the military prose of the early modern period. I give an account of the texts themselves (and others not listed by Cockle) and the way that military historians have responded to, and made use of, this body of writing over the centuries. Some measure is taken of the changing technology of warfare, which these texts describe in some detail. The main discussion, however, will be of the ideological commitment of the texts – their preoccupation with, on the one hand, matters of subjectivity, discipline and the body, and on the other, with establishing warfare as a necessary component of a model state and the soldier as an ideal citizen. Part III is principally concerned with the way that war is represented in some of the dramatic work of Shakespeare. It opens with an examination of the history plays, with particular emphasis on how Shakespeare embodies aspects of militarism in the warlike figures of Richard III and Henry V. The ‘vice figure’ Richard, a symbol of such villainy and contempt that he has often he been compared to Adolf Hitler in modern productions, ironically expresses much of what was being called for by the military writers discussed earlier in the book. Richard’s distaste for peace is the starting point for an analysis of the history sequence. The point will be to explore how Shakespeare’s theatre dramatised and commented on the issues that are to the fore in the military prose, arguably registering a critique that can be thought of as undermining the force of the prose’s polemic. Chapter 6 elaborates an argument about the relationship between war and tragedy, with Hamlet as its focus. Part IV deals first with the radical opposition to notions of warfare, military masculinity and aggression found in the work of Shakespeare’s forerunners, contemporaries and followers. Here I discuss some antecedents of the plays mentioned above, as well as parodies and analogues, and in these texts, it will be argued, are retained and dramatised the arguments against warfare that the military prose is so anxious to occlude. Chapter 7 starts with Christopher Marlowe but will mainly examine a popular prose work, Thomas Deloney’s anti-war narrative The Gentle Craft. Chapter 8 examines some of the plays of Shakespeare’s predecessors, contemporaries and M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:37 am Page 41 In Theatre 41 followers for other instances of oppositional voices which continue a tradition of popular resistance to war that has been obscured by the promotion of Shakespeare in the terms detailed in earlier chapters. The final chapter reviews something of how some of the arguments about how to interpret early modern representations of warfare have a resonance in the present. REMEMBRANCE, PITY AND CLOSURE If remembering those who died in the wars of the twentieth century often involves a form of pilgrimage and a sense of theatre, then the public face of such commemoration has proved angular, masculine and, often literally, one of stone. I am thinking here of the sites of such pilgrimage that have been established in memory of British wars. There is the Cenotaph itself, but also numerous other memorials, often adorned with carved or cast images of soldiers. Then there are the beautifully tended cemeteries, mostly on the European mainland, which are sites of pilgrimage and reflection, or the bronze plaques on buildings recording the names of the dead who once worked there. It is to these sites that people return in private to grieve and remember, but also annually as part of public acts of remembrance, which almost without fail involve a form of military display. However casual the slaughter at the time, the old campaigns are recalled in formalised ritual, with marches, speeches, prayers and poppies. There is thus a kind of circularity to the proceedings: wars in the past are commemorated in a kind of theatre which implies that war will return, with the dead saluted by the very forms of weaponry that made them vanish, only to reappear in stone or metal. The cyclical nature of remembrance is reminiscent of tragedy, and indeed the word ‘tragic’ is commonly used to describe the atmosphere and effects of war. In terms of remembrance there is another connection to the formal tenets of tragedy: the association between war and pity. In the latest revision to their widely adopted student textbook, An Introduction to Literature, Criticism and Theory, Andrew Bennett and Nicholas Royle have included a timely chapter on war. Here they contrast Alfred Tennyson’s ‘The Charge of the Light Brigade’ with Wilfred Owen’s ‘Futility’. They also give an account of Homer’s Iliad, noting that: Literature begins with war, with the rage of war. Menis: wrath, fury, rage. The first word of the first great poem in the Western literary tradition, M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 42 26/9/07 8:37 am Page 42 war and nation in the theatre of shakespeare Homer’s Illiad (c. 700 bc), declares its topic: the rage of Achilles. The Western tradition, in other words, starts up in rage and blood, the rage for war, the rage for rage – godlike, swift-footed, murderous Achilles’ rage.16 Ranging from Homer to the war films of recent decades, Bennett and Royle explain how war has been culturally mediated in terms of its pleasures, the intensity of its experiences and the resulting aesthetics of the way that it is represented in fiction. They note that, for some, war is a delight and its heroes worthy of celebration: It is for this reason, perhaps, that literature is not simply against war, the poetry is not only in the ‘pity’. And an understanding of this fact will perhaps better help us to understand the strange double-talk and doubledealings of literature, and to appreciate the deep, troubled and incessant conjunction of literature and war.17 We might conclude that the dominant cultural response to warfare is one that at best emphasises the Aristotelian duality of response: that we gaze upon and celebrate the heroes and ‘the fallen’ of war with both pity and an aesthetic pleasure at its terror. The problem with this is that it is a reading that serves to close down the fundamental question ‘Why war?’ Pity and terror are compelling distractions from this central question. Or we might say that pity itself is a response of such seductive power that it obscures the irrationality of war, drawing a veil over agency, responsibility or alternatives, and cementing war firmly into such continuums as ‘human nature’. One would not want to dismiss pity, and certainly not in the manner of Nietzsche. Yet ‘the pity of war’ is one of the ways in which we keep dark the fact that those commissioned to conduct wars have been constructed – ideologically, aesthetically and culturally – partly by political discourse and partly by fictional accounts that themselves serve to perpetute war, glorifying terror and pitying the dead. After they have gone, we remember them: imaging death, idealising sacrifice, comforting ourselves with tragic stories and ceremony. In this vein, and in exemplification, I return to Ray and Ronnie whom I left in Chapter 1 marching towards their place in history. Squadron Leader Raymond Newport Peace DFC was twenty-six years old when he died at the controls of a Handley Page Halifax bomber on the night of 20 December 1942 near the frontier between Germany and the Netherlands.18 He is buried alongside the other seven members of the crew in the Reichswald Forest War Cemetery, near Kleve, Germany. His wife gave birth to their son in 1943. Reading his letters you know that he would rather have been flying M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:37 am Page 43 In Theatre 43 for any purpose other than to drop bombs. Had he lived you feel he might have volunteered for the comprehensive aerial photographic survey which began in 1944 as part of the initiative to revise the Ordnance Survey maps of the United Kingdom. He could have returned to Scotland to capture images of those Hebridean islands and peninsulas which had so delighted him as he soared above them on his way to Ireland. Acting Squadron Leader Ronald Sidney Williams DFC died on 14 July 1943 at the age of twenty-nine when his bomber was shot down over Germany. His remains lie in the Rheinberg War Cemetery and his name can be found on a memorial just inside the churchyard at Temple Grafton, a little distance from the grave of his parents.19 Williams also left a young wife. A local newspaper report of his loss is headed ‘Death of Temple Grafton DFC’ and records that he had joined the RAF in 1935 as a sergeant-pilot under the short-term training scheme. The report also notes that Williams ‘was exceedingly popular both in his home village and with all his crew. He occasionally played for the Stratford-on-Avon Rugby Club second team, and he was also interested in amateur dramatics.’ Notes 1. See G. R. Wilson Knight (1940), This Sceptred Isle, Oxford: Clarendon; (1956), A Royal Propaganda, 1956. A Narrative Account of Work Devoted to the Cause of Great Britain During and After the Second World War, MS, BL 11768.f.13; (1964), Shakespearean Production, London: Faber and Faber. For a discussion of the Shakespearean critics of the 1940s and their relation to the war, see Graham Holderness (2002), Visual Shakespeare, Hatfield: Hertfordshire University Press, especially Chapter 5. 2. H. V. Morton (1927), In Search of England, London: Methuen, pp. 248–9. 3. For an account of long post-war legacy of these critics, see Derek Longhurst (1982) ‘ “Not for all time, but for an age”: An Approach to Shakespeare Studies’, in Peter Widdowson (ed.), Re-Reading English, London: Methuen, pp. 150–63. 4. The best account of the work of Leavis is Francis Mulhern (1979), The Moment of Scrutiny, London: New Left Books. 5. Brewer’s Dictionary of 20th-Century Phrase and Fable (1991), London: Cassell, p. 136. 6. See Ebenzer Cobham Brewer (1898), Dictionary of Phrase and Fable, London; and Walley Chamberlain Oulter (1818), A History of the Theatres of London, London: C. Chapple. I am indebted to Lorna Scott for noting this reference. M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 44 26/9/07 8:37 am Page 44 war and nation in the theatre of shakespeare 7. Professor Stephen Hawking talking to John Humphrys on the Today programme broadcast on BBC Radio 4, Thursday, 30 November 2006. Dr Heather Couper, former President of the British Astronomical Society, speaking to Jim Naughtie on Today, Saturday, 2 December 2006, said that the Royal Astronomical Society, the Royal Aeronautical Society and the British Interplanetary Society all agreed ‘we were doomed’. She also remarked that Martin Rees, the Astronomer Royal, believed that of all the threats to the human race the nuclear one was the worst and most likely – we were going to ‘nuke ourselves out’. To be fair, Hawking also believes that environmental damage to the earth and forms of plague further underpin a rationale for the settlement of space. See his A Brief History of Time (1988), London: Bantam. 8. For a clear and engaging account of these aspects of meaning, see Terry Eagleton (1996), An Introduction to Literary Theory, 2nd edition, Oxford: Blackwell. 9. See Emile Benveniste [1966] (1971), Problems in General Linguistics, Miami: University of Miami Press, p. 110. 10. Catherine Belsey, Critical Practice (1980), London and New York: Methuen, p. 92. Belsey offers a readable account of the influence of Roland Barthes, Jacques Derrida and Ferdinand de Saussure. 11. Paul A. Jorgensen (1956), Shakespeare’s Military World, Berkeley, CA: University of California Press. 12. Curtis Breight (1996), Surveillance, Militarism and Drama in the Elizabethan Era, Basingstoke: Macmillan, 1996. 13. Richard Courtney (1994), Shakespeare’s World of War: The Early Histories; Toronto: Simon & Pierre; Nick de Somogyi, Shakespeare’s Theatre of War, Burlington, VT and Aldershot: Ashgate; Bruce R. Smith (2000), Shakespeare and Masculinity, Oxford: Oxford University Press; Nina Taunton (2001), 1590’s Drama and Militarism: Portrayals of War in Marlowe, Chapman and Shakespeare’s Henry V, Burlington, VT and Aldershot: Ashgate; and Alan Shepard, Marlowe’s Soldiers (2002), Burlington, VT and Aldershot: Ashgate. 14. See: http://www.poppolitics.com/articles/2003-05-01-henryv.shtml. 15. See Michael Bogdanov and Michael Pennington (1990), The English Shakespeare Company, London: Nick Hern Books. The ESC’s production ‘The Wars of the Roses’ caused an outrage in some quarters due to its allusions to the conflict in the South Atlantic. Bogdanov writes, ‘The English invade the Continent much like the marauding Celts of Old. Imperialism encourages jingoism. So the Falklands. So Agincourt. “Fuck the Frogs”. The banner hung out by the send-off crowd at Southampton in our production of Henry V grew out of the desire to bridge nearly six hundred years of this same bigoted xenophobic patriotism’ (p. 48). Nicholas Hytner’s 2003 production of Henry V for the National Theatre M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:37 am Page 45 In Theatre 16. 17. 18. 19. 45 in London sparked similar controversy due to its references to the attack on Iraq. Andrew Bennett and Nicholas Royle (2004), An Introduction to Literature, Criticism and Theory, 3rd revised edition, Harlow: Pearson, p. 272. Ibid., p. 278. Writing to his father on 21 December 1942 from No. 76 Squadron, Linton-on-Ouse, Wing Commander Leonard Cheshire noted that ‘the target against which he was detailed was Duisberg in the Ruhr’. The raid involved 232 aircraft. Ronnie’s mother Lillian Sarah Williams died in March 1946, brokenhearted over the loss of her son. Sidney Bertram Williams, vicar of Temple Grafton with Benton and Honorary Canon of Coventry Cathedral, left the village shortly after his wife’s death and died at Weyhill, Hampshire in 1961. M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:37 am Page 46 M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:37 am Page 47 Part II Commitment M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:37 am Page 48 M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:37 am Page 49 3 GOOD FRIDAY, 1513 1 It would have been a moment of high drama. It is certainly one that might be said to resonate across the historical period that this book addresses and throughout the fictional and non-fictional writing that it seeks to analyse. On Good Friday, 1513 John Colet, Dean of St Paul’s, London preached a sermon to a congregation that included soldiers about to set off on one of many campaigns against the French. Sitting among the soldiers was their leader, Henry VIII, and, he must have thought, a figure of considerable inspiration to his troops as they prepared for the battles to come. The other source of inspiration, Henry might have assumed, would have been the deity they had assembled to worship. Also present at the service was Colet’s friend Desiderius Erasmus, who coolly made a note for posterity of what happened that day. Colet was by this time a substantial figure among the contemporary Church Reformers.1 Many of his earlier sermons had been published, recording what he saw as the decadence, indolence and corruption of some sections of the clergy. Colet urged the development of new administrative structures for the Church and the implementation of clearer financial arrangements for the paying of its officials’ stipends. He was also opposed to compulsory celibacy for the priesthood and favoured a simplification of some aspects of liturgical practice. A charge of heresy brought against him had been dismissed, but the accusations (concerning Colet’s views on the worship of images and other doctrinal practices) reveal that he reflected the mood of an increasing constituency among the clergy and the laity of the day.2 His emphasis was on individual conscience, and his preference was for the Scriptures as a source of guidance for religious practice rather than the accumulated legal writing of the Church. In matters of biblical interpretation, doctrine and ritual, Colet stood at a kind of theological and institutional threshold across which many were to pass as England became caught up with the reforming spirit that was gathering pace elsewhere in Europe. Colet died in 1519 but M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 50 26/9/07 8:37 am Page 50 war and nation in the theatre of shakespeare was instrumental in formulating the ideas that were to be drawn up by those who in succeeding decades were to manage the secession from Rome and facilitate the establishment of the English Protestant Church.3 Moreover, Colet was exceedingly popular. His sermons were well attended and his voice was heard far beyond the confines of the ecclesiastical world, not least because of his interest in the establishment of schools and endowments for teachers and scholars.4 Colet, it might be said, imagined a future for the Church, and therefore society, that was both progressive and conservative. It was to be progressive in its emphasis upon education, reform and individual responsibility – as well as matters to do with the use of the vernacular. But Colet’s was a conservative voice in his determination to return to the Scriptures as the source of divine inspiration, over and above those whom he saw as having translated them into the rigid and, in his view, self-serving institutions of church law. Of those who had gone before, Colet may well have thought of Thomas Aquinas as a principal offender – and it was Aquinas who had laid out many of the principles of the just war. Henry, on the other hand, was looking back. He may have fancied himself the imitator of those great warriors of the past, whose exploits he would have read and heard about – either classical figures or earlier English monarchs. He also saw himself as a rival to the continental monarchs with whom he was engaged in alliances or war. So one can imagine his growing unease during that Good Friday sermon as this most influential of clerics proceeded to undermine the understood aggregation constituted by the will of God, the figure of the king, the cause against the French and the body of assembled soldiers. According to Erasmus, Colet launched an unqualified attack on warfare in general, describing it as unChristian and, indeed, as the work of Satan himself. There may have been muttered comments among the members of the congregation, anxious for their souls or for their wages. One can imagine sideways glances to see how the king would react; or perhaps there was simply silence as the soldiers contemplated what must have seemed a daringly new attitude towards their ancient profession. Henry was indeed disturbed by Colet’s anti-war tone and especially his pronouncements against those inspiring figures from the past who were models in a long chain of military leaders that led finally to his own person. Colet, it seems, spent some time urging that princes should follow the example of Christ rather than that of Caesar or Alexander. At best he may have disturbed Henry’s daydream. Worse than this, though, it sounded M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:37 am Page 51 Good Friday, 1513 51 like sedition. Erasmus reports that Colet concluded his sermon by stressing that: They who through hatred or ambition were fighting one another by turns, were warring under the banner, not of Christ, but of the devil. At the same time, he pointed out to them how hard a thing it was to die a Christian death; how few entered on a war unsullied by hatred or love of gain; how incompatible a thing it was that a man should have that brotherly love without which no one could see God, and yet bury his sword in his brother’s heart.5 Commenting in the late nineteenth century Frederic Seebohm regarded this as a significant moment of discord between Colet and the monarch. He notes that Henry summoned Colet to a private meeting because he ‘was not a little afraid that the sermon might damp the zeal of his newly enlisted troops’, and the incident led to a long discussion between Henry and his bishop which ended with: [Henry] glad to find that Colet had not intended to declare absolutely that there could be no just war, no doubt persuading himself that his was one of the very few just ones. The conversation ended with [Henry] expressing a wish that Colet would sometime or other explain himself more clearly, lest the raw soldiers should go away with a mistaken notion, and think he had really said no war is lawful to Christians.6 The conversation took place in private in the garden of the Franciscan monastery next to the king’s palace at Greenwich, while across the river in London the soldiers assembled for the long march to the coast, their morale somewhat dampened by the doubts that had been sown. In terms of the relationship between warfare and the evolving Tudor state the incident is without doubt something of a critical turn. It saw a leading theologian, with a position of considerable institutional authority in the see, state what he considered a fundamental principle of Christian faith. The gravity of the moment arises not so much from the fact that Colet might be questioning the evident desire of the king to regain parts of the realm lost to the French. Colet’s views on the policy itself were not recorded. The important issue is, as Seebohm hints, one of absolutes. In the presence of a sovereign whose authority was thought of as guaranteed by God, one of the most material and inviolable expressions of that absolute was being denied – and in the presence of those armed subjects to whom the sovereign’s will was delegated on the battlefield. Moreover, Colet’s sermon had been a narrative of damnation or salvation, evoking the competing figures of Christ (peace) and the Devil (war). The soldiers M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 52 26/9/07 8:37 am Page 52 war and nation in the theatre of shakespeare might have mistaken this part of the service for a kind of Morality Play, with each of them playing the part of an ‘Everyman’, caught between competing authorities. The analogy seems appropriate enough since the prospect of death was so imminent. Henry and Colet apparently ended their conversation in accord, much to the annoyance of Colet’s enemies in the Church’s hierarchy: Henry’s war was defensive and therefore just, although Seebohm notes that nobody knows whether or not a second sermon was ever preached.7 Much was at stake for Henry in the series of wars he waged against the French over the course of his long reign. Employing levied troops, but necessarily having recourse to foreign mercenaries, Henry’s armies campaigned hard over the periods 1512–14, 1522–5 and 1543–6.8 These wars were a material adjunct to the symbolic display of sovereignty that was being carefully fostered by Henry and his advisers. Henry’s obsession with military technology, exemplified by the importation from Antwerp of the very latest kinds of cannon, was matched by a careful cultivation of images and practices derived from a chivalric past. This was in part an inheritance from his father, who after all had named Henry’s elder brother Arthur in the expectation that he would succeed to the throne as the head of a quasi-mythological new order. But it was also an attempt to secure a unified national image derived from earlier military triumphs, which themselves were to be written up in Tudor chronicles in a near-mythological way. Henry VII had held on to Calais, the last remaining outpost in France, but had shown little enthusiasm in his occasional efforts to reassert English dominion over territory that had been lost since the period of Henry V’s triumph at Agincourt. By contrast, his son recognised the importance of maintaining a high profile in the competing circles of European princes and saw the advantage at home in terms of prestige. Absolute monarchy was defined and fuelled by militarism. If one of its goals was the abolition of civil war, then this was to be achieved by maintaining overseas conflicts which not only proved the worth of the institution but also kept the divided nobility occupied in a common cause. Henry stands in a long tradition of leaders who maintain authority and attempt to achieve a heightened status by summoning images of the past, recalling historical triumphs or settling old scores. Henry’s armies’ determined but remote efforts against the French were financially draining, beset by disease among the troops, and ended with next to nothing gained in terms of territorial advantage.9 For Henry, they went hand in hand with summer afternoons M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:37 am Page 53 Good Friday, 1513 53 spent at jousting matches in and around his palaces – and expensive diplomatic ceremonies based on courtly ritual and display. Henry’s attempts to command a position in continental Europe’s spheres of influence were not altogether successful and his fortunes changed dramatically following his excommunication from Rome. Fortunately, as far as national security was concerned, Henry wisely saw to it that he also invested in the navy and in an elaborate system of coastal defences, thus mixing propaganda with pragmatism and avoiding, although not entirely, any invasive retaliation by the French.10 Henry’s attachment to a symbolic order derived from the past did not mean that his armies, and those of his children, were entirely ineffective. Whilst he favoured something like a revival of the medieval notion of the mounted nobility leading infantry to war, his lieutenants recognised that the practices of warfare were beginning to change. The Tudor armies that fought for English control over the Lowlands at Flodden, and at Solway, Pinkie and Leith in Scotland were successful against the armies they encountered because the English forces included an influential component of mercenaries from continental Europe. These professional soldiers brought with them, apart from their sheer brutality, weapons and skills that represented the kinds of technical and tactical innovation that have seen the period described as one that experienced a ‘military revolution’. Henry’s French and Scottish campaigns set the scene for an extended period of military engagement under the later Tudor and early Stuart governments. The pattern was irregular and sporadic. The 150 years which separate the occasion of Colet’s sermon at the start of Henry’s wars from the outbreak of civil war in England and Wales in the midseventeenth century and the allied military activity in Ireland and Scotland were busy ones for English soldiers. But they were years of considerable uncertainty in matters of state military policy. It is for this reason that the later part of the period produced such an abundance of writing committed to the formulation of a clear policy that would underpin the growing confidence of the maturing Protestant state. Although the late medieval antagonisms simmered, Henry’s wars of prestige in France gave way to Elizabeth’s colonial wars in Ireland and the extended conflict with Spain. These campaigns were often characterised by the unauthorised participation of adventuring English soldiers – especially in the Low Countries – who reported in written accounts of their own experiences of war, on the nature, extent and fortunes of the various officially affiliated national or sectarian armies they encountered abroad. By the time a commitment to the revolt M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 54 26/9/07 8:37 am Page 54 war and nation in the theatre of shakespeare against Spain in the Low Countries had been formalised and the Armada threatened national security, the contrast between what such soldiers found abroad and the domestic military scene must have been complete. During this period over 100,000 men were raised for service in Ireland, in defence of the Scottish border and for the wars in continental Europe. Ian Roy suggests that this figure represents an astonishing 15 per cent of all able-bodied males, drawn from the militia or trained bands, or pressed into service by the lords lieutenant of the English counties.11 The fate of the anti-war stance taken earlier by Colet and his contemporaries needs to be considered in the context of these campaigns, and the subsequent, but less extensive, early Stuart contributions to the Thirty Years War. On the one hand, there was the empirical result of military activity, materially affecting the thousands called or forced to participate in the wars. Of these people a percentage would have witnessed the growing preoccupation with warfare in the plays of Shakespeare and his contemporaries. The effect of war on the population at large would, at any rate, have been a significant factor in the psychological make-up of the theatres’ audiences during the period. On the other hand, there was the mass of publications devoted to the business of warfare, lamenting the disorganised state of the military apparatus and calling for reform and innovation. Woven into this body of work were the attitudes towards war and peace that were at least to qualify, and in most cases utterly traduce, the residual strand of the pacifism epitomised by Colet’s remarks in 1513. Since the theoretical infrastructure behind these writers’ concerns lay in Europe and in the so-called revolution in military affairs, it is worth pausing to take some account of this before returning to the issue of peace. A range of influences can be seen as involved in the changing face of militarism in the period leading up to the proliferation of English plays concerning warfare in the late sixteenth and early seventeenth centuries. Changing economic conditions across Europe in the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries can be seen as both stimulating and facilitating new kinds of warfare. It is arguable that in many situations the declared cause of a particular conflict masks an underlying issue of resources. Certainly, increasing populations, the resulting transfer of forests and other sorts of formerly uncultivated land into agricultural use, and the desire to control land and sea communications across and between existing and newly productive areas, lay behind conflicts that have been recorded as dynastic, religious or M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:37 am Page 55 Good Friday, 1513 55 chauvinist. The kinds of economically motivated military activity associated with colonialism beyond Europe can be identified in microcosm within it. Longstanding but periodically renewed disputes over trade routes to the east and, increasingly in the sixteenth century, over ports and communications with territory in Africa and across the Atlantic, replicated and extended a European phenomenon that can be traced back to the empires of the classical period and earlier. Issues of concern in the modern world, such as the relationship between warfare and resources, technology and the perpetuation of war, mutually assured destruction, and the morality of arms manufacture and distribution all have their equivalents in the late medieval and early modern periods. Territorial disputes were likely to be fought over mineral deposits that were processed and forged into weapons that facilitated further territorial disputes. Technical innovation motivated the establishment of specialised manufacturing (and a concomitant aesthetic of arms) that could operate across borders, stimulating new forms of capital exchange, and secure or destroy political alliances by proxy. And much of the gold and silver of the worlds beyond the Atlantic which repaid all the ‘voyages of discovery’, the energies of conquest and the fervour of piracy was absorbed by the increasing costs of European wars. For many of its subjects and citizens the greatest impact of the European Renaissance must have been the consequences of their rulers’ commitment to warfare. As the period went on, the scale and nature of those wars, their regularity and the economic conditions that they generated meant that even those not directly involved in the military institutions felt their impact. Non-combatants suffered increased taxation to finance wars, as well as disruptions to their livelihoods. They were caught up as citizens in the sieges that especially characterised the early part of the period, suffering looting or worse, and many succumbed to the various diseases that armies could be practically guaranteed to carry. The sixteenth and seventeenth centuries, according to Geoffrey Parker, saw: More belligerence than almost any other period of European history, registering a grand total of only ten years of total peace across the continent. During the sixteenth century, Spain and France were almost constantly at war; while during the seventeenth century, the Ottoman empire, the Austrian Habsburgs and Sweden were at war for two years out of every three, Spain for three years out of every four, and Poland and Russia for four years out of every five. ‘This’, as the Italian poet Fulvio Testi wrote in 1641, ‘is the century of the soldier.’12 M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 56 26/9/07 8:37 am Page 56 war and nation in the theatre of shakespeare Most evident in the history of warfare leading up to the playwrights’ representation of its ethics and practices in the theatres of the Tudors and early Stuarts is the accelerating scale of campaigns. Larger armies required more comprehensive forms of taxation and more sophisticated ways to train and deploy the participants: thus the machinery of war developed alongside the apparatus of the early modern state. Technical innovation made mass combat in the field a more skilled occupation and the sense of soldiering as a profession, rather than an obligation to a knight or monarch, clearly dates from this period. The most obvious technical advances are associated with the use in the West of gunpowder (a compound originally developed in China in the ninth century) for use in cannon and then smaller match- and later wheel-lock, artillery – the arquebus, musket and pistol. At the same time, increasingly reliable methods of forging metals and the development of alloys meant that swords, halberds and pikes were stronger and could be produced more efficiently. However sophisticated weapons became, and artillery made battles much more decisive, attention returns in the writing of the theorists and in government statutes, to the soldiers themselves. Those writing of England in the Tudor and early Stuart periods about military matters were acutely aware of a sense of military history and there are scattered references throughout their works to the battles of the past and how they were won. Whilst disparaging remarks abound about the poor quality of the contemporary recruit, earlier soldiers were much celebrated. It is not unusual to find references to wars that were won through the energy and commitment of ordinary soldiers, whether they fought for the English Crown or not, and whatever the outcome. Recalling the wars in Scotland of the fourteenth century, Robert I’s highly motivated army is celebrated as being drawn from a willing population and the skills of its foot soldiers acknowledged in the defeat of Edward II’s knights at Bannockburn in 1314, despite the presence of over 20,000 English infantry. Similarly, the principal battles of the Hundred Years War – Crécy, Poitiers and Agincourt itself – are recalled for the skills of the ordinary soldiers rather than those of the knights. These histories acknowledge that unless mercenaries were used, the outcome of battles depended in the end on massed armies of ordinary people drawn away to war from their day-to-day lives. Although characterised as a period of military revolution by some modern historians in terms of technology and tactics, the concern of the Elizabethan writers looking back over 200 years of warfare was not only with innovations in weaponry and M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:37 am Page 57 Good Friday, 1513 57 strategy. Rather, they were preoccupied with the social composition of armies and the motivation of their members. It was, in fact, an uneven period in terms of the various kinds of military organisation and personnel available. The tradition of armies of mounted knights continued in Italy long after it had been abandoned in any real sense elsewhere in Europe. French armies of the fifteenth century came closest to the idea of a recognisable standing army ahead of others, and the Spanish developed the mass use of guns at the same time as other armies continued to rely on the bow. During the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries the Swedish army became perhaps the most sophisticated in terms of a combination of advanced weaponry, tactics and the professionalism of its highly motivated soldiers: it was later to become, decisively, an example of good practice for Cromwell’s military forces. Looking back at the wars of the past, and across at the various models abroad, Elizabethan military theorists were able to draw on a mass of evidence from which to develop their ideas about warfare. Yet however extensive their vision was of arrayed ranks of soldiers with up-to-date weapons and other equipment, that vision depended on an ideology of the soul of the individual soldier. The military writing of the late sixteenth and early seventeenth centuries is an extensive genre which has held the attention of military historians for a number of years, especially since the publication of M. J. D. Cockle’s important work, A Bibliography of English Military Books up to 1642.13 Cockle listed in considerable detail and with extensive notes some 150 late fifteenth- to early seventeenth-century English language books devoted to issues of warfare. He extended his list to include what he described as ‘contemporary foreign works’, thereby embracing such influential European texts as Niccolò Machiavelli’s The Arte of Warre, which first circulated in translation from 1560.14 There are other familiar names, such as Christine de Pisan, whose The Boke of the Faytes of Armes and of Chyvalreye was printed by William Caxton in 1498. Of the Elizabethan English writers, Barnabe Rich is probably the best known. His polemical style is fairly typical of the Elizabethan militarists, urgently demanding the establishment of a standing army and describing its ideal composition and tactical approach.15 The issues at stake in this body of work are wide-ranging. Many writers were concerned with what might be called the practical detail of warfare, issues to do with weapons and equipment, soldiers’ clothing and rations, or, say, the best method available for digging tunnels M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 58 26/9/07 8:37 am Page 58 war and nation in the theatre of shakespeare in order to undermine a fortress. Yet Henry Webb’s summary of these issues hints at the links between such detail and wider ideological concerns – matters of organisation, responsibility, discipline, morale, training and expertise – and, above all, the theological basis on which warfare could be thought legitimate. These issues were the ideological materials of what we might call ‘militarism’, a set of propositions governing relations between the individual, the nation and the various forms of institution that were the equivalent of what a modern state would see as its armed forces. For Webb, the Elizabethan military writers were concerned with such matters as: What moral and physical qualities were requisite in officers and private soldiers, what training was necessary to achieve expertness in battle, what sorts or organisations could be formed and were best suited for different kinds of exploits, and what kinds of tactics might be most serviceable on the battlefield.16 It was hardly possible for early modern militarism to analyse issues of strategy, tactics and organisations, or even to address such matters as, say, the importance of keeping weapons in good order, without engaging in ethical, theological and ideological debate. I shall return to this body of writing in Chapter 4 in order to examine the range of issues it addresses. In the context of Colet’s Good Friday sermon, however, it is of interest to note here the fate of the early Reformers’ anti-war sentiment in relation to this significant and weighty canon of military texts. Over the course of the century and a half that followed the Dean’s awkward encounter with Henry, those writing from within or on behalf of European militarism, some as soldiers or exsoldiers but many simply as political commentators, advocated and finally secured a determined attitude towards warfare. This pro-war disposition, very different from that espoused by Colet and other Reformers, is arguably one that has lasted until the present day. In simple terms, early modern militarism included a concern for the reinforcement of the idea that warfare could be justified in the name of Christianity. In the pursuit of this, the military writers depended on the presentation of a ‘history’ of warfare derived from biblical sources, carefully blended with accounts of warfare from the classical periods and the experience of Christian warfare in Europe and beyond in earlier centuries.17 Little account is made of the kinds of uncertainties about warfare modern scholars have discovered in medieval literature and particularly that of the fourteenth century, such as The Alliterative Morte Arthure or Wynnere and Wastoure, M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:37 am Page 59 Good Friday, 1513 59 which I shall return to in a later chapter.18 Indeed, by 1619, the heroic figure of the earlier crusading knight had become for the early modern militarists the epitome of the Church Militant, renewed for service on behalf of the Reformation in the Low Counties, where the (Protestant) soldiers supplied: (a patterne for all Christendome) whose valor the Lord hath exceedingly blessed, in delivering them by force of Armes, from the tyrannie of the cruell Spaniards, to the great comfort of all true-hearted Protestants.19 By the time civil war had come again in the mid-seventeenth century, the ideal of the Christian soldier had been linked to that of divine determination of the outcome: Civil war makes that King who undertakes unjust wars against his subjects to repent him of his victory, when he truly sees what he hath done . . . for victory in war is neither got by multitude, nor strength, but by the ayd, assistance, and power of God. And therefore these military means must now be used.20 The early modern writers certainly did not, then, acknowledge positions in earlier literature, which arguably undermined ‘commonplaces of chivalry and knightly warfare through inversion, irony and black humour’.21 There is, instead, a studied and forceful repudiation of the kind of quasi-pacifism of some early Tudor theologians, and especially that of Erasmus and Thomas More. Erasmus’s position in Moriae Encomium, Quera Pacis, Institutio Principis Christiani, Militaria and other texts was clear enough: war is so monstrous a thing that it befits beasts and not men, so violently insane that poets represent it as an evil visitation of the Furies, so pestilential that it causes a general corruption of character, so criminal that it is best waged by the worst men, and so impious that it has no relation with Christ.22 Erasmus’s arguments for pacifism can be traced across the considerable body of his writing and take a number of forms. The satirical Quera Pacis was published in 1517, a year after the influential Institutio Principis Christiani, which considered that ‘the teachings of Christ apply to no one more than to the prince’. In terms of the proposed relationship between peace, Christianity and monarchy, John C. Olin has noted that: It is hardly necessary to point out that in these works, as in the whole moral approach, Erasmus stands in striking contrast to another contemporary scholar and observer Niccolò Machiavelli, whose own famous M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 60 26/9/07 8:37 am Page 60 war and nation in the theatre of shakespeare book, Il Principe had been penned just a few years before. But if this contrast is exceedingly sharp, the similarity between the ideas of Erasmus and those expressed by Thomas More in Utopia, that supreme masterpiece of the Christian Renaissance, is very close. And 1516 is also the year of Utopia.23 Erasmus continued to publish widely circulated texts on the subject of human conflict and divine authority, including the Colloquia, produced from 1500 onwards, which included a variety of forthright attacks on soldiers and warfare. For example, in one of the colloquies, Militaria of 1522, the argument over warfare in general and plunder in particular, is delivered through an exchange between Hanno and Thrasymachus: Hanno: The old army spirit! . . . But you did refrain from sacrileges, I suppose? Thras: On the contrary. Nothing was sacred there; no building spared, sacred or profane. Hanno: How will you make amends for that? Thras: They say you don’t have to make any amends for what’s done in war; whatever it is, it’s right. Hanno: The law of war, perhaps. Thras: Exactly. Hanno: Yet that law is the greatest wrong. It wasn’t devotion to your country but hope of spoils that drew you to war. Thras: Granted; and in my opinion few men do there from any loftier motive. Hanno: To be mad with many is something! Thras: A preacher declared from the pulpit that war is just. Hanno: The pulpit doesn’t often lie. But war might be just for a prince, not necessarily for you. Thras: I heard from professors that everyone has a right to live by his trade. Hanno: A splendid trade – burning houses, looting churches, violating nuns, robbing poor people, murdering harmless ones.24 Such a dialogue might question war, but if Erasmus’s pacifism was an alternative position available to the Tudor monarch, then there is an irony in the fact that its usual formulation depended on a presentation of the Pauline paradox of the ‘Christian Soldier’. The image is halfway towards a compromise with the prevailing religious rationale for the wars that dominated the period. Indeed, the nearer theologians came to actual debate with Tudor absolutism, the more flexible became the Christian ideal of pacifism in response to the counter-discourse of the M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:37 am Page 61 Good Friday, 1513 61 just war: a concept that the military theorists either assume, or validate with further guarantees of divine justification. Thomas More was in direct debate with Henry VIII over the subject of war. His Utopians had welcomed Swiss mercenaries to fight their battles for them and, in the last resort of war, had advocated training women so that ‘in set field the wives do stand every one by their own husband’s side’.25 Anthony Kenny has noted of More’s imagined state that: Unlike other nations, the Utopians do not regard war as anything glorious; but they are not pacifists either. . . . They prefer to win wars by stratagem and cunning than by battle and bloodshed. . . . When war is declared they cause posters to be set up secretly throughout enemy territory offering great rewards for the assassination of the enemy king, and smaller but still considerable sums for the deaths of other individuals [and] this spreads dissension and distrust among the enemy.26 The early modern militarists contested this kind of writing on all counts. Piecing together a selected representation of classical and medieval warfare they constructed a counter-thesis which insisted that war was manly, praised by most poets, dependent on character (and a dependable means by which to enhance character), waged by the best of men and blessed by God. By the early years of the seventeenth century, the work of Erasmus, Colet and More was described as a matter of ‘mere contemplation’ by such early modern militarists as Thomas Digges, who noted that: to speak of peace perpetuall in this world of contention is but as ARISTOTLES FOELIX, XENOPHENS CYRUS, QUINTGIANS ORATOR, or sir Thomas Moors UTOPIA, a matter of mere contemplation, the warre being in this iron age so bien enracinée qu’il est impossible de l’en oster, si non avec la ruine de l’universe. So well ingrafted that it is impossible to take it away without a universal destruction.27 It is the world of Luther and Calvin rather than Aquinas, but the pacifism of some of the early Reformers remained important for the early modern militarists for three reasons. First, it acted as a conceptual link to the idealised period of the fourteenth century and before, when the politics of war expressed in theological terms stood more easily alongside the idea of chivalry. I shall show in the next chapter how sixteenth- and seventeenth-century military writers summoned images from the past to secure their vision of an ideal paradigm. Secondly, and ironically, Erasmus had written the influential Enchiridion Militis Christiani in 1516. With its set of rules governing M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 62 26/9/07 8:37 am Page 62 war and nation in the theatre of shakespeare the discipline and training of the ‘Christian soldier’, this text’s formal links with the later military texts are more compelling than its existence as a pacifist antithesis to their polemic. It is as though the metaphorical (Pauline) association of Christianity with militarism becomes established as an equation, justifying the actual militarism espoused on behalf of the absolute state. Thirdly, early sixteenthcentury pacifism can be held responsible, in part, for the decline (from much earlier paragons) in military discipline and ‘character’ that the militarists cite as both destructive of the nation and opening the door to the excesses of popular unrest. John Hale has remarked on the evolution of theories of Renaissance warfare thus: We could not, of course, expect to hear pacifist views expressed from Elizabethan, Jacobean or Caroline pulpits. Erasmian pacifism had faded away. . . . Catholic teaching, based on Aquinas, licensed the clergy to support a just war by every means in their power short of actual fighting. Luther had pointed out that ‘war is as necessary as eating, drinking, or any other business’ and that once war had been formally declared ‘the hand that bears the sword is as such no longer man’s but God’s, and not man it is but God who hangs, breaks on the wheel, beheads, strangles.’28 According to Roland H. Bainton, Calvin ‘repeatedly said no consideration would be paid to humanity when the honour of God was at stake’.29 Clearly the problems that Colet had perceived in the application of Christian theology to war were largely irrelevant to the clergy, who increasingly addressed the issue during the reign of Elizabeth and the early Stuarts. Yet the discourse of theological justification for war had to be aimed continually at the mass of the population through the exhortations of the sermon – Hale considers them tantamount to an ‘incitement to violence’ – and especially much later, in the years of Puritanism leading up to the civil war.30 There was, then, considerable urgency in the repudiation of what little Christian pacifism remained. This seems to indicate a residual reluctance on the part of those who heard the topic spoken of in many of the estimated 360,000 sermons preached to congregations in England and Wales, whose members were obliged by law to attend, in the years between 1600 and 1640.31 The last decade of the sixteenth century was characterised, then, in terms of military theory, by a proliferation of texts that combined specific recommendations concerning tactics and technology with a more general argument in favour of war, finally justified in the name of God. John Smythe’s Certain Discourses, for example, begins with a M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:37 am Page 63 Good Friday, 1513 63 wide-ranging polemic outlining the causes that had led to the ruin of the nation: Of which the first is long peace which ensuring after great wars to divers that have had notable militias and exercises military in great perfection, they by enjoying long peace have so much given themselves to covetousness, effeminacies, and superfluities that they have either in a great part or else utterly forgotten all orders and exercises military; in such sort that when they have been forced to enter into a war defensive for the defence of their dominions against any foreign nation or nations that have had a puissant and formed militia, they have been so void of the orders and exercises of war of their forefathers that either they have been conquered by their enemies invading, or at least have been in hazard of the loss of their estates and dominions.32 In common with a number of texts of this kind, Smythe raises the issue of effeminacy and related corruption in the state. He finds evidence for this weakness in the histories of the Egyptians, Greeks, Romans and Saxons, all of whom succumbed in one way or another to conquest through a neglect of militarism. Yet the principal history that provides evidence of such neglect is, for Smythe, the Bible itself since, ‘if any of our such men of war be so obstinate that they will not believe such notable histories, let them resort to the Bible’.33 God’s hand can be seen in the history of warfare, and thus: That he be an emperor, a king, or a lieutenant general of an emperor or a king that doth command and govern an army: first of all things, that he do make God to be loved, feared, and served throughout his whole army.34 Many texts of the period, whilst justifying war in terms of Christianity in a general way, further cite the hand of God in support of particular features of the proposed model army. Smythe’s text is concerned in part with promoting the longbow as a weapon requiring the kinds of skill that had been neglected during the long decline of England as a national power. This is a technical matter, but also one of national character in terms of the symbolism of the longbow, an issue that will be examined in more depth in Chapter 4. Yet even here, God’s hand is imagined, justifying the re-adoption of the bow and directing the nation to renewed success. Abandoning the longbow is a symptom of the continuing decline, and: If through the negligence of the better sort of our nation, imitating and following the simple and ignorant opinions of our such unskilled men of war, [war] should come to pass it doth in mine opinion argue nothing more than that God hath withdrawn His hand and all right judgement in M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 64 26/9/07 8:37 am Page 64 war and nation in the theatre of shakespeare matters military from us, and that in time to come, upon any great war either offensive or defensive, we shall, when it is too late, report the same, greatly to the hazard and peril of our prince, country and nation.35 The year after Smythe’s Certain Discourses came Gyles Clayton’s The Approoved Order of Martiall Discipline in which the arguments justifying war were extended in the name of a particular cause. The text links technical innovation to God’s endorsement – God helps those who help themselves – and then includes a lengthy assertion that the desired and positive outcome of war was the cause of peace itself. The text issues the familiar warning about the danger of neglecting military matters: In laying aside the exercise of warlike weapons and Martiall discipline, how many kingdoms hathe beene overthrowne, how many Countries ruinated, and how many florishing Citties sacked and beaten downe flat to the ground.36 This text argues its own importance and purpose by noting that peace could only be guaranteed by war, a point that was easily forgotten in contemporary circumstances: Although (freendlie Readers) you thinke my labours might have beane verie well spared, in wryting any matters appertayning unto warres, for that every man is desirous to live in security of peace: but freendly Readers you are to understand, that this blessed peace cannot be maintayned and kept secure, without the use and practise of warlike weapons, and Martiall discipline. For we are to consider, the ambition of the world is such, that it is impossible for a Realme or Dominion, long to continue in quietnesse and safeguard, where the defence of the sword and Martiall featres of warre is not exercised and practised with discipline.37 Smythe’s notion of war as a guarantee of peace becomes a familiar trope in the military writing. War is theologically and intellectually justified by its treatment in classical texts and in the Bible, which were ‘forthright in prescribing of Lawes and Martiall discipline of Warres; the which in times past were appointed by the Almightie God himselfe’.38 Texts such as this increasingly concerned themselves with somewhat oblique references to a potential internal threat that appear among the familiar accounts of external and international menace. Clayton refers to Elizabeth’s foreign enemies, but also to her domestic ones: ‘God confound her foes, and bring to light all traiterous Conspirators against her most excellent Majestie.’39 This point appears during an argument concerning the best way to preserve peace, yet whether the force that is to disrupt this peace is internal or M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:37 am Page 65 Good Friday, 1513 65 external is left vague. Clayton addresses the idea of internal threat by transferring the argument to the example of Rome: So if this worthy exercise of Martiall Discipline be used, and had in practise for the glory of God, and the defence of Christ hys Gospell, or for the defence of a Kingdom or Common-weale, no doubt there is, but that the GOD of Hostes is our chiefe Generall, and most worthy Capteine. . . . The exercising of warlike weapons, and the often using of them breedeth peace, but if warlike weapons should be layed aside, and Martiall discipline forgotten, then would it be with us, as it was with the Romans.40 The Roman Empire fell to foreign invasion, yet the internal weaknesses that led to its vulnerability cannot fully be explained here. Military decay was clearly involved, but the key factor is that, unlike the Romans, contemporary England has the support and involvement of God – but only if he is obeyed as the ‘most worthy Capteine’. Justifying war in the seventeenth century involved fewer abstract discussions of general ethical or theological points. The just war required definition, but in specific and increasingly topical and applied terms. The case for peace was pushed to the margins of argument and was replaced by the idea of war as a seemingly natural phenomenon. At the same time, specific wars in pursuit of specific objectives appear in the texts as evidence of war’s continuing value. In the 1619 text The Soldier Pleading His Own Cause, war arises through the disorder of the multitude – an assumption given little qualification in the text, but an idea that served to blend classical preChristian examples of the benefits of war with late Roman Christian ideals. The text, in a sense, moves history on, from the origins of militarism to its maturity as the embodiment of Christian law: The fury of the rebellious, and disordered multitude of evill disposed persons hath increased Lawes Military, and was the origin of that honourable profession.41 Military power was, in fact, at the heart of early Christianity since: by Armes the Romanes enlarged their Empire over many nations, and brought many barbarous Countries to civility and prosperity [and] by the Armes and valour of the Emperour Constantine, the Lord redeemed his Church, and restored true religion among many nations.42 In the context of the Reformation, the parallel between military might, the Roman Empire and ‘true religion’ invites questions about the place of God in the conduct of warfare between Protestants and Catholics. Trussell notes that ‘by Armes, the Spanish have got their M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 66 26/9/07 8:37 am Page 66 war and nation in the theatre of shakespeare power in the West Indies, and by Armes do they hold the same in obedience to their Sceptor’.43 But clearly such Roman Catholic activity is not sanctioned by God if the soldiers in the Low Countries really are ‘a patterne for all Christendome’ and the ‘great comfort of all truehearted Protestants’.44 War is justified in terms of both foreign and domestic threat, though emphasis is always placed on England’s vulnerability to invasion from abroad, while the internal situation is analysed in terms of the justice that militarism fosters: The Lord our God, useth no occupation of men in his workes and proceedings, as he doth military men: for by them doth hee execute his wrathe upon the rebellious and faithlesse, and also by the same meanes it pleaseth him to deliver the righteous from oppression.45 Finally, though, internal and external threat are fused as equally threatening to the susceptible realm: The state that is not able to stand in Armes, and to vanquish the rage and power of intestine and forreine violence the same is sure to fall into the power of the spoylers, at one time or other, and then goeth things to havocke.46 The Soldier Pleading His Own Cause settles on the immediate situation of London itself, and although the focus is on foreign threat, presumably from the Spanish, there is a telling hint at the idea of domestic unrest as an important element in the argument in favour of militarism: French citizens [are] prepared. Citizens of Italy likewise. In the little Cittie of Geneva are 5,000 Citizens, in ordinary bands, sworne in Armes. STRASBOROUGH the same. In Amsterdam are weekly traynings of the wealthiest Citizens: and divers other Countries, and Citties the like. . . . And is London so secure, that it needeth not the knowledge of Armes? Why it is so careless, that it should despise the exercise, as a matter nothing pertaining to them? Certainly such security hath brought many a famous Citty of the world to ruine and misery: And London might oftentimes have been brought to the same praedicament, had not their Kings beene at hand to vanquish the insolency of Rebels by the force of Armes.47 The increasing preoccupation with specific historical examples of recent conflict in the argument for military preparedness allowed the military writers to present the Protestant cause as the principal rationale. 1623 saw the publication of A Tongue Combat, probably written by Thomas Scott, which takes the form of a long dialogue between M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:37 am Page 67 Good Friday, 1513 67 two soldiers ‘in a Tilte-Boat of Gravesend, the one going to serve the King of Spain, the other to serve the States Generall of the United Provinces’.48 The two soldiers, Red-Scarfe, supporting the Catholic side, and Tawney-Scarfe, the Protestants, argue in front of an audience in the boat the terms of a dynamic debate over the status of the Gospel and the justification for armed struggle in pursuit of their respective causes. Scott notes that ‘these twain gave each other their hand upon the conditions: and betweene them a TongueCombat, wherein neither of both were slaine or maimed’.49 TawneyScarfe argues for the position Elizabeth had taken in the previous century on behalf of laws and liberties, and also in support of old friends, yet: the third motive and the greatest, which outwent matter of State, was the maintenance of the Gospel, and the peaceable state of the true reformed Church, which began there to inlarge itself; and whereof as shee was styled, so shee intended to proove her selfe (and performed what she intended) a true Defendress of the Faith.50 In this text any general theological justification of war is far outweighed by discussion of recent political events and the crisis over the state of the Reformation. Red-Scarfe offers a particularly vitriolic attack on the person and politics of Elizabeth, which is met by Tawney-Scarfe’s account of the wickedness of Catholicism, with transubstantiation the principal doctrinal target and the Gunpowder Plot a manifestation of the political threat: and all the evidence which your eares have heard before the Judges on the Bench, and eyes have seen upon the Bridge, and tope of the Parliament house, can hardly persuade you to beleeve, that those Romane catholick crowes which now pearch above, did once plot and practise below to blow up the state.51 War is by this time thoroughly linked to the cause of Protestantism and texts such as this, moving from general theological debate to a pragmatic justification of war in terms of the battle for the Low Countries, begin to assume the notion of the ‘Christian Soldier’ as an armed combatant. The metaphor promoted by Erasmus has ultimately become literal – and the formerly spiritual campaigns tangible and deadly. The Puritan essayist Richard Bernard was responsible in the 1620s for one of the most comprehensive texts justifying war in the name of religion. Bernard joined other clerics of the period in attacking the residual strand of pacifism associated at this time with Anabaptists, M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 68 26/9/07 8:37 am Page 68 war and nation in the theatre of shakespeare whom he considers ‘but dreamers, for God is pleased to be called a man of Warre’.52 The Bible-Battels or the Sacred Art Military, was published in 1629 and is respectfully dedicated to the king, yet the tone is revealingly one of grievance, urging Charles to become the ‘Christian Soldier’ that Protestantism required: That fortolde by Christ is now verified: a noise there is of warres, and a rumour of wars. Nation riseth against Nation, and Kingdome against Kingdome and now, as John saw in the vision, is the Holy Citty trodden under foote; but yet there is hope. Stand therefore (o King) in the Forefront of the Lords Battailes; though not in person, yet in the power of Your Might, to suppresse the insolence of high hearted Enemies. Our cause is just, though God please a while to afflick us, miraculous deliveries we have had. Who was it that delivered us from the intended Invasion; who it was that prevented the hellish Powder-plot, who it was that freed us from many Treacheries and Treasons practised against us?53 While recognising that some practicalities of military training require updating, Bernard’s text insists that in broad terms the Bible offers a thorough description of the essential practicalities of training and military preparation for the seventeenth-century reader as well as a comprehensive theory of just war: Warre is the opposite to peace, and is by the prophet called evil; being the fruit of sinne, the punishment for sinne, yea so fearfull, as David once put to his choice, desired rather the pestilence, then the sword of an enemy. God hath warre with man, yea he hath some where sworne, that with some sorts, hee will have warre from generation to another for ever; there is no peace for the wicked.54 The sense of a fallen world constantly plagued by war not only ‘naturalises’ armed conflict but sanctions any war that is considered just since the instigator can claim the authority of God for the action that must follow. Bernard exhibits a consistent level of respect for Charles throughout the text, but there is also a curious insistence on authority and hierarchy that could be interpreted as recognition that Charles is somehow neglectful of his role. The long list of biblical wars cited include examples that indicate that war is justified when a certain kind of equilibrium has been lost, making a state ungovernable. The ‘first moover’ of all wars should be ‘the supreme authority in the State, whether it be Monarchicall, Aristocraticall, or any of the rest, by which the people of a state is governed’.55 There is something ironic about Charles being addressed in this way at a point when his authority was being challenged by groups within the state that were, M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:37 am Page 69 Good Friday, 1513 69 within two decades, to establish a government that could only be described, in Bernard’s words, as ‘any of the rest’. Indeed, Bernard includes at one point a set of terms about the just war that might almost apply to the case made for the wars against Charles in the 1640s: Reproaches offered and injuries done to principall men in a State is just cause for war . . . for high authority is sacred, and the injuries, reproach or contempt offered thereto, is not to passe unpunished.56 When the crisis between Charles and his Parliament came to a head, the apocalyptic tone of texts such as The Bible-Battels was ratified and particularised by military writers concerned to lend their support to one side or the other. A text attributed to ‘R. W.’, and published in 1642 as hostilities began, allied the general concept of the just war with a theological validation of the current dispute in support of Parliament’s cause.57 The notion of the ‘Christian Soldier’ is by now an established literal one and the forces that were to be raised in aid of Parliament’s cause were to be, in effect, the first concrete manifestation of much of what the military theorists had been advocating for decades. As Children through ignorance of the nature, and perill of Fire often times fall thereinto, and are burnt, so men not aquainted with the nature and danger of warre too often desire it, and too soone rush into it, to their owne ruin. And therefore we may see clearly, as in glasse, the true nature of this heavy plague of Warre, which now threatens our desolation, and the downfall of our Church and State. I have once againe stepte upon the Stage, and for the good of my Country, exposed myselfe to the fight, and censure of all eyes and tongues. Omitting wholly what I handled concerning Warre . . . in the Vindication of Parliament, and their proceedings; I will here lay down many things, concerning Warre in general and Civill Warre in particular. I. That Warre is not to be undertaken, but for just causes. II. That it belongs onely unto the Magistrate to make Warre, and not to private persons. III. That it is not to be moved, but repelled: not kindled but quenched: that is, rather for defence than offence: for the punishing of injuries, than the doing of wrong. All of which shows evidently the lawfulnesse of the Parliaments Warre, their Cause being Religion, and the Republic’s good. Themselves the greatest Magistrates, and of the greatest power and this designe of theirs declined as long as possibly they could, with the safety of the state.58 ‘R. W.’, then, offers a statement of theological justification for war that predicts the kind of ideological framework offered to members M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 70 26/9/07 8:37 am Page 70 war and nation in the theatre of shakespeare of the New Model Army itself. Ironically, this also hints at some of the (sub-magistrate) complaint that was to turn sections of Cromwell’s army against him. Significantly, this late text places a validation of the notion of the Christian Soldier in the mouth of Christ himself: If Christianity should blame, or tax all warrs, then when the souldiers asked Christ what they should do for the salvation of their soules, he would undoubtedly have bidden them to cast away their weapons, and to give over Warre, which he dothe not, but only forbids them to wrong any, and bids them to be content with their wages, which showes plainely that some warrs are lawfull, and therefore not to be condemned.59 The military writing produced in the years between Colet’s sermon at St Paul’s and the outbreak of war between Charles Stuart and Parliament offered a complex theological, political and philosophical argument that secured the concept of the just war and pushed to the margins any residual notions of pacifism. The military texts are unremittingly imperative in their tone, and although pacifism remained an alternative, in the theology of the Anabaptists for example, the polarity between war and peace became meaningless. To the military theorists, for example, civil war could be the outcome of domestic quietude, but foreign war was a guarantee of internal peace. Christian war could help maintain ‘true religion’ abroad and also guard against decadence at home, and as we shall see, constant preparedness for war, whilst dependent on militarising civilian life, enhanced the concept of the ideal citizen. Above all, in the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries, war became a ‘natural’ condition of humanity, explained by the ambition associated with the Fall, but sanctioned by God’s firm endorsement. The thread of Erasmus’s general opposition to war and Colet’s specific argument over the war in France had worn very thin by the time of the civil wars in the midseventeenth century. If it is to be glimpsed at all, it is within the theatrical performances that took place in the period between Colet and the Commonwealth. On balance it might be argued that the Reformers’ anti-war stance was, in the long history of Christian scriptural interpretation and exegesis, something of an anomaly, produced under the specific conditions of debate and revision at the time of the Reformation. Christopher Tyderman, taking account of the theological justification for the Crusades, has noted that ‘the so-called Charity texts of the New Testament that preached pacifism and forgiveness, not retaliation, were M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:37 am Page 71 Good Friday, 1513 71 firmly defined as applying to the beliefs and behaviour of the private person’.60 He notes passages from the Gospels and St Paul that can be read as distinguishing the spiritual from the political. By the time Colet preached his sermon, Christianity had had 1,500 years to establish its attitude to war. Saint Augustine’s fifth-century doctrine of the just war rehearsed Aristotle’s notion in The Politics that a war should only be fought to secure peace and never as an end in itself. It is interesting to compare Aristotle’s views on peace with those of the Renaissance military theorists. Like them, he saw the dangers of peace, but argued that the solution was for the lawgiver to organise leisure as actively as he organised war: And as for military training, the object in practising it regularly is not to bring into subjection those not deserving of such treatment, but to enable men (a) to save themselves from becoming subject to others, (b) to win a position of leadership, exercised for the benefit of the ruled, not with a view to being master of all, and (c) to exercise the rule of a master over those who deserve to be slaves. The lawgiver should make particularly sure that his aim in his legislation in general is to provide peace and leisure. And facts support theory here, for though most military states survive while they are fighting wars, they fall when they have established their rule. Like steel, they lose their fine temper when they are at peace; and the lawgiver who has not educated them to be able to employ their leisure is to blame.61 For Augustine, war originated in sin, but could be used to destroy sin. As Tyderman says: From Augustine’s diffuse comments on war could be identified four essential characteristics of a just war that were to underpin most subsequent discussions of the subject. A just war requires a just cause; its aims must be defensive or for the recovery of rightful possessions; legitimate authority must sanction it: those who fight must be motivated by right intent. Thus war, by nature sinful, could be a vehicle for the promotion of righteousness; war that is violent could, as some later medieval apologists maintained, act as a form of charitable love, to help victims of injustice. From Augustine’s categories developed the basis of Christian just war theory, as presented, for example, by Thomas Aquinas in the thirteenth century.62 That Aquinas, in his Summa Theologica, found it necessary to establish his more precise definition of the just war as a series of carefully honed responses to ‘objections’ to Christian warfare shows that the issue was one of considerable contention. Moreover, he plays on the distinction between the ‘private’ act of taking life versus the ‘public’ M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 72 26/9/07 8:37 am Page 72 war and nation in the theatre of shakespeare (state or Church) war, forbidding the former but sanctioning the latter, in a curious echo of the discussions about the biblical Charity texts. It is Aquinas, whose principles of the just war inform many modern examinations of the subject, whom Colet may have set out to contradict in his sermon for Henry VIII. Whatever the case, the strident nature of the Elizabethan and Stuart military theorists’ attack on residual Christian ‘objections’ admits the persistence of a strand of anti-war sentiment that they had to strive to overcome. As we shall see in the next chapter, their argument – extrapolated from the early notion of the ‘Christian Soldier’ by way of Augustine and Aquinas – expanded the issue to include a secular thesis concerning the benefits of militarism to the state. Militarism could not only condition and justify the theological and legal underpinning of the nation-state, but also guarantee a set of values associated with those individuals that would inhabit, and be identified as subjects of, the emerging form of state. As we shall also see, the theorists produced arguments concerning the relationship between civilian and military life, definitions of the militarised male as the epitome of masculinity, and above all a kind of ur-Orwellian blurring of distinctions between peace and war that are recognisable in the contemporary world. Notes 1. The group I am thinking of includes John Fisher, William Grocyn, Thomas Linacre and Thomas More. 2. The charge of heresy was brought by Bishop Fitzjames of London, but was dismissed by Archbishop Warham. 3. This is not to say that Colet would have approved of Henry’s subsequent argument with Rome, let alone the views of the secessionists. 4. This was not the first time that he preached against the wars in France. 5. See E. E. Reynolds (1965), Thomas More and Erasmus, London: Longman, p. 125, republished 2006 New York: Fordham University Press. Erasmus attacked the use of mercenaries in Military Affairs, The Soldier and the Cathusian and Cyclops. His account of Colet’s antiwar stance and relationship with Henry can be found in P. S. Allen, H. M. Allen and H. W. Garrod (eds) (1906–47), Opus Epistolarum Des. Erasmi Roterodami, Oxford: Oxford University Press, Vol. IV, pp. 373–4 and 526. 6. F. Seebohm (1887), The Oxford Reformers, London: Longman, pp. 265–6. See also J. H. Lupton (1909), Life of John Colet, London: George Bell. M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:37 am Page 73 Good Friday, 1513 73 7. Seebohm, Oxford Reformers, p. 165. 8. Ian Roy, ‘Towards the Standing Army’, in David Chandler (ed.) (1994), The Oxford Illustrated History of the British Army, Oxford: Oxford University Press, quotes a Welsh soldier’s view of the composition of one of these expeditions: ‘so many depraved, brutish soldiers from all nations under the sun – Welsh, English, Cornish, Manx, Scots, Spaniards, Gascons, Portingales [Portuguese], Italians, Albanians, Greeks, Turks, Tartars, Almains, Germans, Burgandians, Flemings, who had come here . . . to have a good time under the king of England, who by nature was too hospitable to foreigners’ (p. 30). 9. Tournai was temporarily held by Henry, and he seized Boulogne in 1544. Boulogne reverted to French sovereignty in the reign of Edward VI and Calais in the reign of Mary Tudor. 10. In fact, the French landed in the Isle of Wight in 1545, but were repulsed by local troops. Henry, meanwhile, was watching his flagship, the Mary Rose, sink in Portsmouth harbour. 11. Roy, in Chandler (ed.), The Oxford Illustrated History of the British Army, p. 39. 12. Geoffrey Parker (ed.) (1995), Warfare, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, pp. 146–7. 13. M. J. D. Cockle (1900), A Bibliography of English Military Books up to 1642 and Contemporary Foreign Works, London: Simpkin, Marshal, Hamilton, Kent & Co. 14. Niccolò Machiavelli (1560), The Arte of Warre, Written First in Italia by Niccolò Machiavelli and Set Forthe in English by Peter Whitehorne, London. Machiavelli’s thoughts on war seem to have found an audience. This volume was republished in 1574 and 1588. Versions of Machiavelli’s Libro dell’Arte della Guella were also published in Italian in London in the last two decades of the sixteenth century, fictitiously imprinted with Piacenza or Palermo as their place of origin. 15. Christine de Pisan (1498), The Boke of the Fayt of Armes and of Chyvalreye, London. 16. Henry J. Webb (1955), ‘Classical Histories and Elizabethan Soldiers’, Notes and Queries, Vol. 200, November, pp. 468–9. 17. The best example is Richard Bernard (1629), The Bible-Battels or the Sacred Art Military. For the rightly wageing of warre according to Holy Writ. Compiled for the use of all such valient Worthies, and vertuously Valerous Soutldiers, as upon all just occasions be ready to affront the Enemeies of God, our King, and Country, London. 18. See K. H. Göller (ed.) (1981), The Alliterative Morte Arthure: A Reassessment of the Poem, Bury St Edmunds: D. S. Brewer; Juliet Vale, Edward III and Chivalry, Bury St Edmunds: Boydell Press; Richard W. Kaeuper (1988), War, Justice and Public Order, Oxford: Clarendon Press. M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 74 26/9/07 8:37 am Page 74 war and nation in the theatre of shakespeare 19. Thomas Trussell (1619), The Soldier Pleading His Own Cause, London. 20. R. W. [Richard Ward?] (1642), The Anatomy of Warre, London, p. 10. 21. Göller, The Alliterative Morte Arthure, p. 16. 22. Desiderius Erasmus [1511], The Praise of Folly, trans. Leonard F. Dean (1946), Chicago: Chicago University Press, pp. 112–13. 23. John C. Olin (ed.) (1965), Christian Humanism and the Reformation: Selected Writings of Desiderius Erasmus, New York: Harper & Row. 24. Desiderius Erasmus (1522), ‘Military Affairs’, in The Colloquies of Erasmus (1965), trans. Craig R. Thompson, Chicago: Chicago University Press, p. 14. See also ‘The Soldier and the Carthusian’, ‘The Funeral’, ‘Chao’ and ‘Cyclops’ in the same volume. For an account of Erasmus’s pacificism, see John Huizinga (1957), Erasmus and the Age of Reformation, Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press. 25. Thomas More [1516], Utopia, ed. Edward Surtz SJ (1964), New Haven, CT: Yale University Press, p. 125. For a comparison between Erasmus and More on warfare, see M. M. Philips (1965), The Adages of Erasmus, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, pp. 114–16. 26. Anthony Kenny (1983), Thomas More, Oxford: Oxford University Press, pp. 34–5. 27. Thomas Digges (1604), Four Paradoxes, or Politique Discourses concerning Militarie Discipline, London, p. 109. 28. John Hale (1983), Renaissance War Studies, London: Hambledon Press, p. 487. See Martin Luther (1526), Ob Kriegsleute Auch in Seligem Stande Sein Können. 29. See Roland H. Bainton (1961), Christian Attitudes to War and Peace, New York: Abingdon Press, p. 145. 30. Hale, Renaissance War Studies, p. 490. 31. See H. Bender (1959), ‘The Pacifism of the Sixteenth-Century Anabaptists’, Mennonite Quarterly Review, Vol. XXX, pp. 7–9. 32. John Smythe (1590), Certain Discourses, written by Sir John Smythe, Knight: Concerning the formers and effects of divers sorts of weapons, and other verie important matters Militarie, greatlie mistaken by divers of our men of warre in these days; and chielfly, of the Mosquet, the Caliver and the Long-bow; As also, of the great sufficiencie, excellencie, and wonderful effects of Archers: With many notable examples and other particularities, by him presented for the benefite of this his native Countrie of England, London; ed. John Hale (1964), New York: Cornell University Press, p. 31. 33. Ibid. 34. Smythe, Certain Discourses, p. 34. 35. Ibid., p. 119. 36. Gyles Clayton (1591), The Approoved Order of Martiall Discipline, London, Sig. A. 3. M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:37 am Page 75 Good Friday, 1513 37. 38. 39. 40. 41. 42. 43. 44. 45. 46. 47. 48. 49. 50. 51. 52. 53. 54. 55. 56. 57. 58. 59. 60. 61. 62. 75 Gyles Clayton, The Approoved Order, Sig. A. 4. Gyles Clayton, The Approoved Order, Sig. B. 1. Gyles Clayton, The Approoved Order, Sig. B. 2. Gyles Clayton, The Approoved Order, Sig. H. 2. Thomas Trussell (1619), The Soldier Pleading His Own Cause, London. This text, as with many from the period, has varied systems of pagination. Trussell’s book begins with signatures and then adopts page numbers. This quotation is from Sig A. 2. Trussell, The Soldier, Sig. B. 4. Ibid. Trussell, The Soldier, Sig. C. 8. Ibid. Trussell, The Soldier, p. 21. Ibid., p. 26. Thomas Scott [?] (1623), A Tongue-Combat Lately Happening Betweene Two Englishe Souldiers in the Tilt-Boat of Gravesend, the One Going to Serve the King of Spaine, the Other to Serve the States Generall of the United Provinces. Wherein the Cause, Course, and Continuance of those Warres, is Debated and Declared, London. Scott [?], A Tongue-Combat, dedication. Ibid., p. 5. Ibid., p. 47. Richard Bernard (1629), The Bible-Battels or the Sacred Art Military, London, Epistle Dedicatorie. For a discussion of Bernard’s treatment of the Anabaptists, see Hale, Renaissance War Studies, p. 494. Ibid. Bernard, The Bible-Battels, pp. 9–10. This volume’s chapter titles reveal the way that the Bible offers illustrations of the practical concerns of military organisation and strategy: for example, ‘Of Prest Men and Volunteers’; ‘Of the Mustering and Choice of Souldier’; ‘Of the Disciplining of an Armie and Orderly Government thereof’; ‘Of the Evils to Bee Avoided in a Campe’, etc. Bernard, The Bible-Battels, p. 57. Ibid., pp. 43–5. ‘R. W.’ [Richard Ward?], The Anatomy of Warre. Ibid., p. 1. Ibid., p. 5. Christopher Tyderman (2006), God’s War: A New History of the Crusades, London: Allen Lane, pp. 29–30. See Aristotle, The Politics (1962), trans. T. A. Sinclair, London: Penguin, pp. 435–6. Tyderman (2006), God’s War, p. 34. M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:37 am Page 76 4 ‘THE DOUBLE-ARMED MAN’ 1 This chapter has a fantasy hero. It appears in the form of the extraordinary figure of a foot soldier who features in a series of illustrations in William Neade’s 1625 book of military theory and tactics, The Double-Armed Man.1 I shall return to him later, along with his mounted counterpart, leaving him for the moment standing, somewhat awkwardly in his spurs and heavy-looking armour, with longbow drawn and steadied against his pike, a full quiver of arrows on one side of his waist, and an elegantly hilted sword at the other. Neade’s text is one example from the wideranging canon of early modern documents that argued the case for an enhanced awareness of the military requirements of the developing late Tudor and early Stuart state, and the illustration is a perfect image of this canon’s relentless idealism. One of my concerns is with the way that this idealism was guaranteed for the reader by means of a not altogether untroubled marshalling of representations of medieval militarism and chivalry, classical models and current military fads and fashions. The ideological assumptions underpinning the approach of those who theorised the optimum Renaissance army – and thus the subjectivities of the individual soldiers that were to be recruited to it – are best seen when the model becomes overdetermined by the relentlessness of its idealism. Armies recruit individuals, yet notions of ‘individuality’ do not fit readily into the specialised human activity that is warfare: individual acts may be celebrated and rewarded, but in the ‘theatre’ of war their significance (as ‘soliloquies’ of war) depends on a collective ‘troupe’. The controversy over sexuality and identity in modern military institutions is precisely predicated on the dialectical relationship between the individual body of the soldier as a human resource, and the larger, corporate organisation that shapes but also relies on that individual resource. Militarism in the modern world, as in the early modern period, defines and conditions a highly specialised form of subjectivity. M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:37 am Page 77 ‘The Double-Armed Man’ 77 Some of the most resonant and decisive aspects of the unstable history of militarism and subjectivity are evident in late sixteenth- and early seventeenth-century England. If militarism can be thought of as a discourse governing the theory and practice of premeditated mass human conflict, then this was indeed a period of considerable transformation throughout Europe. It was not a period of all-consuming involvement by the English in warfare abroad, or indeed at home until the civil conflict that dominated the middle years of the seventeenth century. Yet neither could this period be regarded strictly as a time of peace, or one free from considerable military ambition. It was more a period of minor military adventures, many of them at sea, together with a steady commitment to military activity in France, Scotland, Ireland and the Low Countries. Yet it is precisely at this time of relative military inactivity that a widespread debate about the overall ideology of militarism was most determined. Indeed, it is possible to suggest that ideological debate in this period ‘settled’ a range of existing uncertainties to do with militarism that were transformed into a set of values and assumptions that have endured into the present century. They were certainly to underpin the more significant military establishment of the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries, thus facilitating the more or less constant engagement that characterised the growth and consolidation of the British Empire. The early modern English debate over military matters, which led to the construction of what may be termed the ‘gendered’ military subject, was part of a far larger discourse. Militarism is obviously linked, both literally and symbolically, to important issues of political change. Yet it is also connected to matters of day-to-day organisation, identity and consent that seep from the walls of the institution (the military) into an ideally respectful civilian population. Examination of the paradigm that emerges of the ideal and specifically gendered soldier (and the terms of his subjection to an overall military machine) reinforces the importance of matters of subjectivity and power to the developing early modern notion of statehood. In the ideal emerging Renaissance proto-state the values of the military are seamlessly the values of the populace, hence the importance of military display to public ritual in succeeding centuries – a matter I shall come to later. Much of this chapter is, then, concerned with the abundant English prose writing of early modern military theorists. It is in this that the ideal of the military subject is problematised and finally constructed (with an increasing determination) into a recognisable model for M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 78 26/9/07 8:37 am Page 78 war and nation in the theatre of shakespeare empire and for the individual. This was also a period rich in theatrical representations of warfare, ranging from depictions of classical military conflict, through narratives of English civil and dynastic warfare, to telling topical commentaries on late Tudor and early Stuart military activity. The public theatre can be said to have foregrounded the more unsettling aspects of the debate about gender and militarism that was being conducted in the military prose writing of the time. While the prose tended to ‘contain’ anxieties and discontinuities in the discourse of militarism, the theatre interrogated what some modern military historians have seen as a smooth ‘progression’ towards the settled, naturalised male soldier-subject during the period known as the English Renaissance. This effect is more to do with the dynamic of theatrical representation than with political resistance. It is fanciful to think that if the plays of Shakespeare and his contemporaries had offered a credible alternative to the inevitability of militarism – as a determining source of identity for the emerging state – warfare may have achieved less prominence and acceptance as part of the cultural condition of humanity. Yet the early modern theatre, like the agitprop political theatre of the late twentieth century, at least invites succeeding generations to glimpse a realm of difference and dissent. Apart from a few exception, the military texts of the period are listed either in the Short-Title Catalogue of Books Printed in England, Scotland and Ireland 1475–1640 or in M. J. D. Cockle’s Bibliography of English Military Books up to 1642, already alluded to.2 The reference I make to Cockle’s body of some 150 texts is necessarily selective, but I have privileged those that best exemplify the preoccupation their writers had with theoretical issues, and excluded those that concentrate simply on practical issues. However, texts dealing exclusively with practical matters of, say, gunnery, tactics or field surgery are exceedingly rare. There is a clear impulse in the work of these writers to preface or frame their work by a justification of its importance in wider political and ideological terms. This feature is in itself evidence of the highly sensitive nature of warfare as a topic, and the urgency of their arguments concerning the relationship between militarism and the state. Many of the texts, from the slim volumes of tactics, to the larger treatises on the ethics of war, announce themselves discursively in grand terms, citing the ‘art’ or, interestingly, the ‘science’ of war. Another feature of the body of work overall is the complex system of interdependence. The writers ‘borrowed’ from each other, or from earlier classical or foreign works, or from the Bible, often M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:37 am Page 79 ‘The Double-Armed Man’ 79 without acknowledging their sources. It is sometimes difficult to ascertain the origin of a particular line of thinking and, as Cockle discovered, the dating of the texts is a science in itself. Cockle’s list includes the significant number of foreign works that were either reprinted in London or circulated in their original form in England, one of which was particularly influential. Niccolò Machiavelli’s L’arte Della Guerra of 1519–21 was first translated into English by Peter Whitehorne, who published it with an extensive introduction and some additional material as The Arte of Warre in 1560.3 Of the European texts, Machiavelli’s commands a special place in the overall body of military writing available in early modern Britain, partly due to its wide circulation and frequent republication up to 1642. It can also be seen as ‘silently’ present in much of the work of the English military theorists, despite the fact that they disputed Machiavelli’s disinclination towards the idea of standing armies. In what remains a critical text on the reception of Machiavelli in England, The English Face of Machiavelli, Felix Raab argued in 1964 that there was a considerable demand for Machiavelli’s various writings in England during this period.4 Although they had been banned in the first half of the sixteenth century, Italian and French language manuscripts of his work circulated illegally.5 Towards the end of the century illicit Italian imprints of the Il Principe, the collected Discorsi and the original L’arte Della Guerra could be readily found in London, testifying to an impatience with the slow progress of translation following the lifting of the ban.6 The appeal of Machiavelli for English military theorists lay with his ideas on the establishment of an army that would be in constant readiness to defend, in Italian terms, the city-state, and could be deployed in pursuit of the Prince’s foreign policy. The Arte of Warre also contained useful details on the training and disciplining of soldiers, and Whitehorne included illustrations of battle formations and military camps. Furthermore, Machiavelli’s model chimed with developing English military theory in its firm opposition to the employment of mercenaries, a constant theme in the English works, which make frequent reference to the disastrous results of using such men in Henry VIII’s French wars. Machiavelli notes that the Italian citystates had similarly depended on mercenaries, despite their anachronistic cultivation (late into the fourteenth century) of the figure of the knight, who had in effect become the leader in the field of foreign troops. Machiavelli’s opposition to standing armies was derived from his celebration of the ideal of the ‘citizen-soldier’, and it is clear that M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 80 26/9/07 8:37 am Page 80 war and nation in the theatre of shakespeare certain elements of this ideal permeated early modern English military writing. In Machiavelli’s world the ideal male citizen would be physically strong and suitably trained and equipped to function when needed as a soldier: the ‘arte’ of war would complement the ‘arte’ of his trade or profession. This arrangement was informed by Machiavelli’s elaborate conception of the code of ‘virtù’, which applied in wider terms to his ideal of the state’s citizenry. But it also revealed an implied anxiety about professional soldiers in general, an anxiety that was subdued in English military theory, which mostly favoured professional soldiers in the pay of the Crown. J. G. A. Pocock has remarked that: The paradox developed in Machiavelli’s argument is that only a part-time soldier can be trusted to process a full-time commitment to the war and its purposes. A citizen called to arms, with a home and an occupation (arte) of his own, will wish to end the war and go home, where a mercenary, glad rather than sorry if the war drags on indefinitely, will make no attempt to win it.7 Machiavelli takes the argument further by stating that the citizensoldier system reinforces the authority of citizenship since military service, in this form, can in itself develop a sense of ‘virtù’ when the values associated with military ‘arte’ combine with a civilian professional ‘arte’. Pocock notes: The contention that only the soldier can be a good citizen is also made, but less explicitly. The thought implementing it is complex, but rests in part on some assertions made in the preface.8 The preface (or ‘proem’) celebrates the pagan gods of ancient Rome for their civic function in that society, yet the monotheism of contemporary Italy can also be accommodated since Machivelli’s ‘virtù’ reconciles military consciousness with theological integrity: In whome ought there to bee more feare of God, than in him, which every daie committyng himself to infintie perilles, hath moste neede of his helpe.9 This is something of a gesture towards Christianity however, as Machiavelli soon returns, in the dialogue form adopted by some of the English military theorists, to the classical form of militarised ‘virtù’: Cosimo: What thyngs are those, that you would induce like unto the antiquitie? Fabrica: To honour, and to reward vertue, not to despise povertie, to esteeme the maners and orders of warfare, to constrain the citezeins to M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:37 am Page 81 ‘The Double-Armed Man’ 81 love one an other, to live without sects, to esteme the private, than the publicke, and other like things . . .10 Where the English writers take issue with Machiavelli is with his notion of that all citizens should be soldiers, but although they preferred the idea of the professional soldier, they did acknowledge the benefits that the experienced soldier could bring to civilian life. In his introduction to The Arte of Warre, Whitehorne notes: It is to bee thought (that for the defence, maintenaunce, and advancemente of a Kyngome, or Common weale, or for the good and due observacion of peace, and administration of Justice in the same) no one thinge to be more profitable, necessarie, or more honourable, then the knowledge of service in warre, and dedes of armes.11 Indeed, Whitehorne exaggerates Machivalli’s views about the relationship between war and the state to set out an argument that is to become a central component of English military theory: that military activity guarantees or even enhances both prosperity and peace itself, since in the past: when through long and continued peace [societies] began to bee altogether given to pleasure and delicatenesse, little regardyng Martiall featres, nor suche as were expert in the practise thereof . . . [t]heir dominians and estates, did not so moche before increase and propere, as then by soche meanes and oversight, thei sodainly fell into decaie and utter ruine.12 Whitehorne establishes the overall proposal that peace is guaranteed only by a warlike spirit and constant preparation for war, concluding that ‘even Lady Peace her selfe, doeth in maner from these crave her chief defence and preservacion’.13 CLASSICS Classical writing on war gave a strategic weight to early modern military theory. Roman texts in particular were marshalled in a highly selective way or carefully reworked to show their relevance to contemporary England.14 Few works in the overall body of military writing espoused total commitment to classic models. Those that did include The Pathwaie to Martial Discipline, in which Thomas Styward recommended the reader to ‘prosecute the auncient order of the Romans’, right down to the adoption of Roman weaponry and equipment.15 However, the main emphasis was on adjusting the theory to take account of modern ballistics and other forms of technology. In his M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 82 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 82 war and nation in the theatre of shakespeare introduction to Bernadino de Mendoza’s Theorique and Practise of Warre, Sir Edward Hoby noted that the general theory of warfare had been: from the first creation of the worlde until nowe the verie same, the disposition of the people onely varying in the difference of weapons, engines, and instruments, which have bin invented.16 Thus the classic writers were part of a continuum and could reveal universal values and timeless truths about military matters. Sir Clement Edmondes observed in his Observations upon the Five First Books of Caesar’s Commentaries that there was a disparity between classical theory and contemporary experience and argued for a synthesis, since: It is not only experience and practice which maken a soldier worthie of his name, but the knowledge of the manifold accidents which arise from the variety of humane actions and this knowledge is onely to be learned in the registers of antiquitie and in histories, recoding the motions of former ages.17 Few texts argued for a complete detachment from classical theories of war. Those that did invited their readers to contrast reports of recent wars with the elevated scholasticism of contemporary texts that derived their rhetoric from the classics. Thomas Digges noted that ‘the Time was changed, the Warres were altered, and the furie of Ordinaunces such as those Roman Orders, were mere toyes’.18 MILITARY HISTORY From the earliest fifteenth-century accounts of chivalry to the late Caroline propaganda, there is a preoccupation with setting the contemporary and accelerating decay in military structures, and therefore the ill-preparedness of the state, against an idealised history. The common concern is with the urgent necessity for the state to maintain a powerful and efficient body of prepared and well-equipped men in order to deter invaders or to pursue just wars abroad on behalf of the monarchy. The writers discuss moral and religious justifications for warfare, the importance of classical models, foreign armies, model military leaders and contemporary attitudes to militarism. Most lament the decay of the medieval fief system through which the aristocracy could raise local men through feudal obligatory systems. Most call for the establishment of a standing army, or at least some M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 83 ‘The Double-Armed Man’ 83 action to prevent the seemingly terminal decline in the various militia systems that had evolved from the fief. It is worth noting how some military historians have responded to Tudor and Stuart military writing. For the last hundred years or so the view has been expressed in some quarters that it is evidence of an ‘enlightenment’ – substantiated by the recognition in the early writing that militarism was a ‘science’. Contradictions and hesitations in the canon of writing as a whole have been smoothed over in order to represent it as a homogeneous genre synchronically and one situated diachronically in a military continuum essentially unaffected by political change. It is a canon that embraces everything from Flavius Vegetius to the Falklands and beyond.19 Writing in 1926, Eric Sheppard was able to compensate for the fact that the Tudor and Stuart years saw little military activity by the English, and some decline in standards of military preparedness, by noting that: individual Englishmen were gaining experience in the armies of foreign powers and proving in Holland, France and Germany that the war-like virtues of the race had not been lost.20 A particularly influential historian called Robert Higham ignored an example of early seventeenth-century nostalgia in William Barriffe’s Military Discipline. Writing in 1939 Higham could only note a slight anachronism, since ‘it must be confessed that at one point Barriffe provides for the “beneficial use of bow and pike” and it may therefore be argued that his line, although modern and scientific, is less enlightened than it might be’.21 These are extreme and distant examples, but in fact the sense of contrast between the medieval and the early modern which is so central to the exhortations of the military writers was also disregarded by some post-war historians. The clear sense of crisis that underpinned the earlier writing is obscured by an optimistic comparison between the Tudor period and modern times by influential modern military historians such as Correlli Barnett. For Barnett, the militia system, based on levying men from the shires, proves by its very continuation during a time of social mobility that the Elizabethan period was one of unusual homogeneity: Elizabethan England was in social flux, some men (and families) rising and some falling. Perhaps for this reason stress was laid on the distinction of rank, yet this was a distinction of degree, rather than the absolute barrier of a distinction of kind. The society of an English shire was therefore homogeneous despite its differing social levels.22 M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 84 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 84 war and nation in the theatre of shakespeare The state of the Elizabethan militia system is considered not in comparison with the medieval but with modern engagements. Barnett notes that during five months in 1591 the 3,500 men sent to France to participate in the Protestant cause were reduced to 800 by neglect and disease. Yet the Elizabethan resistance to foreign service simply compares unfavourably with the more decisive national response of recent times so that ‘the ordinary people of Elizabethan England did not therefore spring to volunteer like their descendants of 1914’.23 The military climate of Elizabethan England was poor, but the social cohesion of this early period was to mature into a twentieth-century society enhanced by military awareness and responsibility. For other late twentieth-century commentators, the call to arms of the early modern military writers is uncritically explained as out of line with contemporary policy. John Hale has written that ‘whilst almost constant wars were absorbing the other European powers, England, from the security of her island position, was relatively unaffected’.24 These responses to Tudor and Stuart militarism do not acknowledge the clear sense of historical difference that is evident in the canon of military writing. Such Elizabethan and early Stuart nostalgia, something we might call ‘medievalism’, sought to evaluate the decay in contemporary military consciousness (and to qualify the resultant decline in standards) by reference to an earlier epoch – often unspecified temporally, unless particular battles were invoked – but one defined as history by three principal contingencies. It was the national history of ‘the English’, despite the involvement of the Welsh as historically instrumental to the victories which shaped the ideal. Secondly, it was a history which spoke of the homogeneity of the society which had forged it – an important aspect of a ‘medievalism’ which further revealed an anxiety over matters of social order in the present. Thirdly, it was a history that could be regained by attention to both the details and the philosophy of the new militarism. The substance and imperative form of this writing, and especially its preoccupation with revivals of the symbolic order and chivalric codes of the past, is partly explained by the absolutist project advanced during the late Tudor and early Stuart years. Such an explanation would also acknowledge a fear of popular unrest that is never far from the business of military order. Seen in this context, the latter day historiography that chooses to regard the military texts as expressive of some form of military ‘enlightenment’ is reductive and M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 85 ‘The Double-Armed Man’ 85 reactionary, especially when a rhetorical link is made with the present through the notion of a military continuum, as is often the case with those responsible, say, for the guardianship of regimental history and military museums. RESISTANCE Certainly, the imposition of military training and the recruitment or pressing of men into active service was proving a source of considerable discontent among those subject to such activities in the late sixteenth and early seventeenth centuries. It often resulted in disturbances that may have fuelled Shakespeare’s interest in military matters as he set about recording the very history that the military theorists allude to. Evidence of popular disturbances in the period has proved a contentious area of investigation among scholars. For some, acts of unrest have been exaggerated in order to represent them as determining an early class consciousness which is not justified by examination of their sporadic form and the fact that they were both disorganised and lacking an objective. Others have resisted this marginalisation and emphasised the widespread nature of the disturbances, regarding them as reconditioning later, trade-based combinations and popular political movements. Whatever the case it seems clear that the persistent pattern of disturbances which resulted in the use of the repressive Riot Act of 1411 and Tudor Statutes can be seen in the context of the quasi-absolutism being attempted by the Tudor and early Stuart governments. Certainly the Privy Council saw fit to record the instances and significance of many acts of ‘rebellion’. In the county of Essex alone, for which records are particularly detailed, anti-enclosure violence was reported in various areas before 1563, and there were repeated disturbances from 1567 to 1570 in Walthamstow.25 Note was made of ‘certain lewd persons’ who thought ‘to move some rebellion’ in the county in 1576, and there were riots in 1577 at South Weald and Brentwood, between 1582 and 1588 at Revenhall, at Burnham in 1584, Finchingfield in 1585, Halstead in 1586, 1587 and 1588, at Burnham (again) in 1589, at Waltham Abby in 1592, and so on until the failure of the harvests in 1595–7 led to more extensive rioting in London and the seizure of food along the grain roads of Somerset, Wiltshire and Kent in 1596.26 Edward Cheyney describes one particularly highly organised ‘rebellion’ in Oxfordshire from this troubled year. Three hundred men assembled, and: M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 86 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 86 war and nation in the theatre of shakespeare their plan was to attack the houses of six or eight of the neighbouring gentry, most of whom were known to be away at the time, and seize their horses, armour and victuals. There was some talk of cutting off gentlemen’s heads and tearing down the hedges that enclosed the old open fields and cut off the old cross-country road ways. They would go to the house of Lord Norris, Lord Lieutenant of Oxfordshire, where they could get weapons for 100 men. If they found themselves still weak, they would march to London where they believed the apprentices would join them.27 The so-called Midlands Rising of 1607 involved co-ordinated unrest throughout Warwickshire, Leicestershire and Nottinghamshire, and the Western Rising of 1626–32 spread from the Forest of Dean across the counties of south-west England following extensive food rioting in Somerset, Wiltshire, Hampshire, Berkshire, Sussex, Hertfordshire and Suffolk over the previous two years.28 The leading participants in the Western Rising were accused in Star Chamber of having ‘in Contempt of all Authority combined together and resolved to pull down all the present and ancient Inclosures’.29 Records of rioting in the period seem to suggest three principal but related areas of grievance: shortage of food, land enclosure (and the draining of the fens) and the imposition of military training. It is the last reason that establishes a link with the military writing of the period, produced in support of the state, but also as a critique of the state’s absolutist experiments. As the records of the Privy Council show, these continuing riots considerably preoccupied the offices of central government. Buchanan Sharp’s survey of the evidence concludes that ‘fear of riot, and of riot’s accompanying potential for overturning the established order, is a constant theme in Tudor and Stuart political pronouncements’.30 And where military training combined with other grievances, as was the case in the Forest of Dean disturbances, a major irony appeared in the relationship between public order and militarism. The late Tudor and early Stuart state had insufficient means with which to suppress popular unrest. And it also discovered that attempts to reconstitute the medieval fief system in order to raise men for foreign expeditions and to institute a disciplined internal police force (including the ‘trained bands’ of the larger towns) led in itself to further discontent. Thus Keith Wrightson’s account of the potentially more violent of these events concludes that the armed rioters were ‘simply employing the methods learned (and the equipment employed) at musters of the militia’.31 Wrightson is of the opinion that the early modern riot was ‘more in the nature of a controlled and remarkably disciplined demonstration M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 87 ‘The Double-Armed Man’ 87 than an abandonment of restraint on the part of the people’.32 Whatever the nature of these disturbances, it is clear that the system of raising and training men for domestic and foreign military duty had decayed at the opening of the seventeenth century. Not only was it a cause of riots, but it was a system too ineffectual to raise reliable forces in order to police the troubled state in the first place. Sharp continues: the tenacious resistance of such people to the Crown’s will made it imperative that all the police and judicial authority of the state be brought to bear for the punishment of the rioters and the prevention of further outbreaks; otherwise, politically dangerous and socially destabilising consequences were feared. But it became obvious in the course of this work that in the court of Star Chamber, commisions of the oyer and terminar, the posse, and the militia, the Stuart state lacked efficient or effectual means of repression.33 As far as overseas service was concerned, mutinies had not been uncommon during the last years of Elizabeth’s reign. Edward Cheyney reports that in 1595: there had been a serious mutiny of the drafted men of Norfolk, Suffolk and Essex at Ipswich . . . the men ‘utterly refusinge to goe beyond the seas’, disembarking after they had been put aboard, threatening to march on London, and stirring up the discontented masses of that old rebellious district.34 The pressing of soldiers – 17,800 for the wars in Europe and 2,292 for duty in Ireland between 1589 and 1596 – had resulted in the dual problems of potential mutiny and local resentment at the pressure of concentrated groups of ill-disciplined soldiers travelling to and from the wars.35 Furthermore, pragmatic attempts to introduce some order into the procedures for raising armies met resistance from members of the gentry, who were forced to fund and organise musters and supplies. Many questioned the legality of such impositions just as Parliament itself was to do in the Petition of Right over billeting in 1628, and over forced taxation (Ship Money) in 1634. Popular unrest in the early modern period never proved a material threat to the monarchy until it became allied to the more coherent causes of the mid-seventeenth century. Yet its continued re-emergence in the years during which these causes gathered momentum troubled an increasingly centralised state that was experimenting with a form of absolute government which, in marked contrast to similar endeavours in Europe, lacked the vital ingredient of a trained and disciplined standing army. Without the ability to impose its will by force, English quasi-absolutism relied on an expensive display of power in order to M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 88 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 88 war and nation in the theatre of shakespeare flood any channels through which discontent might flow towards the heart of the state. The limitation placed on the project of absolutism in England by an absence of the very military apparatus and medieval ideal espoused by the military writers had effects well beyond an inability to suppress the continual acts of unrest that plagued successive administrations. The crucial display of sovereign power was an expensive spectacle that required a concerted and coherent foreign policy (including a commitment to the Reformation) which would be seen to be effective. This necessitated the raising of an army and therefore consultation with a series of Stuart parliaments as increasingly unwilling to finance what proved to be a series of mismanaged adventures as they were to finance domestic extravagance. The English attempt to conjure a sense of absolutism led to a situation in which, lacking a repressive apparatus for internal policing (and thus the enforcing of consent), it nonetheless attempted a foreign policy which in itself required parliamentary approval. This highlights the importance of the relationship between domestic stability and foreign policy – a point discussed at length in the contemporary military writing. In terms of both technique and employment, the armies of England and the leading European states underwent considerable transformation during the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries when various forms of absolutism were being consolidated. Spain and France, with their large populations and constant military engagements, developed massive and sophisticated armies. England, meanwhile, could no longer participate in such extensive operations from across the Channel. The smaller (and lighter) medieval cross-Channel expeditions, which had characterised English rule and influence in northern France and beyond, could no longer be realised, and Henry VIII’s calamitous adventures in France, using levied armies, were the last serious attempts at major interventions on a scale to match the European rivals. Had he listened to Colet, he might have saved considerable face since these experiments both drained the exchequer and limited the prestige of the Tudors. When the later Tudor militarists sought to correct the mistakes of the recent past and to speculate on the qualities of an ideal military state, it is unsurprising that they had to draw on sources that included images of the feudal past. Thus they created a picture that was in sharp contrast to the realities of the recent situation. The raising of mass armies had produced no gain and still less acclaim, and even if naval power assured insular security, that in itself had led to the atrophy of the military body so essential to the M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 89 ‘The Double-Armed Man’ 89 absolutist project and the policing of the state. As to the remnants of the noble class whose celebrated ancestry was incorporated into the contemporary image of previous centuries, Perry Anderson has noted that: in the isolationist context of the island kingdom there was an exceptionally early demilitarisation of the noble class itself. In 1500 every English peer bore arms; by Elizabeth’s time, it has been calculated, only half the aristocracy had any fighting experience. On the eve of the Civil War in the 17th century, very few nobles had any military background.36 Demilitarisation of the aristocracy fuelled the polemic of the early modern militarists. It has to be reckoned against the inability, or refusal, of the Tudor and Stuart states to keep up with many facets of the technical revolution in weaponry which occurred in Europe from the mid-fourteenth century onwards. Whilst there was a considerable decline in the use of heavy cavalry, this was not compensated for by a widespread development in the use of gunpowder as a propellant. There is evidence of early enthusiasm, such as the English use of ‘crakys of war’ (gunshot) in action against the Scots in 1327, and ‘gonnes’ at Berwick in 1333, and Henry V had depended to some extent on artillery at the siege of Harfleur. Yet the rapid adoption of the cannon as a standard battlefield weapon in fifteenth-century Europe seems to have been ignored by the English military strategists. Despite Henry VIII’s interest in the manufacture of cannon and the importation of the latest types, this was in the end a limited initiative. R. C. Smail notes that ‘in the use of firearms by the infantry the English were even more hesitant. Their victories in France had made the archer and the longbow into objects of national pride, and they were reluctant to abandon them.’37 At the same time, English (and perhaps more damagingly Welsh) proficiency with the longbow declined to the point where it could no longer be relied on, as it had been at Crécy, Poitiers and Agincourt where bows had been perhaps more instrumental in victory than the vanguard of knights. It was against this background of military decline that some of the early modern militarists formulated a discourse that might be described as one of ‘medievalism’ – a nostalgia for an idealised chivalric order. In the climate of popular disorder, itself partly a result of the chaotic military structures which so poorly imitated those of the idealised past, these writers were impelled to construct a militarism that could combine the values of the past with a contemporary and innovative sense of what would constitute the relationship between M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 90 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 90 war and nation in the theatre of shakespeare the individual and the military institution, and between that institution and the state. DISCIPLINE, PURPOSE AND KNOWLEDGE It was a concern for the matters of character and discipline, a knowledge of arms and the ethics, and ultimately for the relationship between the soldier and the state which led the early modern militarists to speculate on the present decay that so clearly contrasted with an idealised past. As with many of these arguments, the medieval pattern that they glorify had to be tempered by modern conditions and politics. For the purposes of late sixteenth- and early seventeenthcentury polemic, the past was a place of clear military objectives and success, substantiated by the reputation of knights at home and abroad; thus images of the chivalric past are never summoned without indignation at the present decay. And there was a distinct agenda to do with masculinity in all this. Barnabe Rich, writing in 1578, accused the ‘carping cavillers’ of the court of having distilled and corrupted the English tradition of a militaristic nobility, by growing ‘lazy and greedy, wallowing in vice and wickednesse’ and by: Neglecting those disciplines which made them both honourable and worshipful – whose magnamitie in the times of warres hath made them famous in forrain countries, and whose nobleness and vertues . . . in times of peace, doe shine coequal with the best.38 Rich’s Allarme to England laments the passing of an age of nobility and virtue when the tournament (as in the Pas d’Armes) was actually a display of martial discipline, and scorns its transformation into the courtly jousting games and ‘soft and silken wars’ which Glynne Wickham confirms as having ‘lingered as a Court prerogative . . . conducted in the tiltyard by day and in the banquet hall as a climax to a masquerade by night’ into the early years of the seventeenth century.39 At stake in this lament is a sense of sexual difference, since in England: Gentlemen that are descended of honourable families in these days give themselves rather to become Battalus Knights [effeminate men] than Martiall Knights, and have better desire to be practised in Carpet trade than in that kind of virtue. To be shorte . . . in Englande, Gentlemen have robbed our women of their minds, and our women have bereved us of half our apparell.40 M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 91 ‘The Double-Armed Man’ 91 It would be a mistake, however, to conclude that such texts are simply conservative, recommending a wholesale return to the values of the ‘Martiall Knightes’. Rather, these values are to be renegotiated in important ways, almost with an awareness of the problems modern historians have associated with the dispersal of power inherent in a chivalric code that had legitimised private feuding instead of maintaining public order.41 The ideological project was to derive an image from the past of chivalric integrity, moral purpose and military discipline, which would be appropriate to the creation of a modern army. The aim of this was not only to represent abroad an increasingly centralised state, but also to provide an internal police force in order to forestall possible popular unrest, a threat which the early modern writers refer to throughout the canon of military texts. The ideal military structure would have to overcome the problems associated with the unpopularity of the militia system and its lack of quality as a fighting force. Barnabe Rich cites the case of London where: when they set forth soldiers, either they scoure their prisons of thives, or their streets of rogues and vagabonds . . . the name of a soldier is become so odious to the common people . . . God grant us that we never be given to trie the service of such people.42 By paying close attention to the recommendations of the military theorists, the status of the soldier in society would be fundamentally changed, since, according to Geoffrey Gates, the English in recent times: hath had that fault of being unnatural and unthankful to soldiers, for if England were not an island but stood in the continent of the world environed with mightie nations . . . then it should know the value of a soldier, and lick the dust off the feete of her men of prowesse: then would the lawyer and the merchant humble themselves to the warriers.43 Furthermore, there are a great many examples of the early modern militarists revealing that an established army would allow warfare abroad, which in turn would establish internal peace. For Peter Whitehorne, peace is guaranteed only by war, since earlier societies: when through long and continued peace, began to bee altogether given to pleasure and delicateness, little regardyng Martiall feates, nor such as were expert in the practise thereof: Their dominians and estates did not so moche before increase and prospere as then by soche meanes and oversight, thei sodainly fell into decaie and utter ruine.44 M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 92 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 92 war and nation in the theatre of shakespeare For Thomas Digges war was ‘sometimes lesse hurtfull, and more to be wisht in a well governed State than peace’ since peace promoted ‘ease and pleasure, two seducing Syrens in whose beastly servitude too many are intralled past recoveries’. And he recommends ‘forreine warre, a sovereigne medicine for domestical inconveniences. Desire warre rather than quietnesse, and therefore fall out at home if forreine foes the wanting’.45 In The Politicke and Militarie Discourses the idea of war as an insurance against civil unrest is expressed quite openly, since the ideal: Great estate replenished with warlike people, ought still to have some foreine warre wherewith to keepe it occupied, lest being at quiet they convert their weapons against each other.46 According to texts like this, the ‘warlike people’ would be inspired by displays of militarism presented in ‘publicke places of Exercise’, as had been the case in earlier times.47 An additional demand was that the modern military formation would consist of soldiers who had a clear knowledge of their own worth in the social formation and the worth of their cause. This knowledge, equivalent to that held individually by the idealised medieval knight, would, in the early modern ideal army, be held by each and every private soldier: In would seem requisite and necessarie that great regarde shoulde be used in the appointing of lawes, discipline, and orders, the which not only among themselves, but also to their utter enemies ought inviolaby to be kepte according to the iustice and equite of the cause for which they entred into armes.48 The militarist theorists are nostalgic for a concept of the knight, but aware also that if a parallel were to be made between the military formation and the social formation, then the modern soldier was to be a citizen rather than a king in miniature. The private, knowing soldier would submit himself willingly to the overall body of the army institution, know his weapons and his cause, and be self-motivated and active; he would be at the same time both the autonomous knight and the anonymous figure lost within the disciplined ranks of advancing soldiers, so that: He may well be called a trained soldier that knows by the sound of drum and trumpet, without any voice, when to march, fight, retire, etc.; that is able in marching, embattling and fighting; that has some sight in the mathematicals and in geometrical instruments, for the conveying of mines under the ground, to plant and manage great ordnance, to batter or beat M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 93 ‘The Double-Armed Man’ 93 down the walles of any towne or castle; that can measure altitude, lattitudes and longitudes, etc. Such a one may be termed in my opinion an expert soldier.49 In this way the early modern militarists forged an ideal of the soldieras-citizen, an expert and an example to others, able to police his fellow citizens and fight abroad, to know himself and his cause, and to strengthen his body so that it could strengthen the overall body of the army.50 Listing the qualities and skills which the public should expect in the soldiers they were to observe in the ‘publicke places of Exercise’, The Soldier Pleading His Own Cause includes ‘Obedient’ behaviour, ‘Secrecie’, ‘Sobriety’, ‘Courage’, ‘Loyalty’. The public was also to be able to assume that the soldiers were ‘Free from Bribes’, ‘Wise and Politicke’ and practised in such ‘Artes of Warre’ as ‘Arithmetick’ and ‘Geometry’, as well as having ‘Knowledge in Histories’ and the ability ‘to speak divers Languages’.51 That each soldier should have a ‘Knowledge in Histories’ is the key to early modern military idealism. It is a condition which makes sense of the disparate forces which underpin the demands of the writers: the chaotic militia system; the threat of popular discontent; the requirement for a national military identity; and the vulnerability of the absolutist state at the end of the sixteenth century. Early modern militarism, pragmatic, innovative and with a close awareness of technical advance, nonetheless proposed an ordering of the past which we might speak of as a form of ‘medievalism’. If the past could be regained, refashioned and revalued, then the future was assured. Typical of this process and, I want to suggest, representing an encoding of the whole sense of early modern ‘medievalism’, is the treatment of weaponry in the military texts where military idealism, linking images of the past with contemporary discontents, most closely reveals the ideological work of these texts. WEAPONS AND SYMBOLS Whilst acknowledging the considerable impact made on the military scene in Europe by the use of gunpowder, the early modern militarists were, in line with their ‘medievalism’, often reluctant to relinquish weapons which they thought of as symbolic of England’s triumphant military past. Humfrey Barwick’s insistence in 1594 that munitions should be adopted in order to restore the status England had enjoyed in history due to the use of the longbow, brought a swift response M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 94 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 94 war and nation in the theatre of shakespeare from a number of writers.52 In 1596, the writer known as ‘R. S.’, whose treatise was ‘abstracted out of ancient and modern writers’, promoted the particular effectiveness and ‘Englishness’ of the longbow and lamented its recent decline.53 Most texts, however, advocated a synthesis of the old and the new so that the bow could still yield its symbolic national significance, its ‘medievalism’, alongside such modern weapons as the musket. Just such a compromise had been suggested in Thomas Styward’s The Pathwaie to Martiall Discipline, a book which, in 1581, ‘entreateth of sundrie proportions and training of Calavers, and how to bring Bowes to a great perfection of service’.54 It is with the argument for a synthesis of old and new that I return to two of the best examples of this kind of ‘medievalism’, significantly taken from books which appeared towards the end of the long period of early modern military writing. These may be considered mature examples of the form and are characterised by a sense of overdetermination or fantasy in the presentation of the ideal soldier, totally removed from the conditions from which he has been recruited. William Neade’s The Double-Armed Man: By the New Invention: Briefly Shewing some Famous Exploits atchieved by our Brittish Bowmen was printed in 1625 at the ‘signe of the Gun in Pauls Alley’. It includes a series of illustrations of a soldier, described as a ‘pikeman’, in various attitudes, each displaying the use of one of his several weapons. In the frontispiece we see him standing with his bow steadied against his pike, and in a later illustration he is ‘croucht and charged for the horse with his sword drawne’, with his pike aimed at the advancing enemy: This Portraiture of charging for horse, is to shew that the Bow is very materiall for this service; for the five or six first ranks standing coucht at this charge, the middle and the reare may shoote their volleys of arrowes, and therewith both gaule, wound, disorder, and kill the enemy, both man and horse.55 This is the experienced, valued, expert soldier and in many ways the figure represents everything that could be desired in the contemporary ideal. The figure is strong in body, for how else could he maintain the unnatural crouch with one knee bent towards the enemy, his long pike set against his rear foot and extending through his left hand, his other leg stretched out behind him, and his sword raised above his head? Alert and ready, he is, in fact, with his sword, pike and bow, ‘triplearmed’. This is also the ideal masculine figure, embodying a sense of M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 95 ‘The Double-Armed Man’ 95 strength and diligence, which proves that training has distanced him from some more primitive state. The figure also contains an imprint of the ideal of earlier times since he is, in an odd way, also a medieval knight. His helmet is plumed, his armour is heavy and extends to the knee, and he is wearing spurs. In the actual battles of the late sixteenth and early seventeen centuries, a figure ‘of new invention’ is more likely to have been a musketeer. The accompanying ‘words of command’ for advancing ranks alternatively to ‘crouch low’ and ‘come up to your order, and shoot your arrows’ are those which apply to guns.56 Yet the ‘Double-Armed Man’ exactly encodes the ‘medievalism’ of the period, his bow and arrow aimed with the symbolic force of history. He is resonant with the values of both the old and the new: a restored masculinity, a modernised chivalry and the beard and ruff of the contemporary gentleman. This was an appealing image, since in his introduction to a facsimile of the text, Stephen V. Grancsay notes: A year before the publication of his work, Neade had presented the manuscript to Charles I who commanded that the author should exhibit his new weapon in St. James’ Park in his presence. The new exercise combining the use of the bow with the pike was performed before the King. Neade thereupon petitioned the King to make use of his new invention compulsory by law, and he and his son were shortly after authorized by Proclamation to instruct all those who are fit to exercise arms in the use of the weapon, ‘specially the chiefe officers and all others of our Trayned Bands’.57 Still more bizarre is an illustration from John Cruso’s Military Instructions for the Cavalerie.58 This text was produced only a decade or so before the engagements on English soil which motivated the actual introduction of many of the more workable recommendations concerning discipline, knowledge and expertise found in the texts – ironically enough, not on the side of absolutism but against it. The Knight illustrated in Cruso’s text would have fared badly against the New Model Army, but in 1632 he represents perfectly the medieval aspect of early modern militarism. He appears in twelve sequential illustrations, each labelled with the ‘words of command’, which will help the instructor discipline his cavalry as they mount their horses and prepare their weapons for an advance on the enemy. At first glance the elaborate armour, plumed helmet, high saddle and elegant, heavy horse (which trots through the sequence with dressaged discipline equal to that of its rider) are M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 96 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 96 war and nation in the theatre of shakespeare entirely medieval. It is not difficult to imagine him, like Peraldus’s Knight, with a shield of faith and an accompanying flight of doves representing the gifts of the Holy Spirit.59 Yet Cruso’s Knight is modern: he has no sword, shield or lance, and the ‘instructions for the Cavallerie’ are to ‘draw your pistoll’, ‘order your pistoll’, ‘lode your pistoll’, and so on. The medieval images that appeared in early modern military texts are witness to a crisis in the politics of a state determined on an absolutism which was never furnished with the essential component of a disciplined, equipped and motivated standing army. As a result of this absence, early modern English militarism steered an uneasy path between pursuing a revolution in military thinking (towards a modern, technically sophisticated army supplied with knowing ‘citizen soldiers’) and the retention of an iconography derived from a particular reading of history. The uncertainty of this ‘medievalism’ in the face of the chaos of actual attempts to participate in campaigns is the source of much examination and parody in early modern literature, particularly that produced for the contemporary stage. Romantic portrayals of medieval chivalry were to survive the upheavals of the mid-seventeenth century, of course, and have been cultivated ever since; but on the actual battlefield the ‘DoubleArmed Man’ would have found his arrows had little effect against Cromwell’s Ironsides. If we are in any doubt about what all this anxiety was about, there is another text that shows that the masculinity espoused in the idealism of the military theorists was balanced by the feminine nature of the lands and peoples that were to be subdued. The gendering of military and geopolitical concerns in this writing is nowhere more shockingly supplied than in an account of Ireland produced in the 1620s by the retired soldier, Luke Gernon: This Nymph of Ireland is at all points like a young wench that hath the green sickness for want of occupying. She is very fair of visage and hath a smooth skin of tender grass. Indeed, she is somewhat freckled (as the Irish are) – some parts darker than others. Her flesh is of a soft and delicate mold of earth, and her blue veins trailing through every part of her like rivulets. She hath one master vein called the Shannon, which passeth quite through her, and if it were not for one knot (one main rock), it were navigable from head to foot. She hath three other veins called the sisters – the Suir, the Nore, and the Barrow, which, rising at one spring, trail through her middle parts and join together in their going out. Her bones are of polished marble, the grey houses show like colleges, and being polished is M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 97 ‘The Double-Armed Man’ 97 most embellished. Her breasts are round hillocks of milk-yielding grass and that so fertile that they contend with the valleys. And betwixt her legs (for Ireland is full of havens) she hath an open harbor, but not much frequented. It is now since she was drawn out of rebellion some sixteen years and yet she wants a husband: she is not embraced; she is not hedged and ditched; there is no quickset put into her.60 Such erotic descriptions were calculated to reinforce the masculinity of the colonial project and to seduce the post-rebellion colonisers who were to be ‘planted’ in Ireland. Yet they also guaranteed the masculinity of the military enterprise that was to secure that project. In texts like this it is also possible to read that the soldier-subject was to be drawn away from any tendency towards domestic ‘rebellion’ at home as well as to the business of maintaining and planting postrebellion Ireland. The threat of unrest at home was altogether associated with the process of raising troops for the quasi-absolutist regimes of the late Tudors and early Stuarts. But state documents from the period are also full of embarrassed accounts of colonisers adopting the supposedly feminine trappings and language of the colonised. Edmund Spenser’s A View of the Present State of Ireland, written in the last decade of the sixteenth century, reported on this phenomenon among those populations ‘planted’ in Ireland in order to introduce Protestant politics and values, but who succumbed to the ‘feminine’ Irish language and the social mores of the culture they were supposed to eradicate.61 ‘PUBLICKE PLACES OF EXERCISE’ Despite Charles’s interest in staging a public performance of Neade’s ‘new invention’ it was adopted neither by the trained bands nor anyone else. But the idea of a display of armed men that would simultaneously celebrate the past and guarantee the future is suggestive in terms of the outcome of all this writing about matters of military discipline and the relationship between the army and the state. Many of the technical and organisational models advanced by the theorists of the sixteenth and early seventeenth centuries were adopted by both sides during the English civil wars but were particularly practised by Cromwell’s New Model Army. Cromwell’s activities in Scotland and Ireland during the years of the Commonwealth might also be said to epitomise the military theorists’ recommendations for soldiers who were theologically certain of their cause. Despite evidence of extensive demonstrations against the wars, many led by women, and M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 98 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 98 war and nation in the theatre of shakespeare Thomas Hobbes’s note that ‘there were very few of the common people that cared much for either of the causes’, the conflict established new military structures and within them, more ideologically committed soldiers than ever before.62 These structures also, of course, contained layers of discontent and bred institutional dissent, ranging from demands for back pay to the more politically charged discussions that took place in Putney in 1647. The Levellers’ demands for abolition of the monarchy, elections and an end to conscription were allied to the cause of the common soldier, even if their origins lay in the City of London. The Putney Debates raise a general point about the possible consequences of the kinds of military training and discipline advocated by the military theorists. On the one hand, armies of knowledgeable, articulate, literate and disciplined soldiers were more likely to produce victories, partly through their enhanced skills but also through their high level of motivation. At the same time such trained soldiers, had they the collective will, could also commit themselves to an alternative cause, demanding their rights or becoming subject only to their own commanders, as in the case of the coup d’état. The potential a state’s military wing has to separate itself off, act independently or threaten the populace which is supposed to serve is necessarily increased by educating its personnel. And improved communication between members of an army, whilst facilitating military activities, simultaneously provides channels for dissent. The structures of military organisation that grew from the demands of the military theorists, and were implemented by those in charge of latterday armies in Britain and elsewhere, perhaps reflect this tension between autonomy and integration as far as the relations between army and state are concerned. Soldiers have to remain special kinds of subject, convinced of the morality of the just war and willing to kill: yet they must not be special enough to become divorced from the state and the people for whom they are asked to do this particular kind of work. For this reason, early modern military training and organisation evolved intricate systems of performance, codes of identity and notions of cultural heritage that constantly reinforce the delicate balance between the state and the soldier to this day. One aspect of this can be found early on in Charles’s wish that Neade display his ‘new invention’ in public in St. James’ Park. Like many other countries, but perhaps with an exaggerated sense of its own heritage, modern Britain continually puts its armed services on display in the public realm: on a day-to-day basis, at recurring moments of celebration or political moment, or on special occasions. M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 99 ‘The Double-Armed Man’ 99 Soldiers in uniforms redolent of the long history of the British Army guard Buckingham Palace and establishments in nearby Whitehall. They escort the monarch at such events as the opening of Parliament, and parade at the annual ‘Trooping of the Colour’, representing the long tradition of royal command of the armed forces. Most of the leading members of the royal family are nominally members of one branch or other of the services and appear in uniform as part of these displays. Royal weddings, state funerals, jubilees and similar moments of national importance are all conducted against a background of military pomp. This traditional ‘presence’ is important for a number of reasons: a demonstration of authority; a reinforcing of the status and longevity of the monarchy; an underpinning of national pride. But it also shows the military to be linked to the state and to be somehow ‘available’ to the people. The military is not separated from the public, and in theory, almost anyone can enlist. Yet at the same time the armed services are special and separate. Their work involves the legitimate killing of others in pursuit of the (more or less) secular just war, and the very particular skills needed to perform such activity. The military is trained, equipped, housed and variously catered for in a discrete way that shows that even though its members are drawn from the public, they become something different from that public. What becomes apparent when one crosses the line that separates the civilian from the military subject is that the latter is a kind of exaggerated or ideal version of the former according to a whole range of qualifications, scales, values and judgements. Military life in Britain is organised according to rank, and rank still reflects and reinforces to a large degree the class formation of civilian society. It is also organised with little respect for privacy, the joke among new recruits being that this is the first thing a ‘private’ soldier loses. Military establishments ideally reproduce civilian life, with the trappings of the domestic: shops, places of entertainment, different types of housing for different ranks or according to marital status. Garrison towns are like towns on the outside world, but tidier, more efficient and better regulated. Military and naval bases, like ships, run according to strict timetables, and a sense of constant preparedness is reinforced by the fact that they are themselves defended by guards. The services have their own police forces and judicial systems, their own health care and catering corps. And within these miniature towns the inhabitants are ideally fit and strong, are clean, have ‘military’ bearing, practical haircuts and wear uniforms. They label their spaces with acronyms, salute each other, give and receive M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 100 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 100 war and nation in the theatre of shakespeare orders, and, like many professions, have special jokes and exclusive vocabularies. In a sense, this is all a performance, and one that is hard to be without on the outside world.63 What is being performed is a kind of ideal or at least heightened sense of how society is organised in civilian life, with all hesitations, weakness and inefficiency eliminated. The idea of military life as a model has not escaped those in the world outside. Some still occasionally recommend a return to conscription in Britain as a cure for juvenile delinquency and many endorsed the ‘boot camp’ training of young offenders that was particularly in vogue in Britain under John Major’s administration of the early 1990s. This was the period of Cabinet minister Michael Portillo’s ‘Don’t mess with the SAS speech’ and his plans as Secretary of State for Defence to extend the cadet corps in schools to allow every child over the age of thirteen an opportunity to join the ranks. A newspaper reported in January 1997: In line with Mr Major’s classless society, the popular image of the cadets as a coterie of public-school patriots would change, as Mr Portillo said yesterday, to mean ‘excellent opportunities for all young people . . . to play a marvellous role on our society [sic]. They help young people towards the good values of life, towards self-esteem, self-discipline, team work and respect for others’.64 What such exhortations miss is not so much the flaws in the ideal of military life itself, which I shall return to in the last chapter, but the fact that recruits to the forces experience not just the immediate security (or severity) of the service life. In Britain and elsewhere, they are also asked to entertain a seductive and comprehensive set of historical traditions. Such traditions are scrupulously upheld. In the army, for example, the history of the regiment, its colours, uniforms and earlier campaigns are celebrated and held in considerable regard, not only through rituals and commemorations but also in regimental museums, libraries and galleries. Regiments often compete with each other, resist amalgamation with other regiments, and offer a determined focus of identity for the new recruit. History for modern service personnel is arguably as important as chivalry or the symbolism of the bow was for the early modern militarists, and the older the regiment, the deeper the significance. ‘Monck’s Regiment of Foot’, for example, was commissioned in 1650 as part of the New Model Army. Instrumental in the restoration of the monarchy in 1660, Monck’s men avoided the general disbanding of the army, finding favour with Charles II by quelling a revolt in January 1661. In February they M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 101 ‘The Double-Armed Man’ 101 paraded at Tower Hill and symbolically laid down their arms, renouncing their association with the New Model Army and becoming part of the New Standing Army. They were renamed the ‘Coldstream’ Regiment of Guards after the Scottish village from which they had marched to London to prepare the way for the king’s return from France. All regiments have their histories, but the Coldstream Guards have a special significance since they evolved from the New Model Army which was based on models from abroad and disciplines derived from the pages of the Elizabethan and early Stuart military theorists. In their present role, as a ‘household regiment’ protecting the queen, or on active, often peacekeeping, service around the world, they carry with them the force of that theory mediated by their own campaigning history. What their history does not admit is its basis in ideas that draw largely on a constructed image of masculinity, a marshalling of God’s sanction in the pursuit of war and a marked hostility to peace – a concept greeted in various texts with nothing more than a sneer. Notes 1. William Neade (1625), The Double-Armed Man: By the New Invention: Briefly Shewing some Famous Exploits atchieved by our Brittish Bowmen, London, reproduced in facsimile with an introduction by Stephen V. Grancsay (1971), York, PA: George Shumway. 2. A. W. Pollard and R. R. Redgrave (1926), A Short-Title Catalogue of Books Printed in England, Scotland and Ireland 1475–1640, London: The Bibliographical Society; and M. J. D. Cockle (1900), A Bibliography of English Military Books up to 1642 and Contemporary Foreign Works, London: Simpkin, Marshall, Hamilton, Kent & Co. 3. Niccolò Machiavelli (1560), The Arte of Warre, written first in Italia by Nicolas Machiavelli and set for the in Englishe by Peter Whitehorne, studient of Graies Inne: with an additio of other Marcialle featres and experiments, London. This translation was reprinted in 1563, 1573 and 1588. It was edited by Henry Curt (1905) as Niccolò Machiavelli – ‘The Arte of Warre’ and ‘The Prince’, London. My references are to this edition. 4. Felix Raab (1964), The English Face of Machiavelli: A Changing Interpretation 1500–1700, London: Routledge & Kegan Paul. 5. For an account of this demand see ibid., pp. 30–76. 6. I Discorsi and Il Principe were printed as pirated editions in London by John Wolfe in 1584 with the fictitious imprint ‘Palermo’. Wolfe was also responsible for illicit Italian editions of Istorie Fiorentine (imprinted ‘Piacenza’) and Il Libro dell’Arte della Guerra (imprinted ‘Palermo’) in 1587. M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 102 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 102 war and nation in the theatre of shakespeare 7. J. G. A. Pocock (1975), The Machiavellian Moment, Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press, p. 200. 8. Ibid., p. 201. 9. Machiavelli, The Arte of Warre, p. 14. 10. Ibid., p. 31. 11. Ibid., pp. 3–4. 12. Ibid. p. 6. 13. Ibid. 14. The work of the classical military writers Ælian, Modestus, Sextus Julius Frontius and Publius FlaviusVegetius Renatus were often bound together in one volume from the late fifteenth century. The writings of Xenophon, Orbicius, Apsyrtus, Leo, Constantine, Polyænus and Polybius, all with military themes, appeared during the sixteenth century. See Cockle, English Military Books, p. xvii. 15. Thomas Styward (1581), The Pathwaie to Martial Discipline, devided into two Bookes, verie necessarie for yong Souldiers, or for all such as loveth the profession of Armes, London, Sig. A. iv. R. 16. Bernadino de Mendoza (1597), Theorique and Practise of Warre, Written to Don Philip Prince of Castil, by Mendoza. Translated out of the Castilian Tonge into Englishe, by Sr. Edwarde Hoby Knight, London, Sig, A. 4r. 17. Sir Clement Edmondes (1581), Observations upon the five first bookes of Caesars Commentaries, setting forth the practise on the art military, in the time of the Roman Empire. Wherein are handled all the chiefest points of their discipline, with the true reasons of every part, together with such instructions as may be drawne from their proceedings, for the better direction of our moderne wars, London, Sig. *ijr. 18. Thomas Digges (1590), An Arithmeticall warlike Treatise named Stratiotics . . . As well concerning the Science or Art of great Artillerie, as the Offices of the Sergeant Major Generall, the Coronall Generall, and Lord Marshall, with a conference of the English, French and Spanish Disciplines, beside sundry other Militarie Discourses of no small importance, London, title-page. 19. The most productive period for this kind of writing was the end of the nineteenth century, and some of the best examples are: Sir Sibbald Scott (1868), The British Army: Origin, Programme and Equipment, London: Cassell; Clifford Walton (1894), History of the British Standing Army, London: Harrison & Sons; C. M. Clode (1869), The Military Forces of the Crown, London: John Murray. 20. Eric Shepperd (1926), A Short History of the British Army to 1914, London: Constable. 21. Robin Higham (1972), A Guide to the Sources of British Military History, London: Routledge & Kegan Paul, p. 1. M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 103 ‘The Double-Armed Man’ 103 22. Correlli Barnett (1970), Britain and Her Army, 1509–1970: A Military, Political and Social Survey, New York: William Morrow, pp. 31–2. 23. Ibid., p. 41. 24. John Hale (1961), The Art of War and Renaissance England, Washington: Folger Library. 25. Acts of the Privy Council, VIII, 137. 26. Ibid., IX, 182, 187–8, 263 and 373. 27. Edward P. Cheyney (1926), A History of England, 2 vols, London: Longman, Vol. II, Pt v, p. 33. 28. The events which occurred in the Forest of Dean were highly organised, when ‘some 500 men “did wilt two drums, two coulers and one fife in a warlike and outragious manner assemble themselves together armed with gunnes, pykes, halberds and other weapons” and set off to cast down enclosure’. See Keith Wrightson (1982), English Society, 1580–1680, London: Hutchinson, pp. 150–1. 29. Acts of the Privy Council, X, 12, 16, 34, 141, and XXII, 537 and 557. 30. Buchanan Sharp (1980), In Contempt of All Authority, Berkeley, CA: California University Press, pp. 3–4; Wrightson, English Society, 1580–1680, pp. 6–7. 31. Wrightson, English Society, 1580–1680, pp. 6–7. 32. Ibid. 33. Sharp, In Contempt of All Authority, pp. 6–7. 34. Cheyney, A History of England, Vol. II, p. 28. 35. In the spring of 1596 fewer than 200 men returned to Essex from the 2,000 pressed for military service abroad that year, a statistic that led Sir John Smythe to attempt a rebellion during the muster of a further 1,000 men destined for a similar fate – an act of disloyalty explained by Lord Burghley as ‘by reason of his drinking in the morning of a great deal of white wine and sack’ in the White Hart, Colchester. Smythe was in fact a leading military theorist of his time who ‘had discussed the legality of sending pressed men for service overseas with Manwood, Lord chief Baron’, according to his editor, John Hale. See his edition (1964) of Smythe’s Certain Discourses, New York: Cornell University Press. Smythe’s book was originally published in 1590. 36. Perry Anderson (1974), Lineages of the Absolutist State, London: Verso, p. 125. See also Lawrence Stone (1967), The Crisis of the Aristocracy, London: Oxford University Press, pp. 199–270. 37. R. C. Smail (1958), ‘The Art of War’, in Austin Lane Poole (ed.), Medieval England, Oxford: Clarendon Press, pp. 128–67, esp. pp. 162–3. 38. Barnabe Rich (1578), Allarme to England, foreshewing what perilles are procured when people live without regarde to Martiall Lawe, London, sig. C.iii. M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 104 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 104 war and nation in the theatre of shakespeare 39. Glynne Wickham (1974), The Medieval Theatre, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, p. 155. 40. Rich, Allarme to England, sig. H. 41. See Richard W. Kaepaur (1988), War, Justice and Public Order, Oxford: Clarendon Press. 42. Rich, Allarme to England, sig. K iiii. 43. Geoffrey Gates (1579), The Defence of Militarie Profession, London, pp. 9–10. 44. Henry Curt (ed.) (1905), Niccolò Machiavelli: ‘The Arte of Warre’ and ‘The Prince’ . . . Englished by P. Whitehorne, London, p. 6. 45. Digges, Four Paradoxes, p. 104. 46. François De La Noue (1587), The Politicke and Militarie Discourses, London, p. 124. 47. Digges, Four Paradoxes, p. 51. 48. Rich, Allarme to England, sig. I. 49. Thomas Smith (1616), The Arte of Gunnerie, London, sigs. Aii. R–v. 50. These qualities, combined in the individual soldier bound to the larger institution, are increasingly referred to through the metaphor of the body. The best example is James Achesome (1629), The Military Garden, Or Instructions For All Young Soldiers, London. 51. Trussell, The Soldier Pleading His Own Cause, Introduction. 52. Humfrey Barwick (1594), A Briefe Discourse, Concerning the force and effect of all manuell weapons of fire and the disability of the Long Bowe of Archery, in respect of other of greater force now in use, London. 53. R. S. (1696), A Briefe Treatise, To Proove the necessitie and excellance of the use of archerie, London. 54. Thomas Styward (1581), The Pathwaie to Martiall Discipline, devided into two Bookes, rerie necessarie for yong Souldiers or for all such as loreth the profession of Armes, London, title-page. 55. William Neade (1625), The Double-Armed Man, reproduced in facsimile with an introduction by Stephen V. Grancsay (1971), York, PA: George Shumway. 56. Ibid., p. 48. 57. Ibid., p. 6. See ‘A Proclamation for the use of the Bowe & the Pike together in Militarie Discipline’, London, 1633, in Francis Grose (1801), Military Antiquities, Vol. 2, London, pp. 173–4. 58. John Cruso (1632), Military Instructions for the Cavallerie, London. 59. Gulielmus Peraldus (c. 1236), Summa de Vitiis. 60. Luke Gernon (1620), A Discourse of Ireland, London, p. 15. 61. Edmund Spenser [written c. 1596, published 1633] (1970), A View of the Present State of Ireland, Oxford: Oxford University Press. 62. For evidence of popular opposition to the civil conflict of the midseventeenth century, see Charles Carlton (1992), Going to the Wars: The Experience of the English Civil Wars 1638–1651, London and M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 105 ‘The Double-Armed Man’ 105 New York: Routledge. For an account of Hobbes on the war, see B. Manning (1957), ‘Neutrals and Neutralism in the English Civil War’, PhD thesis, Oxford University. 63. I am thinking here of the difficulties service personnel sometimes have in adjusting to civilian life after long periods in the forces, whether or not they have been actively engaged in fighting. 64. The Independent, 24 January 1997, p. 3. M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 106 M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 107 Part III Shakespeare and the Wars M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 108 M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 109 5 ‘WE BAND OF BROTHERS’ 1 Richard’s is the most fulsome sneer of all. Tudor pro-war polemic managed its sustained attack on any remaining vestiges of Christian pacifism by means of a steady and usually high-minded appeal to its readers’ sense of history, logic and common sense. Yet, as we have seen, the rhetoric involved in these treatises occasionally descended into simple invective, especially in the work of Barnabe Rich and particularly around issues of nationality and masculinity. Men were, it seems, becoming ‘effeminate’ and thus, somehow, ‘forgetting themselves’ and contributing to the trends that had led to the increasing vulnerability of their country. These writers considered the lack of a military apparatus as a fissure in the nation’s defences, despite the coastal fortifications and naval might, and they also saw the absence of war as a threat to internal stability. While they were busy lamenting the decadence that accompanied peace, a figure stepped onto the English stage that apparently thought much the same as they did about the relationship between war, gender and nation. The opening lines of The Tragedy of Richard the Third are so familiar that we perhaps hear them without listening to the binary between gender and war, one that would have been very familiar to anyone in the audience even casually versed in the military writing of the immediate period: Now is the winter of our discontent Made glorious summer by this son of York; And all the clouds that loured upon our house In the deep bosom of the ocean buried. Now are our brows bound with victorious wreaths, Our bruisèd arms hung up for monuments, Our stern alarums changed to merry meetings, Our dreadful marches to delightful measures. Grim-visaged war hath smoothed his wrinkled front, And now – instead of mounting barbèd steeds To fright the souls of fearful adversaries – M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 110 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 110 war and nation in the theatre of shakespeare He capers nimbly in a lady’s chamber To the lascivious pleasing of a lute.1 (I.i.1–13) No figure in the theatre of the time speaks more contemptuously of the decadence of peace or so clearly defines a discourse of masculine militarism. In his 1981 edition of Richard III Antony Hammond points out that the opening two lines recall, among other earlier texts, Sir Philip Sidney’s Astrophel and Stella, published as a pirated edition in 1591, a year before Shakespeare’s play: ‘Gone is the winter of my miserie, / My spring appears . . .’2 Hammond claims that the line is ‘almost proverbial’, which is rather appropriate in the context of Shakespeare’s dramatisation of the Tudor chroniclers’ history of the Plantagenets.3 Now that Edward IV has been restored to the throne, Richard is repeating here something like the official post-war line. Shakespeare swaps ‘summer’ for spring to allow the ‘sun/son’ pun in connection with Edward, who had the sun as a heraldic device, and the extra syllable in the line invites the actor to emphasise ‘glorious’ in a sarcastic way if so desired. The seasonal allusion sets up the content and tone of the speech that it begins, with its determined sense of barren winter followed by fertile spring and summer. As with much of what Shakespeare gives his Richard to say, there is strong sense of irony here, given the carnage to come and the fact that the promising ‘son’ of York will soon be on his deathbed. The imagery continues with two lines that form an oddly implausible sequence: ‘clouds that loured’ are ‘buried’ in the ‘deep bosom of the ocean’. It is as if Shakespeare fabricates what sounds like a brittle kind of cliché in order to reinforce the fragility of the peace that has seemingly been assured by recent events. As it was to those arguing against peace while Shakespeare was writing and staging the play, the absence of war is associated here with pleasure, and, by implication, with sensual activities relating to women. As soon as war gives way to mere celebration (‘our brows bound with victorious wreaths’) and remembrance (‘Our bruisèd arms hung up for monuments’) a space is opened that will be filled by casual delights and, specifically, sexual distractions. Clearly there are continuities in the realm of metaphor and imagery between courtship and warfare, war and dance, but for Richard, ‘merry meetings’ and ‘delightful measures’ are what we succumb to when peace is restored, potentially seducing even War (himself) into capering in a lady’s chamber. Shakespeare seems to have borrowed the association from Christopher Marlowe’s Tamburlaine, M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 111 ‘We band of brothers’ 111 whose sons strike him at the beginning of the second part of Tamburlaine the Great, printed in 1590, as far ‘too dainty for the wars’: Their fingers made to quaver on a lute, Their arms to hang about a lady’s neck, Their legs to dance and caper in the air Would make me think them bastards, not my sons.4 (I.iii.29–32) Richard may adapt lines from the earlier play, but Tamburlaine, as we shall see in a later chapter, is not really a suitable alter-ego for Shakespeare’s warlike usurper. Richard’s menace, in this play at least, is demonstrated by his verbal dexterity, the acquisitive nature (and gullibility) of those around him – and his repeated use of private assassination and the public axe as the means by which to clear a way to the throne. Interestingly, two of the better-known film adaptations of Richard III have presented Richard as a kind of fascist figure, with the Second World War very much in mind as a context in which to make the play intelligible to modern audiences. Laurence Olivier’s version, inspired by his many wartime performances of the role of Richard, was released in April 1955. Although set in a colourfully designed medieval (but clearly not Merrie) England, it was received as a kind of meditation on the capacity for individual evil so recently embodied in the figure of Adolf Hitler.5 Olivier had hoped to boost wartime morale with his film of Henry V, released in November 1944 and famously dedicated to ‘the Commandos and Airborne Troops of Great Britain’. With Richard III he again wanted to reach a popular audience, this time implying parallels between Shakespeare’s representation of a figure from the Tudor chronicles and the twentieth century’s own superlative demon. Shakespeare offered mid-twentieth-century audiences both the inspiration for anti-fascist resistance and a study of the kind of psychology that had seduced and misled the German people. Olivier was not the first to see the possibilities of associating Richard with Hitler. Bertolt Brecht’s 1941 play Der Aufhaltsame Aufstieg des Arturo Ui (The Resistible Rise of Arturo Ui) was a ‘parable’ for the theatre.6 It had apparently been developed from an earlier prose work set in classical Italy, which Walter Benjamin described as ‘a satire on Hitler in the style of a Renaissance historian’.7 The American setting for Brecht’s play provided a structure of M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 112 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 112 war and nation in the theatre of shakespeare analogy that traced the rise of a petty gangster, Arturo Ui, from streetcorner bully to military dictator. Brecht’s episodic scene structure, his use of a Prologue, an Epilogue and other devices, owed much to classical theatrical models as well as to the plays of Shakespeare and his contemporaries. The first appearance of the figure of Arturo Ui/Adolf Hitler is accompanied by an Announcer’s remark: Doesn’t he make you think of Richard the Third? Has anybody ever heard Of blood so ghoulishly and lavishly shed Since wars were fought for roses white and red? (Prologue, 38–41) Arturo Ui raises questions concerning the status and effect of Shakespeare’s language that are central to Brecht’s exploration of political persuasion and militarist rhetoric.8 In a later scene (scene 6) Mark Antony’s speech from Act III of Julius Caesar is evoked. A world-weary actor is summoned to coach Ui, the Richard-like gangster, to walk, talk and persuade a crowd in a way that recalls the filmed images and commentators’ accounts of Hitler at work. The actor is keen to impress upon Ui that Shakespeare offers ‘the grand style’ that will suit Ui’s sense of domination over his listeners. This is usually very humorous in performance. And although we should heed Brecht’s remark that ‘it is risky to encourage a people to laugh at a potentate after once failing to take him seriously’, there is something enormously suggestive about Brecht’s appropriation of Shakespeare’s Richard for the purposes of his overtly political epic theatre.9 The ageing actor’s choice of Mark Antony’s speech clearly contains an irony for an audience that knows Shakespeare’s play; and the figure of the actor is itself a joke at the expense of an outmoded tradition of English classical acting. Yet notwithstanding this, the idea of Shakespearean verse as an epitome of rhetoric, and the ease with which Ui masters it, open up the structures of power and language in both Shakespeare’s plays and Arturo Ui. Brecht’s play uses the speech from Julius Caesar in a seemingly unmediated way (in terms of the qualities of rhetoric) that depends on a range of assumptions about Shakespeare’s language. At one level there is the customary elevation of Shakespeare to a symbol of cultural worth. The actor is keen to impress upon Ui that, although he has himself been ‘ruined by Shakespeare’, the Bard offers much that will suit Ui’s sense of domination over his listeners. It is an aesthetic that knows no history, since the actor claims that ‘Art knows no calendar’. Yet Arturo Ui and his M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 113 ‘We band of brothers’ 113 gang have little idea about what Shakespeare means in these terms, so that at another level the focus is on the sheer power, the theatricality, of Shakespearean language. In Brecht’s play this is clearly very accessible. Its transforming power can be apprehended in minutes as Ui takes over the speech and begins to deliver it with a menace that presages his later militaristic speeches. It is a kind of sleight-of-hand that will empower the individual who learns the trick. As Ui remarks, he is ‘not trying to convince professors / And smart-alecks. My object is the little / man’s image of his master’. It matters little what a professor (or a smart aleck) thinks but it does matter what the little man’s image of his master is, and this gives Shakespeare a highly charged and peculiarly compelling symbolic role in Brecht’s play. The point is clearly one of form over content as Ui’s remark about professors makes clear, and the force of the speech lies in the audience’s recognising it as a medium for persuasion, an index of mastery and the appropriate register for war. The makers of another screen version of Richard III were aware of Brecht’s allusions to Shakespeare’s play. Richard Eyre’s innovative production for the Royal National Theatre inspired a popular 1995 film directed by Richard Loncraine. Ian McKellen played Richard, as he had done for Eyre in the theatre, and with Loncraine’s help, he was responsible for writing the film’s imaginative screenplay. In a fascinating introduction to his annotated text of this heavily cut but beautifully crafted adaptation of Shakespeare’s play, McKellen describes the way that Eyre’s interpretation had been ‘translated’ for the cinema, fixing it on celluloid for all time: Previous Richard IIIs, like David Garrick and Henry Irving, even my contemporaries like Al Pacino and Antony Sher, still trail glory, but despite prints and photographs, memoirs and memorabilia, their success is no longer tangible.10 McKellen notes that in transferring a production from stage to screen, he and Loncraine were following the precedent set by Olivier. Despite the subtlety of the allusion in Olivier’s case, the result is that both major screen versions of the play from the second half of the twentieth century invoked an association between Richard and Hitler. The Loncraine film, following the theme established by the stage production, set Shakespeare’s play in a decadent 1930s England, a stylishly and superficially attractive art deco world, but one that has clearly ‘fallen’ as a result of its inhabitants’ vast appetites for power and position. The ‘piping peace’ that Richard evokes in the second half of his M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 114 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 114 war and nation in the theatre of shakespeare opening speech has produced a world of enormous excess, lubricated by alcohol and drugs, and defined in part by the allure of sexual desire. Richard still consolidates his position and gains the crown through the means described by Shakespeare and his chronicle sources. Yet at the same time, this Richard is seen to secure that position by creating a popular militaristic party. As he does this the film summons images that recall the German Nazis or the Italian Partito Nazionale Fascista, chillingly spliced with an evocation of Oswald Mosley’s British Union of Fascists.11 Writing about this feature of the film, McKellen draws a parallel between the 1930s setting, in relation to the 1990s, and Shakespeare’s distance from the events he relates in his early history plays. He also acknowledges the commonplace of the ‘Tudor myth’ which Shakespeare is seen to have been dramatising: The historical events of the play had occurred just a couple of generations before the first audience saw them dramatised. The comparable period for us would be the 1930s, close enough for no-one to think we were identifying the plot of the play with actual events, any more than Shakespeare was writing about the real King Richard. He was creating history-whichnever-happened. Our production was properly in the realm of ‘what might have been’. Also, the 30s were appropriately a decade of tyranny throughout Europe, the most recent time when a dictatorship like Richard III’s might have overtaken the United Kingdom, as it had done Germany, Italy, Spain and the empire of the Soviet Union.12 McKellen raises an important issue about the relationship between the focus of a piece of theatre and the generalities of association that can be aroused in particular audiences in terms of the political environment from within which they view the action. This observation comes close to the sort of the ideological project that Brecht aspired to in his epic theatre. Brecht’s Arturo Ui was clearly a study of Hitler’s rise to power and very particular in the parallels that it offered between power and persuasion, as well as the aesthetics of military violence. Each episode in Ui’s advance is juxtaposed with projected inscriptions recalling Hitler’s eradication of opponents within Germany and his occupation of neighbouring territories. In this way Brecht sought to ‘make strange’ the manner and matter of Hitler’s violent acquisition of power in terms of the dramatic theory of Verfremdungseffekt, or alienation effect. Arturo Ui is, however, also about the general, transhistorical relationship between rhetoric and dictatorship. Hitler is not the only potentate, and certainly not the last. Thus, just as Mother Courage, set in the Thirty Years War, is concerned to encourage its audiences to consider universal ideas about M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 115 ‘We band of brothers’ 115 the condition of warfare, Brecht recognises a paradox that McKellen saw at work when he and Eyre toured with the 1930s stage version of Richard III: Audiences across the world took the point and revealed a paradox: the more specific a production, the more general its relevance. Although our story was obviously an English one, audiences took the message personally wherever we toured. In Hamburg, Richard’s blackshirt troops seemed like a commentary on the Third Reich. In Bucharest, when Richard was slain, the Romanians stopped the show with heartfelt cheers, in memory of their recent freedom from Ceaucescu’s regime. In Cairo, as the Gulf War was hotting up, it all seemed like a new play about Saddam Hussein. One critic lambasted me for poor taste when I ruffled the young prince’s hair, before imprisoning him, as Hussein had just been seen doing to a little English boy he had taken hostage. My stage business, of course, had been devised six months previously – life was imitating art. It was reminiscent of the scene in Arturo Ui, where Bertolt Brecht’s seedy greengrocer learns the art of dictatorship by studying Richard III with a ham actor.13 In fact, Brecht’s Arturo Ui studies lines from Julius Caesar, but McKellen’s slip is understandable because of the way that Brecht’s Announcer invites the audience to think of the figure of Richard III at the beginning of the play. The point about the political connections an audience makes between the stage and its own context is an important one, as in the wartime productions such as Olivier’s or those of G. R. Wilson Knight, noted in Chapter 2. And the use of Shakespeare in teaching and performance to offer a critique of the state in Eastern European countries during the years of communism is well documented.14 In Arturo Ui, Brecht established a chain of association between Hitler, the ‘parable’ of an American mobster (itself enriched by the popularity of the contemporary Hollywood gangster movie) and his generalised philosophy of the relationship between dictatorship and rhetoric, and between war and business. The image that unifies these parallels and leads us back to speculation on the relationship between sixteenth-century productions of Richard III and their reception by audiences attuned to war is that of Richard as a soldier. Arturo Ui ends with the Ui figure merging with Hitler in a direct address to the audience about his military ambitions. Swastikas unfurl as the analogy dissolves into a single point of historical reference. The end of the play is the starting point for an international military campaign. Brecht invites us to consider military aggression as the governing rationale of dictatorship – and clearly history supports this. This aspect of modernity might have been M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 116 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 116 war and nation in the theatre of shakespeare established according to the theories of Renaissance militarists, especially in terms of their ideas concerning the necessity of foreign wars as a guarantee of domestic stability. Richard III ends with the king as a soldier on the battlefield. He famously calls six times for a horse and then, in a kind of dumb show, he and Richmond fight hand to hand, Richard is slain and his body is carried off stage. Richmond re-enters with Lord Stanley and other lords to be proclaimed king. This is, of course, a profoundly compelling moment in the play and in the overall sequence of Shakespeare’s history plays in terms of the chronicles from which they were adapted. It is the founding moment of the Tudors’ ruling dynasty and, as McKellen reminds us, one that represents an episode that was just a couple of generations away from the lives of Shakespeare’s audiences. The view of critics such as E. M. W. Tillyard, that Shakespeare uncritically rehearses a ‘Tudor myth’ over the course of the history plays, came under scrutiny almost as soon as he expressed it and has been the subject of a range of critiques over the last half-century.15 It is the case, however, that in a rudimentary way, Shakespeare secures the happy origins of the Tudors. Richard is destroyed and Richmond is established as Henry VII, the grandfather of Shakespeare’s own monarch. And thus, with the ideologically optimistic All is True (or The Famous History of the Life of King Henry the Eighth) to come, the gap is closed between the civil war and present peace that looks very much like historiographical closure.16 Predicting the alternative title for that late addition to the overall historical sequence of Shakespeare’s chronicle plays, Elizabethan audiences witnessing the end of Richard III might have said ‘all is true’ as far as Tudor reputations were concerned. However, just as those attending modern productions of the play (or watching the films) are either directed to or submit their own contexts and parallels, Shakespeare’s audience might have introduced a range of associations that resist, or at least complicate, a seamless response to Richard’s demise. Richard has a range of identities in the play. Some he assumes himself, such as when he pretends to be a victim of unrequited love in his early ‘merry meeting’ with Lady Anne and blames her beauty for his earlier ‘effect’, the killing of Henry and Edward: Your beauty was the cause of that effect – Your beauty that did haunt me in my sleep To undermine the death of all the world So I might live one hour in your sweet bosom. (I.ii.21–4) M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 117 ‘We band of brothers’ 117 And later, in order to win over the mayor and other citizens, he pretends religious zeal and a reluctance to ascend to the throne. Buckingham directs the action as Richard appears with two bishops: Two props of virtue for a Christian prince, To stay him from the fall of vanity; And see, a book of prayer in his hand – True ornaments to know a holy man. Famous Plantagenet, most gracious prince, Lend favourable ear to our request, And pardon us the interruption Of thy devotion and right Christian zeal. (III.vii.96–103) Other images for Richard, some of which have been picked out of the text by directors as governing styles for their interpretations of the figure, come from those around him. For Antony Sher, Richard was the ‘bottled spider’ in the Royal Shakespeare Company’s production of 1984. Simon Russell Beale played him as a kind of toad in Sam Mendes’ production of 1992 at The Other Place in Stratford. Although in such productions the emphasis is on a single developed characteristic, Richard emerges as a figure assembled from a range of complementary identities: Machiavellian politician, misogynist manipulator, artful assassin, beguiling uncle to his doomed nephews. Above all, he recalls the Vice of a slightly earlier form of popular theatre, drawing on a Morality Play tradition that would have been familiar to many in Shakespeare’s audience. The Richard figure has a strong degree of credibility in terms of this tradition which, in performance, has the potential to obscure an audience’s more historically sanctioned view of him as purely venal. Despite the infanticide and other killings, and his place within the chain of events that hasten the near-spiritual ascendancy of the Tudors, Richard-as-Vice receives a mixed response in many audiences. The unsettling truth of the matter is that, at least until Act IV when his command of the situations he has created begins to fail and his followers begin to desert him, Richard presides over the action in a manner that seems designed to charm, or even implicate, the audience. No response is ever guaranteed in the theatre, but the odds in this play are stacked heavily in favour of something approaching respect for this grotesquely attractive figure. Antony Hammond’s stimulating introduction to the play quotes the work of Peter Happé M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 118 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 118 war and nation in the theatre of shakespeare in explaining how Shakespeare’s presentation of Richard played upon the qualities of the Vice: Of the sixty-odd characteristics of the ‘formal Vice’ listed by Happé, the following can be recognised in the Richard of Shakespeare’s play: the use of an alias, strange appearance, use of asides, discussion of plans with the audience, disguise, long avoidance, but ultimate suffering of punishment, moral commentary, importance of name, and reluctance concerning it, self explanation in soliloquy, satirical functions which include an attack on women, and various signs of depravity such as boasting and conceit, enjoyment of power, immoral sexuality.17 Shakespeare connects his Richard to the tail end of a Morality Play tradition that had lately isolated the Vice figure from its former symbolic function as an embodiment of evil and given it a secularised and somewhat aesthetically pleasing role on the English stage.18 The Richard of modern productions at least usually has charisma and appeal, and his steady engagement with the audience often seems almost to draw its members into the unfolding action. Despite the accumulating evidence provided in the sequence of murders and betrayals of his private immorality and public abuse of power, there is something potentially seductive about the sheer forcefulness of the figure in the theatre, relentlessly on course, ‘if not to Heaven, then hand in hand to Hell’ (V.vi.43). Much of this appeal is bound up with Richard’s humour, again drawn from the Morality tradition, but not entirely so. We might feel that some of the audience laughter witnessed at most twenty-firstcentury productions of Richard III is due to modern sensibilities – or even a degree of insensitivity to the historical circumstances it dramatises. Yet in this respect Shakespeare was only reproducing the tone adopted by at least one of the chroniclers from whom Elizabethan audiences could have drawn their history of the fifteenth century. The relationship between Sir Thomas More’s History of King Richard III and Shakespeare’s play is complex and rather indirect. Yet More’s text was an available history of Richard and one that, despite its origins at the heart of Tudor historiography, cannot help but give Richard an ironic if sinister appeal.19 While it may have been that Shakespeare’s audience observed a disrespectful silence as Richard reinforced the validity of the Tudor ascendancy over the former tyrant, it is hard to think of proceedings being quite that sonorous. Or perhaps Shakespeare’s Richard, like Brecht’s Arturo Ui, produced laughter only so that the audience is forced to reflect (even as it laughs) on how M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 119 ‘We band of brothers’ 119 easy it was to be seduced by a devilish tyrant.20 Brecht was clearly influenced by Shakespeare, but Shakespeare had been dead for over 300 years before he fell under the influence of Brecht. Whatever the case, there are other elements in the figure of Richard beyond his sheer theatricality and humour that may have contributed to his potential attractiveness to Elizabethan audiences. In addition to the immediacy and consistency of his engagement with those observing, and the sheer cleverness of the multiple identities we have already mentioned, Richard has other appealing qualities. The figure represents wider ethical and theological concerns that are drawn from the chronicle sources and consolidated, in his favour, by the theatrical form through which they are mediated. It is not unusual to see theatre programmes which allude to Richard’s ‘deformity’ by reminding modern audiences of the less enlightened times in which Shakespeare, apparently without reservation, reproduced a popular equation between physical disability and unnatural evil. Whatever the prejudices of a sixteenth-century audience, the Richard they are shown seems uninhibited by his physical condition. He blames it on ‘dissembling nature’ in the opening speech of the play and later uses it to his advantage. Thus, although the figure of Richard is at one level permanently ‘fixed’ as the ‘bottled spider’ (a medieval specimen of depravity), he is at the same time a multivalent instrument in the contemporary moral laboratory of the Renaissance theatre. The connection between Richard’s physical disability (or at some points, his ugliness) and his evil nature is continually remarked upon by those around him. At the same time, however, he steadily proves that in the dramatic world that evolved from the Henry VI trilogy, he is by no means the only source of evil. It becomes clear that it is in the interests of those around him to promote the sub-humanity of Richard because in many ways he is representative of a collective malaise that they wish to conceal. The three parts of Henry VI may be a cumbersome and unwieldy apparatus, but it is a necessary one if an audience for Richard III is fully to realise, in viewing the play’s particular fictional world, the extent of the general complicity in helping to make that world come about.21 What some critics have seen as Shakespeare’s difficulty in containing his sources in the trilogy might alternatively be seen as a tribute to Shakespeare’s integrity in constructing the background for the events that are played out in Richard III.22 The trilogy may seem overdetermined, its detail occasionally threatening its performance values, but it provides an encyclopedic guide to the fallen world of the play M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 120 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 120 war and nation in the theatre of shakespeare that it precedes. This allows Richard to be somewhat redeemed in Richard III itself as, in the popular formulation, a ‘Scourge of God’, operating at once in violation of God’s laws but also as a kind of powerful disinfectant in the diseased environment of the play. The recuperation afforded by this further identity does not invite sympathy, but it might just encourage pity. Richard remains the embodiment of evil (just as the captive princes embody innocence), yet this is a useful quality in the hands of both God and the Tudor chroniclers if the historical stage is going to be cleared for the anointing of Henry VII. Moreover, the perplexing issue of the play’s generic credentials, and therefore those of its hero, complicates the matter further. In using the variant title The Tragedy of Richard the Third the modern Oxford Shakespeare edition of the play reminds us of a difficulty faced by some critics in their assessment of the work. Richard’s intolerable behaviour ought to be incompatible with the sense of loss that is often experienced by modern audiences and, for all we know, by sixteenth-century ones. If there is a concomitant sense of tragedy, then what are the qualities that might invite us to pity his downfall? Hammond raises the point by positioning (or universalising) the figure of Richard within a chain of similarly driven figures: To be sure, he is no conventional Aristotelian hero ‘much like ourselves’; not at all a Macbeth. In Richard III we do not participate in the agony of a man’s loss of his soul; Richard, true to his dramatic origins, is committed to evil at the beginning of the play. Whatever was potentially good in him is already subverted to the drive of will and power, the Machiavel’s immense belief in his virtù, his superiority to the rest of mankind – that belief in power and ability which later finds re-expression in Raskolnikov’s theories, or in Nietzsche’s Übermensch.23 He also points to Richard’s almost Christ-like agony at Bosworth after the visit of the ghosts of those he has eliminated along the way. This is a credible enough reading, reinforcing the almost irresistible power that Shakespeare’s Richard has to provoke comparisons with other studies in power, as with the Hitler parallel of modern productions. But almost tucked away within this account of what makes Richard a potentially tragic figure is another remark, one that should be given more significance in the context of the military texts against which Richard III can be situated. Hammond notes that: Nothing becomes Richard in the play so well as his death, as he dares an opposite to every danger, and seeks Richmond (the doubtless wisely, but M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 121 ‘We band of brothers’ 121 unheroically, disguised Richmond) in the throat of death. It is the only action in the play which reminds us of Richard’s early achievements as a warrior.24 This seems a profound but understated point. In a Vice-like way, Richard has assumed (or acted out) an impressive range of identities throughout the play, with the audience, unlike the other characters, privileged to see them all. He has scourged the fallen kingdom on behalf of God (without having to adopt the seriousness we expect of Him) and delivered all into the hands of the Tudors. Towards the end, he is visited by ghostly manifestations of his conscience, sufficient perhaps to draw (from a generous Aristotelian audience at least) a modicum of pity: I shall despair. There is no creature loves me, And if I die, no soul will pity me. Nay, wherefore should they? – since that I myself Find in myself no pity to myself. (V.v.154–7) Given the multiplicity of identities he has taken on, this may seem like just another one, played out for the benefit of the genre. By this stage there is really little left in the way of redemption, since in his dream ‘every tale condemns me for a villain’ (V.v.149). His former subjectivity, ironically composed of a range of played-out parts, is now played out, leaving him with the singular and straightforwardly villainous reputation the chroniclers fixed him with. Yet this is not quite the end. There is more acting and more ‘action’ (as Hammond puts it) to come, and it is what happens next that makes Richard III such a provocative play in the light of the Elizabethan discourse of militarism. Richmond and Richard address their troops and the battle takes place, offstage except for the appearance of Catesby calling out to Norfolk and his soldiers to attempt the king’s rescue: Rescue, my lord of Norfolk! Rescue, rescue! [To a soldier] The King enacts more wonders than a man, Daring an opposite to every danger. His horse is slain, and all on foot he fights, Seeking for Richmond in the throat of death. [Calling] Rescue, fair lord, or else the day is lost! (V.vii.1–6) Richard, however, refuses rescue and is killed by the almost saintly Richmond. Richard is fixed immutably for all time as a villain, but it M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 122 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 122 war and nation in the theatre of shakespeare is not simply a question of the response to Richard as a figure in the history of the theatre, or within Tudor historiography. Despite the efforts of members of the Richard the Third Society, the Society of Friends of Richard III and other Ricardians, there seems little hope for Richard’s overall historical reputation, and although the figure of Richard was inspired by the Tudor chronicles, this legacy is largely Shakespeare’s doing. But these closing scenes are disturbing precisely because of the way that Shakespeare has, to this point, so carefully invested his Richard with a degree of attractiveness, positioned him as the necessary Scourge of God in a fallen world, and even given him tragic potential. This treatment altogether bolsters an additional identity (really a reversion to the earlier plays) which emerges at the end: Richard as soldier. The contorted nature of the Henry VI trilogy may well be due to Shakespeare’s difficulty in managing the complexity of the sources against the demands of dramatic structure and narrative. The result, however, is a veritable catalogue of the various kinds of warfare that Shakespeare and his audiences would have known about. It may be that some of Shakespeare’s chronological infelicities are not simply due to problems he had with structuring the narrative. Given the importance of war to his audiences, there may have been a desire to accommodate within the trilogy an impressive range of battles of different types, various military conditions and the effect of these on those subject to them – a kind of compendium of conflict. He may also have wanted, while establishing the pre-history of Richard III, to provide an elaborate military and historical context for a statement about the relationship between war and the state which we can observe at the heart of the trilogy. The Henry VI trilogy deals with the association between foreign campaigns and civil war, the susceptibility of an internally divided state to insurrection, the vulnerability of military alliances and the volatile nature of war itself. It raises more specific issues to do with the relationship between warfare and superstition, a questioning of war as a purely masculine endeavour (in the portrayal of Joan of Arc) and the difficulty of the ‘weak’ king as military leader. It also invites speculation on the way that the pathos of war is presented – in terms of the figure of Talbot in Part I, but also in the extraordinary scene in Part III (Richard Duke of York) where the identity of two soldiers’ victims are revealed to the audience. Henry, isolated from the battle proper, has been speculating on kingship and dreaming of life as a shepherd, when he is suddenly interrupted: M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 123 ‘We band of brothers’ 123 Alarum. Enter [at one door] a Soldier with a dead man in his arms. King Henry stands apart. SOLDIER Ill blows the wind that profits nobody. This man, whom hand to hand I slew in fight, May be possessèd with some store of crowns; And I, that haply take them from him now, May yet ere night yield both my life and them To some man else, as this dead man doth me. [He removes the dead man’s helmet] Who’s this? O God! It is my father’s face Whom in this conflict I, unwares, have killed. O heavy times, begetting such events! From London by the King was I pressed forth; My father, being the Earl of Warwick’s man, Came on the part of York, pressed by his master; And I, who at his hands received my life, Have by my hands of life bereavèd him. (II.v.55–68) Henry recoils from this revelation, speaking of a ‘piteous spectacle’, ‘harmless lambs’ and joining in with the soldier’s grief, saying, ‘I’ll aid thee tear for tear’. At this point another soldier enters with a dead man in his arms: SECOND SOLDIER Thou that so stoutly hath resisted me, Give me thy gold, if thou hast any gold For I have bought it with an hundred blows. [He removes the dead man’s helmet] But let me see; is this our foeman’s face? Ah, no, no, no – it is mine only son! (II.v.79–83) The ‘artificial’ symmetry of the scene and its careful symbolism – two fathers and sons juxtaposed with the ‘fatherly’ presence of the shepherd king – give it a special place in the play. The linear action is held up for a moment of contemplation and reflection, and while the pity of this war lies in its civil nature pitting son against father and father against son, Shakespeare introduces a number of more general issues on the practice of warfare. First, there is the repeated point about the connection between war and gold, each soldier recognising the profit that can be made, but each claiming that it has been earned. This recalls the dialogue between Hanno and Thrasymachus in the M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 124 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 124 war and nation in the theatre of shakespeare colloquy Militaria where Erasmus condemned this feature of warfare. Secondly, there is the first soldier’s explanation of how he and his father were pressed into the wars according to their positions in service to a lord. This rehearses those arguments in the contemporary military theory about the virtues of a standing army and the inadequacies of earlier feudal arrangements. But more striking than these is how this little tableau is dismantled and the action resumed. Henry and the two soldiers weep over the bodies of the dead, and although Henry insensitively claims a hierarchy of sorrow, ‘Was ever king so grieved for subjects’ woe? / Much is your sorrow, mine ten times so much’ (II.v.111–12), the scene remains poignant and reflective. There are elements here that recall the formal devices of tragedy: the contrived situation that foregrounds wasteful death, the figure of authority standing over the bodies, the proclamations of grief and sorrow, and the overarching sense of pity. It is as if the second soldier senses this. His next lines contain all the ingredients of the final scene of a tragedy: ‘a winding sheet’, ‘a sepulchre’, ‘funeral bells’ and ‘obsequious’ regard for the loss of a hero – all reckoned against the evocation of Priam, a figure from classical history. But the formula that applies to tragedy is reversed in a subtle but charged way. Instead of the dead son being gloriously entombed, the funeral bell tolling to draw attention to his fate, these emblems of public grief and remembrance are summoned, but reconfigured as part of the private world of the father: SECOND SOLDIER (to his son’s body) These arms of mine shall be thy winding sheet; My heart, sweet boy, shall be thy sepulchre, For from my heart thine image ne’er shall go. My sighing breast shall be thy funeral bell, And so obsequious will thy father be, E’en for the loss of thee, having no more, As Priam was for all his valiant sons. (II.v.114–20) The second soldier’s command of the formulaic imagery of tragic death undermines its potential to smooth over and institutionalise wasteful death. It pre-empts the ritual of an imagined military funeral and amplifies the father’s powerful and bitterly subversive final couplet: ‘I’ll bear thee hence, and let them fight that will – / For I have murdered where I should not kill’. Henry, meanwhile, can only repeat his earlier thought: ‘Sad-hearted men, much overgone with care, / Here sits a king more woeful than you are.’ M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 125 ‘We band of brothers’ 125 From this earlier showcase of failed enterprises, poor judgements, ‘feminised’ warfare and general pathos emerges Richard, Duke of Gloucester, who declares that he can ‘set the murderous Machiavel to school’ (III.ii.193). He is already doomed in terms of his historical legacy, but he is a figure bolstered by his military reputation and dramatic appeal. As we have seen, Richard, at the beginning of his own play, scorns the feminising of the state in much the same terms as those of the contemporary writers of military theory. For them, ‘Piping peace’ had indeed led to ‘merry meetings’ and ‘delightful measures’, threatening the fabric of the state’s ascendancy. Richard’s denunciation of the feminising of the state has overtones of other writers’ appeal for a reinvigoration of masculine norms that were slipping away from the Elizabethans’ vision of national identity. Yet Richard III invites its audiences to regard Richard’s ambition (recorded in terms that are simultaneously military and misogynist) as the very essence of the world which the Tudors had swept aside. This is an extremely unsettling ideological stance when viewed in the context of the way in which Richard mimics the very position adopted by those contemporary advocates of English remilitarisation. Towards the end of a performance the audience watches a very simple but highly stylised opposition between two military camps. On the Elizabethan stage, as with most modern productions, two tents would probably have represented the two armies. The symmetry invites comparison and judgement, as does the action that unfolds. Each army’s leader sleeps and dreams, each rises for battle and delivers what might in modern parlance be called a ‘motivational’ oration to his troops concerning the justice of the campaign. Richmond’s speech is a model of justification for war and the cause. It is the abstract discourse of the just war, which speaks of God’s involvement and protection, and of a future inscribed in the present outcome. The speech sounds like a passage from one of the more conservative military theorists: Much that I could say, loving countrymen, The leisure and enforcement of the time Forbids to dwell on. Yet remember this: God, and our good cause fight upon our side. The prayers of holy saints and wrongèd souls, Like high-reared bulwarks, stand before our forces. Richard except, those whom we fight against Had rather have us win than him they follow. For what is he they follow? Truly gentlemen, M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 126 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 126 war and nation in the theatre of shakespeare A bloody tyrant and homicide; One raised in blood, and one in blood established; One that made means to come by what he hath, And slaughtered those that were the means to help him; A base, foul stone, made precious by the foil Of England’s chair, where he is falsely set; One that hath ever been God’s enemy. Then if you fight against God’s enemy, God will, in justice, ward you as his soldiers. If you do sweat to put a tyrant down, You sleep in peace, the tyrant being slain. If you do fight against your country’s foes, Your country’s foison shall pay your pains the hire; If you do fight in safeguard of your wives, Your wives shall welcome home the conquerors. If you free your children from the sword, Your children’s children quites it in your age. Then in the name of God and all these rights, Advance your standards! Draw your willing swords! For me, the ransom of this bold attempt Shall be this cold corpse on the earth’s cold face; But if I thrive, the gain of my attempt, The least of you shall share his part thereof. Sound, drums, and trumpets, boldly and cheerfully! God, and Saint George! Richmond and victory! (V.v.191–224) This ornate and thoroughly principled oration is also exactly in line with the ideological position Richmond is given in the Tudor histories: God and right are on his side and will give him certain victory. Yet read in the context of the more fervent and popular theorists, Richard’s oration, which in many matters of form mirrors Richmond’s, might be considered the more competitive and attractive speech. Just as Richard (as Vice figure) is often seen as more compelling than the bland Richmond, his speech chimes more completely with the extremes of nationalist and militarist rhetoric found in some of the contemporary theory: What shall I say, more than I have inferred? Remember whom you are to cope withal: A sort of vagabonds, rascals and runaways, A scum of Bretons and base lackey peasants, Whom their o’ercloyèd country vomits forth To desperate ventures and assured destruction. M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 127 ‘We band of brothers’ 127 You sleeping safe, they bring you to unrest; You having lands and blessed with beauteous wives, They would distrain the one, distain the other. And who doth lead them, but a paltry fellow? Long kept in Bretagne at our mother’s cost; A milksop; one that never in his life Felt so much cold as over shoes in snow. Let’s whip these stragglers o’er the seas again, Lash hence these overweening rags of France, These famished beggars, weary of their lives, Who – but for dreaming on this fond exploit – For want of means, poor rats, had hanged themselves. If we be conquered, let men conquer us, And not these bastard Bretons, whom our fathers Have in their own land beaten, bobbed, and thumped, And in record left them the heirs of shame. Shall these enjoy our lands? Lie with our wives? Ravish our daughters? Drum afar off Hark, I hear their drum. Fight, gentlemen of England! Fight, bold yeomen! Draw, archers, draw your arrows to the head! Spur your proud horses hard, and rise in blood! Amaze the welkin with your broken staves. (V.vi.44–71) At this point a messenger arrives to tell Richard that Lord Stanley’s men will not be joining the battle on Richard’s behalf: A thousand hearts are great within my bosom. Advance our standards! Set upon our foes! Our ancient word of courage, fair Saint George, Inspire us with the spleen of fiery dragons. Upon them! Victory sits on our helms. (V.vi.77–81) Richard’s speech expands on the idea of nation that the military theorists calculated as the most important reason for the introduction of a standing army. Richmond’s army lacks credibility in terms of a national ideal since it is composed of Bretons, thought of here as French and therefore reminiscent of the traditional sixteenth-century enemy. It also consists of ‘vagabonds, rascals and runaways’ – a key complaint for those theorists who were disgusted by the composition of Elizabethan armies. Moreover, Richard can appeal to the ‘yeoman’ of England to fight against foreign peasants, resurrecting an old adage M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 128 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 128 war and nation in the theatre of shakespeare about the centrality of a certain class of citizen to a military and national ideal. Richard also speaks in a way that is both informal and colloquial, just as the theorists recommend. Comparing the two attitudes to the forthcoming battle and in the context of the late sixteenth and early seventeenth centuries, Richard’s xenophobia might have been read as the more potent discourse. Richmond, though victorious (as history dictates), gives the formal or theoretical justification for war, while Richard evokes a discourse which was to underlie the justification offered in the contemporary world. Comparing the two speeches, Richmond’s rhetoric is arguably a sanitised and lukewarm version of the just war ethic, set against the emerging ‘realism’ of the theorists. The fact that Richard and Richmond both appeal to the duality of God and Saint George unsettles these authorities in an ironic way, but Richard’s assertion of masculine, class-oriented and nationalistic fervour positions his oration much more clearly in the pragmatic and popular canons of the Elizabethan military theorists. Furthermore, his description of Richmond as a ‘milksop’ has a curiously authentic ring in terms of Richard’s later assertion that ‘I think there be six Richmonds in the field: / Five I have slain today instead of him’ (V.iv.10–11). Despite his overall valorisation of Richmond as the coming Henry VII, Shakespeare’s hint that Richmond has somehow broken the codes of chivalry by concealing his identity adds some weight to Richard’s military reputation. Hammond notes: This surprising information is Shakespeare’s invention. In Hall, Richard actively seeks single combat with Richmond who is nothing loth to encounter him. The idea of a king thus protecting himself was not uncommon (it occurs again in 1 Henry IV, V.iii). But the stratagem, while suitable enough for the sly Henry IV, hardly seems appropriate in the heroic Richmond.25 The end of the play comes quickly with the death of Richard and what seems the conventional post-conflict assessment of what has transpired. Henry VII calls for a list of the ‘men of name . . . slain on on either side’ (V.viii.12), and ensures their interment ‘as becomes their births’ (V.viii.15). Civil strife will now give way to ‘smooth-faced peace’ (V.viii.33) personified in the last line of the play as feminine (V.viii.41), echoing Richard’s soliloquy at the start of the play. Shakespeare has fulfilled an historical task in dramatising the chronicles of Holinshed, Hall and More, reinforcing the claim of Henry to the throne, and securing the reputation of the Tudor dynasty. As Jean Howard and Phyllis Rackin have noted: M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 129 ‘We band of brothers’ 129 Looking back to the preceding plays and forward to the Elizabethan present, Richard III imposes a tidy ending on the first tetralogy: old crimes are punished, every chicken comes home to roost, and the moral account books are neatly balanced to provide a providential warrant for the accession of Henry VII.26 Yet there remains the paradox that has troubled critics over the centuries – the sheer dramatic appeal of the figure of Richard. And in the context of the parallel appeal of the contemporary military theorists – and the ideological proximity between Richard’s military reputation and the sentiments of those theorists – Shakespeare could be said to have created a critique of their views. Members of twentiethand twenty-first-century audiences may be asked see Richard as a kind of early Adolf Hitler, but sixteenth-century ones might have registered him among the prescriptive ideal model soldiers of the military writers. What emerges from this process – the contradictory aesthetic of the doomed usurper and child-killer as authentic military leader – is the tendency of militarism to form itself into an independent discourse, isolated from, and inherently superior to, the particular dramatic or historic conditions from which it arises and from conventional morals. If there is indeed a sense of autonomy in this discourse, established in the Henry VI trilogy and played out in Richard III, then it is of interest to see how this phenomenon fares in Shakespeare’s later plays. The first tetralogy was written and staged in the period when the contemporary military writing was gaining ground in terms of its voice and volume, and we may suppose, given the many references to its concerns in the plays, in terms of its influence. Shakespeare’s grounding of the figure of Richard in the matter of this writing may be entirely coincidental. Yet his eye for topical historical reference points and the unavoidable presence of a military apparatus, however ramshackle, in London itself, would seem to suggest that any dramatisation of military values would have been a sensitive matter. Shakespeare’s sustained interest in the history play as a genre would make such an engagement inescapable, and it is worth noting the dates of composition of these plays since they correspond to the most prolific period of military theory. These dates are the subject of considerable critical attention and debate, but an approximate scheme, following Stanley Wells and Gary Taylor (but using the Folio titles) would be: The Second Part of King Henry the Sixth (1590) The Third Part of King Henry the Sixth (1590) M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 130 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 130 war and nation in the theatre of shakespeare The First Part of King Henry the Sixth (1592) The Life and Death of Richard the Third (1592–93) The Life and Death of Richard the Second (1595–96) The Life and Death of King John (1596–97) The First Part of Henry the Fourth (1597) The Second part of Henry the Fourth (1598) The Life of King Henry the Fifth (1598) The Life of King Henry the Eighth (1613)27 In this compositional sequence Richard II is of particular importance since it provides a critique of a waning chivalric code of militarism. One level of the play is in its analysis of the discontinuities that arise between the figure that inherits the crown and the role of king which that figure has to act out. In this it has something in common with the Henry VI trilogy and much in common with Christopher Marlowe’s contemporaneous Edward II. Like Marlowe’s play (but unlike Richard III), the sense of tragedy is clearly defined, bound up with issues of ‘weakness’, the abuse of position and the detrimental influence of ‘favourites’ whose encroachments on the throne are couched in terms of their subordinate social class as much their sexual threat. In its dramatisation of war, Richard II articulates the ‘personal’ antithesis between the figures of Richard and Bolingbroke with their distinctive approaches to armed conflict. The play proceeds from the confusions arising from an attempt to implement chivalric law by means of the (interrupted) single combat, through a war in Ireland, to an invasion launched from France. It ends with an ‘atoning’ crusade to the Holy Land by the new king following the convenient liquidation of Richard. The play’s topicality for Elizabethan audiences has often been discussed by critics in terms of its depiction of a monarchy diluted by the influence of favourites. A set of associations is derived from Queen Elizabeth’s apparent reaction to a performance of the play (in which she saw parallels with her own situation) and the idea that it was revived for performance at the time of the Essex rebellion shortly before her death.28 Of wider significance in view of the concerns expressed by the military theorists would have been the relationship between war and prestige. Bolingbroke returns to England at the head of an army in order to reclaim land and inheritance, but departs on a crusade in order to redeem a reputation marred by the consequences of this military act. Richard’s earlier decision to go to war against the rebellious Irish is set against his scornful dismissal of Bolingbroke’s treacherous and demeaning appeal to M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 131 ‘We band of brothers’ 131 his ‘craftsmen’ countrymen (I.iv.27). Richard’s determination to attend to the Irish at the head of his army is an act of prestige recalling Elizabethan histories of earlier kings. But it would also have struck a topical note at the time of the play’s first staging in terms of the economic effects of such displays of majesty: We will in person to this war, And for our coffers with too great a court And liberal largess are grown somewhat light, We are enforced to farm our royal realm, The revenue whereof shall furnish us For our affairs in hand. If that come short, Our substitutes at home shall have blank charters, Whereto, when they shall know what men are rich, They shall subscribe them for large sums of gold, And send them after to supply our wants; For we will make for Ireland presently. (I.iv.41–51) Moreover, in the context of texts by Shakespeare’s contemporaries and successors Richard’s juxtaposition of his Irish campaign – a source of prestige – with the domesticity of the ‘poor craftsmen’ seemingly beguiled by Bolingbroke, seems highly portentous since, as we shall see later, some early modern craftsmen had very particular and uncompromising attitudes to war. Shakespeare’s next history play was probably King John, one that critics have often addressed by speculating on its date of composition, its relationship with the anonymous The Troublesome Reign of John, King of England (1591) and, indeed, its authorship. In terms of the compositional sequence of Shakespeare’s histories it is usually ascribed to the years 1596–7, placing it between the first and second tetralogies, with The Troublesome Reign as one of its sources. King John has proved troublesome in itself due to a perception that it is aesthetically inferior to Shakespeare’s other history plays. Critics point to its cumbersome episodic structure, inconsistencies in the development of character (especially with regard to John and the Bastard) and an over-reliance on battle scenes. It is, in the words of one critic, ‘bogged down in armies on the march, sieges, and turgid speeches’.29 Yet King John seems absolutely fit for purpose in terms of the development of Shakespeare’s history cycle as a moment of hesitation or uncertainty over many of the military issues that are being discussed beyond the theatre. Its very awkwardness may reflect the overdetermined nature of the ‘Tudor myth’ and the attendant M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 132 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 132 war and nation in the theatre of shakespeare military theory that together sought to underpin the developing Protestant state. It is as if the theatre cannot quite match the ideological texture of these stories of the past and the military models for the future. Howard and Rackin contrast King John with Richard III by noting that: Separated from the temporal and genealogical chain that unites the two tetralogies, King John moves farthest back into the past, and the entire action seems designed to foreground every kind of moral and political and historiographic ambiguity. The providential justice that determines the outcome in Richard III is nowhere to be seen, and every attempt to resolve the action or make sense of it is immediately frustrated by the moral ambiguities of an episodic plot where success and failure ride on the shifting winds of chance.30 This is an astute summary from two critics who, unlike many more traditional commentators, have taken King John very seriously, especially for the way that authority in the play is expressed through patriarchy and issues of familial legitimacy. In the context of the military theory of the time, its confidence boosted by the defeat of the Armada (where Providence took the form of shifting winds to create an immediate myth), it is right to see more coherence in the plays that came before and after King John. Yet it might be said that the strength of King John in relation to an understanding of the power of militarism lies in its excessive display of war’s moral ambiguity and susceptibility to fortune. These are matters that are indeed relatively better contained and smoothed over in the adjacent plays, even if they remain hardly more coherent in those plays. In terms of the value placed on individual components of Shakespeare’s canon of history plays, it is perhaps those that have traditionally been judged the poorest, such as the Henry VI plays and King John, that have most to reveal about the ideological underpinnings of the whole set. King John stands as a revealing index to some of the military issues played out in the other history plays, and the episodic structure allows an isolation of some of the terms of the debate that was continuing in the period’s military prose. An example of this is apparent in the figure of King John himself, seen as inconsistently developed by critics who dislike, or perhaps distrust, the play. Shakespeare departs from the probable source in The Troublesome Reign to present a John who goes from villainous strength to weakness, brought down by a war that offers such patriotic and nation-defining opportunities in other plays. Moreover, Shakespeare has to dramatise a peace settlement brokered by a M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 133 ‘We band of brothers’ 133 cardinal in a way that might be construed as mischievous, if I may be forgiven a slightly intentionalist note. He certainly removes the virulent anti-Catholicism so evident in the source, allowing the play’s concerns to sit suggestively alongside those of his Elizabethan audience attuned as it would have been to wars with Catholic states. It is thus a play that works against the formulas established in the earlier histories and developed in the later ones. Here, war weakens the state rather than strengthens it and it is a weakened king who brings the kind of peace that, according to the theorists, could only be achieved by a warlike strong leader. And at the end Shakespeare allows the Bastard, who in another shift in characterisation mutates from sceptical observer to extravagant patriot, to utter a sentiment reminiscent of the military theorists’ prescription of the relationship between internal peace and external conflict: Oh, let us pay the time but needful woe, Since it hath been beforehand with our griefs. This England never did, nor ever shall, Lie at the proud foot of a conqueror, But when it first did help to wound itself. Now these her princes are come home again, Come the three corners of the world in arms And we shall shock them. Naught shall make us rue If England to itself do rest but true. (V.vii.110–18) The Bastard’s conversion to warlike nationalism, his cultivation of the grandeur of war itself earlier in the play and the play’s overall preoccupation with ideas of legitimacy distinguish it from others in the sequence of Shakespeare’s history plays. It could be seen as a kind of pastiche. The thematic concerns of the other plays are drawn together – too awkwardly for many critics and directors – in a way that leaves them open to scrutiny as component parts. A common response to King John has been to dismiss it altogether, or to write in its margin ‘could do better’: yet this sense of alienation is a useful critical mode to bring to an examination of Shakespeare’s most celebrated play about warfare. BEING HARD IN HARFLEUR In the modern era critics have viewed Shakespeare’s portrait of the face of warfare in The Life of Henry the Fifth as a triptych. On the left have clustered interpretations that regard the play’s bellicose M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 134 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 134 war and nation in the theatre of shakespeare speeches and unjustified killings as evidence of Shakespeare’s hostility to the excesses of war, with Henry himself their apologist as he embarks on a nationalist endeavour based on the flimsy justification for the war allowed by his advisers. Ranged to the right are those who harness the play to an earlier tradition, consolidated by the chroniclers, celebrating Henry’s achievement at Agincourt. For these observers the play is Shakespeare’s account of a triumphant, againstthe-odds victory with the power to inspire subsequent generations, especially at times of national emergency, but along the way as a constant reminder of English pride and fortitude. Between these extremes is the familiar narrative of Shakespeare’s ‘even-handedness’: his acknowledgement of the chaos of war and its innocent victims, but also his awareness of war’s potential for a demonstration of the determination and resilience of the human spirit. War may be brutal and often haphazard, but it distils human nature and produces some memorable lines. This central, liberal account allows the critic to analyse the play’s speeches as rhetorically overblown, but at the same time to recognise the necessity of hyperbole in times of danger. In a sense this was the spirit of Laurence Olivier’s wartime vision of the play, closely allied to Churchill’s speeches from the same period of national vulnerability. It is a position made morally acceptable when mediated through an understanding that Shakespeare registers war as encouraging pity as well as terror. War is a terrifying aspect of human behaviour, but at least we retain sufficient humanity to pity its victims. However, it might also be said that Shakespeare invites as much scepticism about heroic militarism in Henry V as in earlier plays. If the figure of Henry has traditionally been regarded as an embodiment of heroic militarism, or at worst a pragmatic leader, it has taken the earlier plays to get him to either position. In the Henry IV plays Prince Harry was more bound to codes of drinking and civilian licence than warlike pursuits. The Harry of the Boar’s Head is defined against Shakespeare’s distinctly anti-heroic characterisation of militarism in the form of Sir John Falstaff whose receipt of brides by men resisting service and his creation of rolls of imaginary soldiers (for whom he can claim pay) has been explored by Paul Jorgensen.31 Falstaff may play on a sense of his lineage, but his practices, as Jorgensen notes, were all too familiar as those of the kind of military man responsible for raising troops in Elizabethan England. Harry’s long progress towards repentance, military distinction (newly defined against the figure of Hotspur) and finally kingship itself requires him to enter into M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 135 ‘We band of brothers’ 135 a realm of idealism based on his rejection of the allure of civilian life and its codes. In short, in order to become more ‘like himself’, as he says to his father in the first part of Henry IV, he will have to assume the mantle of military, and therefore filial, duty. In doing this, a prince who has been ‘a truant’ to ‘chivalry’ might have done worst than pay attention to the urgings of the Elizabeth military theorists in the anachronistic fashion that, as we shall see in a later chapter, Christopher Marlowe’s Tamburlaine had already managed to do: I will redeem all this on Percy’s head, And in the closing of some glorious day Be bold to tell you that I am your son; When I will wear a garment all of blood, And stain my favours in a bloody mask, Which washed away, shall scour my shame with it. (III.ii.132–7) Harry becomes Henry by giving up drinking at the Boar’s Head, a resolve that immediately allows him to speak in poetry as well as prose; and he also gives up on Sir John Falstaff. When he goes to war as king in Henry V, Shakespeare questions the righteousness of warlike pursuits through their juxtaposition with the world the prince has left behind. This is partly represented by the ‘absent-presence’ of Falstaff, and partly by the hangover of sentiments from the Boar’s Head, embodied by the ordinary soldiers he met there and whom he takes to France. The war is won through divine support, the power of rhetoric and the threat of material brutality rather than simply through the idealistic codes of chivalry recommended by the contemporary military theorists. A central scene in Henry V interrogates the heroic masculinity, which has removed him from the condition of the inn. ‘May I with right and conscience make this claim?’ he had asked the Archbishop of Canterbury in the debate about the Salic law at the beginning of the play. Yet it is with ‘conscience wide as hell’ that he signals the consequences for the citizens of Harfleur if they refuse to give in to his siege: How yet resolves the Governor of the town? This is the latest parle we will admit. Therefore to our best mercy give yourselves, Or like to men proud of destruction Defy us to our worst. For as I am a soldier, A name that in my thoughts becomes me best, If I begin the batt’ry once again M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 136 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 136 war and nation in the theatre of shakespeare I will not leave the half-achievèd Harfleur Till in her ashes she lie burièd. The gates of mercy shall be all shut up, And the fleshed soldier, rough and hard of heart, In liberty of bloody hand shall range With conscience wide as hell, mowing like grass Your fresh fair virgins and your flow’ring infants. What is it then to me if impious war Arrayed in flames like to the prince of fiends Do with his smirched complexion all fell feats Enlinked to waste and desolation? What is’t to me, when you yourselves are cause, If your pure maidens fall into the hand Of hot and forcing violation? What rein can hold licentious wickedness When down the hill he holds his fierce career? We may as bootless spend our vain command Upon th’ enragèd soldiers in their spoil As send precepts to the leviathan To come ashore. Therefore, you men of Harfleur, Take pity of your town and of your people Whiles yet my soldiers are in my command, Whiles yet the cool and temperate wind of grace O’verblows the filthy and contagious clouds Of heady murder, spoil, and villainy. If not – why, in a moment look to see The blind and bloody soldier with foul hand Defile the locks of your shrill-shrieking beards, Your fathers taken by the silver beards, And their most reverend heads dashed to the walls; Your naked infants spitted upon pikes, Whiles the mad mothers with their howls confused Do break the clouds, as did the wives of Jewry At Herod’s bloody-hunting slaughtermen. What say you? Will you yield, and this avoid? Or guilty in defence, by thus destroyed? (III.iii.84–124) This is of course, a speech that was understandably excised from Olivier’s wartime adaptation of the play for the screen. The film was, after all, supposed to evoke the liberation of Europe rather than summon images of wartime atrocities. Other disturbing parts of Shakespeare’s play were also excluded, such as Henry’s repeated order that the French prisoners should be slaughtered. M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 137 ‘We band of brothers’ 137 Here Shakespeare is following his source in Holinshed rather than embellishing the story. But the scene at the siege of Harfleur is the one that has troubled critics intent on characterising Henry simply as the heroic warrior of such earlier speeches as this one in Act III: In peace there’s nothing so becomes a man As modest stillness and humility, But when the blast of war blows in our ears, Then imitate the action of the tiger. Stiffen the sinews, conjure up the blood, Disguise fair nature with hard-favoured rage. (III.i.3–8) Harfleur invites us to consider the real distance between military conflict and civilian ethics: the mantle of war, with its intricate weave of discipline, logistics, restraint, national pride and divine authority cannot cover the real business of the battlefield. The idea that in his thoughts Henry is a soldier mirrors the recommendations of the military writers: that a soldier should have knowledge of his status and purpose. But the outcome is an anti-civic mayhem in which the unrestrained behaviour of his soldiers will show the contradiction between their cause and their ‘nature’. Henry’s threats amount to a catalogue of images and allusions that come close to contravening a majority of both the seven deadly sins and the Ten Commandments. Moreover, his notion that the consequences that will befall the citizens of Harfleur will be somehow their own fault is a piece of logicchopping worthy of Richard of Gloucester himself. Unlike the killing of the prisoners, these threats are not derived from Holinshed, who does not describe the aftermath of the taking of Harfleur. This expansive and all-consuming vision of hell seems to be Shakespeare’s own invention. Despite this it is tempting for some to excuse Henry’s threats as simply the excesses of medieval or Renaissance warfare. Certainly there is one Elizabethan military theorist who acknowledges that the despoiling of a city might follow its capture, recommending an ‘orderly’ and fairly distributed seizure of booty. This is William Garrard, whose The Arte of Warre was published in London in 1591 not long after the Armada and almost a decade before Henry V was first performed. Like many of the theorists, Garrard assembled his book from a range of other people’s work: but as a model of good practice, his ideas on sieges are as besmirched as the face of M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 138 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 138 war and nation in the theatre of shakespeare Shakespeare’s personification of war at Harfleur. We learn from the subtitle that they were supposedly: drawne out of all our late and forreine services, by William Garrard Gentleman, who served the King of Spayne in his warres foutenn yeeres, and died Anno Domino 1587. Which may be called, the true steppes of warre, the perfect path of knowledge, and the playne plot of warlike exercises; as the reeder hereof shall plainly see expressed. Garrard, a mercenary who had fought for the King of Spain but fortunately, perhaps, died a year before the Spanish Armada, seems to lack distinction as an authority for Henry’s ambitions on behalf of English history. Whatever we make of Harfleur we are left with Henry’s considerable reputation, based mainly on his success at Agincourt and reinforced by his prediction that the battle’s date, the festival of Saint Crispin, will always be remembered for its association with the victory: This story shall the good man teach his son, And Crispin Crispian shall ne’er go by From this day to the ending of the world But we in it shall be rememberèd, We few, we happy few, we band of brothers. (IV.iii.56–60) We shall see in a later chapter that alternative associations came to exist for 25 October, involving other kinds of bands of brothers, but Shakespeare’s play clearly contributed to a mythology surrounding Henry V that can be seen as developing during the seventeenth century. In the early years of the conflict between Charles I and Parliament, for example, Prince Rupert, the king’s nephew, in many ways a substitute for the king on the field of battle, achieved considerable notoriety for his acts of cruelty and theft.32 Having been created Duke of Cumberland by his uncle, he was nicknamed ‘Prince Robber, Duke of Plunderland’ by his own troops, such was the ruthlessness of his approach to the acquisition of goods and property from his own countrymen. But he also cultivated an image derived from the figure of Henry V as stories circulated of his going among his troops in disguise on the eve of battle. As Charles Carlton has remarked: In the English civil war these tales focused not upon the king but on the prince, who took over much of the mystique of the heroic leader that traditionally belonged to the sovereign.33 M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 139 ‘We band of brothers’ 139 Carlton also notes that Charles himself ‘ordered a soldier to be hanged on a signpost for stealing a chalice from a church’ and it is interesting to speculate on whether the king was consciously imitating Henry’s endorsement of the punishment of Bardolph in Shakespeare’s play (III.vi.98–114). Shakespeare seems to leave the Henry of Harfleur at a considerable distance from the ideal warrior-king. Henry identifies himself as a soldier first and foremost and then speaks of his own soldiers as being like Herod’s ‘slaughtermen’, the pursuers of the infant Christ. Not only will soldiers become merciless infanticides, but they will behave like the agents of a demonic biblical figure with a long history on the English stage.34 It is a shocking allusion that sits uncomfortably with a rationale that contrasts the figure of ‘Harry’ (of the undisciplined, feminised realm of the Boar’s Head) with an idealised ‘Henry’ of the manly battlefields of France. Over the course of Shakespeare’s histories we are thus presented with an odd set of bookends. At one end is the grotesquely villainous Richard of Gloucester who, despite everything, is ennobled by the field of battle. At the other end the saintly Henry/Herod, elevated but ultimately tarnished by his military role, stands like a method actor who cannot disengage from his part. Interestingly, another ‘soldier’ in another play evokes the figure of Herod as a traditionally noisy character likely to ‘split the ears of the groundlings’ and finally emptied of meaning by overacting. The soldier in question is also a prince who would be king, and the occasional is his advice to the Players in Act III of Hamlet. Notes 1. Quotations from the plays of William Shakespeare are taken from the three-volume edition of The Oxford Shakespeare (1987), ed. Stanley Wells and Gary Taylor with John Jowett and William Montgomery, Oxford: Oxford University Press. I use their titles for the first citation of each play but where appropriate revert to the more commonly used (shorter) titles thereafter. 2. Sir Philip Sidney [1591], ‘Astrophel and Stella’, in The Poems of Sir Philip Sidney, ed. W. A. Ringler Jr (1962), Oxford: Oxford University Press, 69, l. 7ff. 3. I use the term ‘Plantagenet’ to include the houses of Lancaster and York. 4. References are to Christopher Marlowe [1590], Tamburlaine the Great, ed. John D. Jump (1967), London: Edward Arnold. 5. Laurence Olivier played Richard III on stage a number of times during the war, most notably at the Old Vic in 1944. M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 140 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 140 war and nation in the theatre of shakespeare 6. Brecht’s play was developed over the years from 1941 and first performed after the war. See Bertolt Brecht (1965), Der aufhaltsame Aufstieg des Arturo Ui, Berlin: Suhrkamp Verlag. References here are to Bertolt Brecht, The Resistible Rise of Arturo Ui, ed. John Willet and Ralph Manheim (1981), London: Methuen. 7. Walter Benjamin (1967), Versuche über Brecht: Herausgegeben und mit einem Nachwort versehen von Rolf Tiedemann, Berlin, p. 125. I am grateful to Elisabeth Rother for her help with translating material from German. 8. This literary link with Richard III is reinforced by Ui’s wooing of Dullfleet’s widow (scene 13), recalling Richard’s wooing of Anne in the second scene of Shakespeare’s play, and again by the appearance to Ui, in a nightmare, of the ghost of the murdered Roma/Röhm in scene 14. Richard III is a reference point in Brecht’s play since its protagonist is a recognisable authority in the business of persuasion and ‘theatricality’ as well as a memorably bloodthirsty source of civil war. 9. Quoted in Brecht, The Resistible Rise of Arturo Ui, ed. Willet and Manheim, p. 107. For a longer analysis of Brecht’s play and its relation to the rhetoric of Julius Caesar, see Simon Barker (2005) ‘ “It’s an actor, boss. Unarmed”: the Rhetoric of Julius Caesar’, in Julius Caesar: New Critical Essays, ed. Horst Zander, New York and Abingdon: Routledge, pp. 227–39. 10. Ian McKellen (1996), William Shakespeare’s Richard III, Woodstock, NY: The Overlook Press, p. 7. 11. The equation works both ways as Fascism itself depended on precisely choreographed theatrical display. In Britain, Oswald Mosely devoted much time to the development of uniforms and other iconography, as well as to his own rhetorical skills. See Stephen Dorril (2006), Blackshirt: Sir Oswald Mosely and British Fascism, London: Penguin. 12. McKellen, William Shakespeare’s Richard III, p. 13. 13. Ibid. 14. See especially Jan Kott (1965), Shakespeare our Contemporary, London: Methuen; and Wilheim Hortman (2002), ‘Shakespeare on the Political Stage in the Twentieth Century’, in Stanley Wells and Sarah Stanton (eds), The Cambridge Companion to Shakespeare on Stage, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, pp. 212–29. 15. See E. M. W. Tillyard (1944), Shakespeare’s History Plays, London: Chatto & Windus. Tillyard explains in the book that one source for Richard III was Edward Hall’s 1548 The Union of the Two Noble and Illustrate Famelies of Lancastre and York. He notes that ‘in the total sequence of his plays dealing with the subject matter of Hall [Shakespeare] expressed successfully a universally held and still comprehensible scheme of history: a scheme fundamentally religious, by which events evolve under a law of justice and under the ruling of God’s M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 141 ‘We band of brothers’ 16. 17. 18. 19. 20. 21. 22. 23. 24. 25. 26. 27. 141 Providence, and of which Elizabeth’s England was the acknowledged outcome’ (pp. 320–1). Wells and Taylor use the title All is True for the play written by Shakespeare in collaboration with John Fletcher that saw the destruction of the Globe Theatre by fire on 29 June 1613 by the use of a cannon during the performance. The Famous History of the Life of King Henry the Eighth is the title used in the 1623 folio. William Shakespeare. King Richard III (1981), ed. Antony Hammond, London: Methuen, pp. 100–1. Hammond cites Peter Happé (1966), ‘The Vice 1350–1605’, PhD thesis, London University. Ibid., p. 100. Shakespeare, King Richard III, ed. Hammond, p. 79. I have seen productions of Arturo Ui in which the audience is duped into voting for Ui. In these terms it is clear to see the sense of Brecht’s interest in Richard III as providing a parallel with the success of Hitler: the idea that fascism was constructed in the tainted politics created by an earlier war. See, for example, James E. Ruoff (1975), Macmillan’s Handbook of Elizabethan and Stuart Literature, London and Basingstoke: Macmillan. He notes that the ‘real problems in the Henry VI plays do not, however, pertain to historical authenticity – a matter of as little concern to Shakespeare’s audience as to a modern one – but to the great difficulty he experienced in harnessing the chaotic events of his sources in the English chronicles. In the Wars of the Roses he found what he hoped was a single, controlling saga, and to this subject he brought a single theme that was both palatable to his audience and consistent with his personal view of English institutions and history: that divisive factions motivated by ambition and vanity are the principal threat to a commonwealth, and that these factions must be curbed by a powerful central authority sanctioned by hereditary right, justice and wisdom. But neither subject matter nor theme proved sufficient to give dramatic unity to the bewildering variety of characters and episodes in the chronicles. This failure is especially evident in Part I, where the “noble-minded Talbot” emerges as the hero out of a vague mass of unrelated episodes’ (pp. 195–6). Shakespeare, King Richard III, ed. Hammond, p. 106. Ibid. Ibid., p. 329, n. Jean E. Howard and Phyllis Rackin (1997), Engendering a Nation: A Feminist Account of Shakespeare’s English Histories, London: Routledge, p. 119. The sequence historically, with approximate dates of composition, is: The Life and Death of King John (1596–97); The Life and Death of Richard the Second (1595–96); The First Part of Henry the Fourth (1597); The Second Part of Henry the Fourth (1598); The Life of King M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 142 28. 29. 30. 31. 32. 33. 34. 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 142 war and nation in the theatre of shakespeare Henry the Fifth (1598); The First Part of King Henry the Sixth (1589–90); The Second Part of King Henry the Sixth (1590); The Third Part of King Henry the Sixth (1590); The Life and Death of Richard the Third (1592–93) and The Life of King Henry the Eighth (1613). See Wells and Taylor’s introduction to the play, p. 107. Ruoff, Macmillan’s Handbook of Elizabethan and Stuart Literature, p. 241. Howard and Rackin, Engendering a Nation, p. 119. See Paul A. Jorgensen (1956), Shakespeare’s Military World, Berkeley, CA: University of California Press, pp. 64–71 and 130–43. Pamphlets decribing this behaviour include the anonymous A True Relation of Prince Rupert’s Barbarous Cruelty against the Town of Birmingham, London; and Prince Rupert’s Burning Love to England Discovered in Birmingham’s Flames, London, both of 1643. Charles Carlton (1992), Going to the Wars: The Experience of the English Civil Wars 1638–1651, London and New York: Routledge. Of the extant Mysteries, Herod’s massacre is most graphically played out in the surviving York Cycle, performed until 1572. The fragment allotted to the Girdlers and Nailers has Herod’s reaction to the news of the birth of Christ, but also the anguish of the mothers whose children are murdered by his knights. M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 143 6 THE EXIT STRATEGY 1 The Tragedy of Hamlet, Prince of Denmark, together with The Tragedy of Othello, the Moor of Venice, The History of King Lear (or The Tragedy of King Lear) and The Tragedy of Macbeth are much concerned with warfare, despite their preoccupation with matters of seemingly personal or familial disquiet.1 Located mainly within courts, palaces or castles, each of their protagonists struggles variously across the sequence of plays with the ethics and theology of revenge, social caste and private jealousy, loyalty and love, and in the case of Macbeth, the relationship between fate and ambition. Macbeth simultaneously has to play its part in an ordering of Scottish history that unsurprisingly becomes central to the concerns of audiences in London with the succession of James VI of Scotland to the English throne. Yet in all these plays there is war: the tragedy is set against a background of war in the case of Hamlet and Othello, or results in warlike activity in the case of Macbeth and King Lear. Of the four plays, I want to concentrate on Hamlet, which includes what some audience members in the years leading up to the death of Elizabethan may have considered one of the most astonishing representations of warfare in the whole of the unfolding Shakespeare canon. They may still have been absorbed by the threat of a new Armada and were certainly able to witness the effects of Elizabeth’s Irish campaigns in the form of musters and the spectacle of gangs of returned soldiers in the streets of London. Had they the mind they could also have read of war in the many treatises available from the printers established in the area around St Paul’s. Those who had studied or heard of this material would know of its insistence on the appropriate qualities that defined the soldier, the ideal relationship between the military and the sovereign, and the way that warfare could be justified in the name of God and the state. Some attending early productions of Hamlet may thus have experienced something of an intellectual shock at the end of this new play. Hamlet begins with soldiers, contains many images and analogies pertaining to war, and M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 144 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 144 war and nation in the theatre of shakespeare includes news of battles that take place, as it were, just off-stage. At the end of the play these diverse allusions are united in a particularly acute visual and verbal evocation of the virtues of militarism. It is entirely possible to overlook or forget the very end of Hamlet. Such is the burden of the play’s tragic dimension, centred on the figure of Hamlet himself, that the question ‘what happens at the end of Hamlet?’ may well produce answers from those remembering productions which focus on other aspects of the play’s final moments. There is certainly plenty of memorable business from which to choose: the series of lethal physical exchanges, summaries of previous events and speeches about the future. Characters whom we hardly know take up important positions and what they have to say is critical in terms of bringing some order to the chaos of the scene. These are celebrated elements in the play and present many challenges for modern actors and directors. Elements of the speeches are well known, and there is always a high level of expectation from the audience. If nothing else, these interlocking exchanges signal the end, both of the play and of the high levels of concentration it has demanded all round. In performance there is often a discernible sense of release from the high level of commitment necessarily given to the play by actors, technicians and audience. So what do we remember from the end of Hamlet? It may be his final words, which, leaving aside the ‘O, O, O, O’ that persists in many editions, offer a convenient and moving point of closure, supported by Horatio’s memorably affecting: Now cracks a noble heart. Good night sweet prince. Flights of angels sing thee to thy rest. (V.ii.12–13) Alternatively, people often recall the sheer number of poisoned and lacerated bodies left on the stage, the result of the narrative of ‘carnal, bloody, and unnatural acts’, the ‘accidental judgements’ and the ‘casual slaughters’ that Horatio promises to record as a tale for posterity. For many, this extremely high level of carnage undoubtedly characterises the play, just as it should seem a source of horror for those who come on the scene from elsewhere. These figures, ambassadors and soldiers, should be used to human frailty and bloodletting, yet they recoil with horror from what they find at Elsinore. Yet the manner in which the dead are addressed and physically removed from the stage makes for a curious reflection on the attitudes to war that run through the play. It starts with an odd kind of M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 145 The Exit Strategy 145 competition which seems momentarily to arise between Horatio and the newly arrived Fortinbras over what to do with the bodies. It is not entirely a question of ownership, but it has something to do with the men’s positions in the hierarchy of those who are left alive to reflect on the slaughter and consider Denmark’s future. Horatio is the local man and has his story to tell. He is protective of those who will feature in it, even though they are now dead. Fortinbras is the outsider, and we cannot be entirely sure of his motives and plans. What to do with the bodies certainly has much to do with the purpose and meaning of remembrance – with stories of the dead. Horatio wants to get the record straight and is ever loyal to the memory of the dead. First of all he firmly denies the Ambassador’s claim that Claudius (or is it Hamlet?) commanded the death of Rosencrantz and Guildenstern, an important correction since someone’s reputation is at stake. He then advises a public display of the bodies: He never gave commandment for their death. But since so jump upon this bloody question You from the Polack wars, and you from England, Are here arrived, give order that these bodies High on a stage be placèd to the view; And let me speak to th’ yet unknowing world How these things came about. (V.ii.328–34) Horatio’s suggestion that the loss of so many may be in part mitigated by their serving some didactic purpose, the bodies displayed as an exemplification of past wrongs, seems to correspond with the highest ideals of the tragic form. The use of the word ‘unknowing’ acknowledges the fact that there is an audience within Denmark ready to learn of the particular circumstances and events of the story. Horatio invites the idea that the whole sequence of the action, once properly told, will serve as a parable of human behaviour that will add to the common good. For a moment one feels the playhouse charged with the moral force of Greek tragedy, the action reaching out from the orchestra to embrace a civic audience in a conditioning or corrective way. At the very least this promise of further analysis means that the ending of this play corresponds with other tragedies from the period.2 The story will begin when the play ends. Fortinbras seems to have read about the poetics of tragedy and says of Horatio’s promised account, ‘Let us haste to hear it’: the business of tragedy is to evoke pity and terror from which we learn to reform our ways. The play will M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 146 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 146 war and nation in the theatre of shakespeare start again, but this time with Horatio’s interpretation of events and the wisdom of hindsight. Yet the bodies remain, and what happens to them arrests the flow of the tragic formula. RITES OF PASSAGE Fortinbras agrees that Hamlet’s body (if not the others) should be borne to the stage just as Horatio has suggested. Yet this order, the first he gives with his new authority within Denmark (his ‘new order’), seems quite extraordinary in terms of the ceremony that is to accompany the elevation and display of Hamlet’s corpse: Let four captains Bear Hamlet like a soldier to the stage, For he was likely, had he been put on, To have proved most royally; and for his passage, The soldiers’ music and the rites of war Speak loudly for him. Take up the body. Such a sight as this Becomes the field, but here shows much amiss. Go, bid the soldiers shoot. (V.ii.349–57) If we were to be less than critical about the proceedings here it is perfectly possibly to see this elaborate ritual as a practical way of removing the bodies from the open playing area of an Elizabethan playhouse. As Nick de Somogyi has noted in his convincing discussion of the textual variants of the play, the Q2 text has ‘bodies’, so it may be that all the corpses are carried off.3 This would have been an understandable piece of stage business in an Elizabethan theatre, a kind of exit strategy that avoids leaving so many ‘dead’ actors on stage in full view of the audience, awaiting their ‘resurrection’, and already anxious for refreshment at the Mermaid Inn. In many tragedies directions of some kind are given for the removal of bodies. So, in Hamlet either all the bodies are carried from the stage, or simply Hamlet’s. Yet only Hamlet’s is going to receive the extraordinary accolade of a military escort, with officers as bearers and the soldiers’ music, the volley of shots; and perhaps there are other unspecified ‘rites of war’ that would have been familiar to Elizabethan audiences. The soldiers present may offer some kind of salute or a lowering of their arms in tribute. The question arises as to quite why Hamlet receives this treatment, and it is one worth exploring in some detail given the nature of the M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 147 The Exit Strategy 147 play, the times and the atmosphere of war in Shakespeare’s London. One explanation may be that since, as Fortinbras observes, the whole scene looks like a battlefield, its victims should be treated appropriately as some species of paramilitary. Perhaps Fortinbras, who tells of his sorrow, treats everyone he feels sorry for as though they had been soldiers. Yet if this were the case, then such dignity in death would have been extended to other parties in the casual slaughter of which he has yet to hear detail. In matters of degree, the corpses include royalty, and a soldier is supposed to honour even his enemy’s dead. Yet Hamlet is singled out for special treatment. Perhaps it is because he is a prince who has died young and wastefully and this is Norway’s version of the state funeral.4 What seems more likely from what he says is that Fortinbras really considers Hamlet to be a quasi-soldier. If this is the case, then a number of issues arise that reflect on the figures of Fortinbras and Hamlet, and on the presentation of militarism in the whole play. Fortinbras himself constitutes a kind of ‘exit strategy’ in his own right: his appearance on the scene facilitates the end of the play and allows a channelling of all that has happened through his person and into the future. Like everyone else, he will hear Horatio’s story, but what is more important is that he will assert his ‘rights of memory’ in Denmark. Someone needs to get a grip in Denmark and, if the military theorists believe in their own approach to statesmanship and their own values about the desired military leader, then Fortinbras fits the bill. He seems a disciplined military leader with a good degree of knowledge, which will be enhanced when Horatio gets to tell his tale. Fortinbras has a number of victories to his credit, and a good sense of what he sees as appropriate protocol when it comes to dealing with the unexpected, such as coming upon the corpse of a prince. Yet in terms of how the play has proceeded, Fortinbras is an unknown figure, his reputation depends almost entirely on an identity derived from his military background, bearing and purposefulness in the field, a point I shall return to. The fact that he orders military rites for Hamlet’s ‘passage’ to the stage invites the audience to consider that Fortinbras may well be about to establish a new order in Demark, but it may be one framed by his own line of work. Fortinbras obviously links royalty with militarism. He states that Hamlet, had he ‘been put on’ would have ‘prov’d’ most royal’, and would, presumably, then more distinctly have absorbed the values associated with a soldier. All this hardly seems credible when Hamlet is measured against the list of qualities that the contemporary military theorists saw as M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 148 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 148 war and nation in the theatre of shakespeare a requisite in the ‘true’ soldier. If anything, Hamlet lacks a uniform identity, let alone an identity that would be set off by donning a uniform. He is a figure dispersed across a range of sometimes complementary but often rather discontinuous identities. Many of these have been formulated for him by criticism, editorial decisions and at the hands of countless actors and directors. Hamlet was a point of identification for the Romantics, a case study for Freudians, a Renaissance man for humanists. In the theatre and on the screen he has been played as a rebel, a conservative, an atheist, a believer, a dissolute student, a philosopher, a hippie, a masochist, a misogynist, though rarely all these things in a single production. One fixed point about the figure of Hamlet is the difficulty we have in fixing him. Another is that he exhibits absolutely no potential in terms of a life in the armed forces (he cannot fight very well), although had they been around at the time he might have made a passable suicide bomber given his tendency to kill the innocent. Oddly, the only moment at which we see Hamlet securely fixed with a single identity is when Fortinbras practically declares him to have been a soldier all along. Fortinbras may be complimenting Hamlet by offering him the very best treatment according to his own militarised values, and the audience may miss its significance, but in fixing Hamlet thus he potentially seals off the prince from his own (or Horatio’s) story: thus militarism usurps the tragic form. DELICATE AND TENDER PRINCES Fortinbras’s military credentials correspond neatly with some of the ideals expressed by the military theorists, although the audience only has a glimpse of these in Act IV and the evidence comes from a single Norwegian Captain and is at once interpreted for us by Hamlet himself. Coming across Fortinbras’s army en route to engage the Poles, Hamlet asks of the Captain the nature of the land that is to be fought over. The Captain replies: Truly to speak, and with no addition, We go to gain a little patch of ground That hath in it no profit but the name. To pay five ducats, five, I would not farm it, Nor will it yield to Norway or the Pole A ranker rate, should it be sold in fee. (IV.iv.8–13) M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 149 The Exit Strategy 149 For the military theorists such a campaign may have seemed as justified and impressive as Hamlet deems it to be. The accent is on ‘name’ and prestige, and one can speculate whether the action is called for in order to boost the reputation of Fortinbras and his uncle in Norway. Hamlet considers this a turning point in his quest for revenge and is spurred on: Witness this army of such mass and charge, Led by a delicate and tender prince, Whose spirit with divine ambition puffed Makes mouths at the invisible event, Exposing what is mortal and unsure To all that fortune, death and danger dare, Even for an eggshell. (IV.iv.38–44) Given the atmosphere in London at the time of Hamlet’s first performances this image of a military paradigm may have invited some scepticism. Hamlet’s aesthetics may have been appealing to the military writers of time: the talk is of divinity in arms and of a military spirit, but it is an abstraction that must have seemed a long way from the actual experience of war for some members of Shakespeare’s audience. Yet this is a play and there is room for idealism. What is more telling is the seamless and circular relationship between Hamlet and Fortinbras. Hamlet recognises Fortinbras as a ‘delicate and tender prince’. Given the way that the campaign is such a source of inspiration in terms of his own stalled pursuit of Claudius, the Norwegian instantly becomes an embodiment of his own better self which has hitherto been obscured by doubt and hesitation. Hamlet gazes on what he could have been and must become. Militarism provides him with a quasi-spiritual framework of consciousness and a programme for action that, albeit on a grand and tragic scale, mirrors the relationship between the military subject and the civilian subject found in contemporary theory. Since Hamlet knows little of Fortinbras beyond his leadership of this campaign over ‘an eggshell’, he cannot think of the possible consequences of such foreign wars of prestige and honour. As we shall see in a later chapter, had he looked at the way other dramatists represented this kind of war, he might have felt less inclined towards Fortinbras as a hero and inspirational leader. At the end of the play, Fortinbras’s treatment of Hamlet’s body can be seen as a compliment repaid. He knows little of Hamlet ahead of Horatio’s story, but seems to recognise in the prince M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 150 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 150 war and nation in the theatre of shakespeare something of himself, which is not surprising as Hamlet has apparently taken on his mantle. By intuition his first command in Denmark is to give Hamlet a soldier’s funeral which, one might assume, would be one he would wish for himself. In a way, Hamlet has become Fortinbras and moved a step further towards his revenge, although ‘what is mortal and unsure’ and ‘fortune, death and danger’ prevailed in his personal battlefield, as they did not for Fortinbras in his war against the Poles, even though he fearlessly embraces their threat. In a reciprocal way Fortinbras becomes Hamlet, ‘the delicate and tender prince’ of Horatio’s story, and the guns fire their homage to the dead soldier prince. Horatio still has his story to tell, but in the annals of Danish history this will now be a story of a soldierly prince, mortally wounded in the line of duty, but replaced by a princely soldier from a neighbouring country. Talk of military discipline, the terror and pity of war, and the loss of our better selves can nicely frame the story. For Danish history this will sound more decorous than a narrative of ‘carnal, bloody, and unnatural acts’, ‘accidental judgements’ and ‘casual slaughters’, all of which it might prefer to keep dark. THE TRAGIC SOLDIER Another effect of this ‘commissioning’ of Hamlet can be observed when the play is considered, as it often is, alongside the other three principal tragedies. Hamlet may have been, like Fortinbras, a ‘delicate and tender prince’ but once he is imagined as a soldier, he fits the set of plays that includes Othello, King Lear and Macbeth. The protagonists of each of these is a soldier of some kind and, given the circumstances of their downfalls, one is reminded of the military theorists’ scorn for what they consider to be the malign influence on soldiers of women and domesticity. Othello’s reputation as a soldier has secured him employment by the Venetian state. A possible interpretation of this position is that his continuing ‘outsider’ status is due not only to the general exclusivity of Venetian society and the racism that threads through the play. An additional factor informed Italian militarism: a suspicion of soldiers who did not have a long and ancestral association with the city or region for which they fought, and Shakespeare might have known about that from reading Machiavelli, who also, as we have seen, despised the concept of the mercenary. Italian culture instead lauded the concept of the knight and in reality kept chivalry alive, particularly in the northern city-states, long after M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 151 The Exit Strategy 151 its virtual disappearance elsewhere in Europe. Whilst Othello is not a mercenary, and Machiavelli preferred citizen soldiers to the anachronism of knights, Shakespeare’s play is edged by concerns about the identity of various kinds of soldier. Othello’s self-image is laden with a kind of medievalism, which contrasts with the representations of military matters elsewhere in the play. The best example comes at a crisis point when Othello associates his supposed betrayal by Desdemona with a loss of his occupation: I had been happy if the general camp, Pioneers and all, had tasted her sweet body, So I had nothing known. O, now for ever Farewell the tranquil mind, farewell content, Farewell the plumèd troops and the big wars That makes ambition virtue! O, farewell, Farewell the neighing steed and the shrill trump, The spirit-stirring drum, th’ ear-piercing fife, The royal banner, and all quality, Pride, pomp, and circumstance of glorious war! And O, you mortal engines whose rude throats Th’ immortal Jove’s dread clamours counterfeits, Farewell! Othello’s occupation’s gone. (III.iii.350–62) Othello’s status is defined in terms of his profession, by comparison with which everything else often seems secondary: the aesthetics of war dim the appeal of Desdemona and the marital bed. Othello is an unusual figure for the English stage of the period for reasons other than the fact that he is one of only a few sympathetically drawn black characters. His fall has an odd parallel with the perceived decline in the status of the English soldier, which obsessed contemporary theorists. He is outwardly still a vision of chivalry, yet this appears to have become a brittle shell, like the knights in late Tudor tournaments who looked good in the tiltyard but would have fared poorly on the field of battle, or so the military writers claimed. Shakespeare’s Othello, according to his own description of himself, also seems something of an anachronism. He is outwitted by a species of latterday Vice in the shape of the rather modern and ‘political’ Iago. Shakespeare seems to use Othello’s military identity in a way that increases our sympathy for him: his downfall is associated with a loss of this image of himself, which is defined entirely by his status as a soldier. Fortinbras ‘contains’ the wayward and dispersed subjectivity of Hamlet in the image of a soldier, whilst Iago prises Othello from his. Tellingly, both plays M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 152 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 152 war and nation in the theatre of shakespeare show that by the early years of the seventeenth century, audiences might well have had their doubts about placing their trust in protagonists whose identity was shaped by their military prowess. This is certainly true of King Lear whom one can imagine had once led armies of knights. His increasing loss of status is measured against the loss of his knights which is understandable, but lacks credibility the more often he mentions it, and particularly by comparison with the loss of faith in his family. Diverse as the soldiers in Hamlet, Othello and King Lear are they invite audiences to consider the fact that military power is superficial, a matter more of outward display than inner sensibility, and that those who claim it as a badge of masculinity seem to be the most vulnerable men. In Shakespeare’s four main tragedies the central figures are protagonists rather than ‘heroes’, so although we may sympathise with their plight, we are not necessarily invited to respect them. Since Shakespeare makes them all so conspicuously soldiers (by sleight of hand in the case of Hamlet), he may have been contributing the tragedies to the critique he has already offered of military protagonists in the history plays. History meets tragedy in Macbeth where military prowess most conspicuously reveals itself as a matter of sheer brutality. One wonders whether the Captain at the beginning of Macbeth is the same as the one who tells Hamlet about Fortinbras’s exploits against the Poles, travelling from country to country with a special interest in battles involving Norweigans and marvelling at various acts of seeming military excellence. Here in Scotland he reports on the way that brave Macbeth (‘well he deserves that name’) ‘unseamed’ the rebel Macdonald ‘from the nave to th’ chops / And fixed his head upon our battlements’ (I.i.22–3). Is this an Englishman’s view of Scottish tactics (Macbeth’s own head gets this treatment at the end of the play), or simply a rare representation of the reality of hand-to-hand fighting? Whatever the case, it is a stark image that reflects on the way that war legitimises activities that within the walls of castles provoke madness, hallucinations and guilt and does little for the reputation of the soldier as a figure of respect. Notes 1. I am again using the titles and following the compositional sequence of plays established by Stanley Wells and Gary Taylor (see note 2 in Chapter 5). M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 153 The Exit Strategy 153 2. In Othello, for example, Lodovico promises at the end to relate the story to ‘the state’: the state will learn and reform, acting with knowledge of what has occurred in order to avoid repeating such folly. 3. Nick de Somogyi (1998), Shakespeare’s Theatre of War, Burlington, VT and Aldershot: Ashgate, p. 235. Another issue is at stake in the differences between the Quarto variants. As de Somogyi explains, Q2 sees a reduction in the significant amount of military imagery in Q1, which he attributes in part to the official moves towards more peaceful international relations in the reign of James Stuart. 4. While writing this I thought of an analogy in the extraordinary occasion of the funeral of the Princess of Wales in 1997. The memorable week between her death and her funeral was made even odder for some when Diana, who not long before had been campaigning for an international ban on landmines, was borne to Westminster Abbey on a gun carriage surrounded by soldiers. Here was a sight that more became the field. M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 154 M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 155 Part IV Refusal M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 156 M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 2:15 pm Page 157 7 GENTLER CRAFTS 1 Shakespeare is replete with war and pity. Beyond the histories, where it is unsurprisingly a central theme, and the bloody classical plays, drawn from the heroic martial narratives that were enthusiastically cited by the military theorists, war also penetrated the tragedies and even the comedies to an extent that makes it almost universal in the canon. It is therefore not surprising to find that war similarly absorbed those who wrote before, during and after Shakespeare’s productive twenty-year period of writing for the stage. For some, notably Christopher Marlowe, war could be presented as an abstraction. The two parts of Tamburlaine the Great present militarism on one level as an extreme medium through which an audience observes how the potential of a protagonist for greatness is tragically squandered, leaving only futility and waste. Generically, war for Tamburlaine is as necromancy is for Faustus, as the allure of sex is for his Edward II, and as the corroding temptation of Machiavellian power is for Barabas in the The Jew of Malta. Yet in the context of the Elizabethan theorists’ demands for militarism to become less of an abstraction and more of a concrete reification of the emerging state, say, in the form of a standing army whose business was to be conducted by disciplined soldiers, Tamburlaine reaches far beyond mere tragedy. The figure of Tamburlaine offers audiences a vision, in a manner that is much more distinct than in Shakespeare, of the way that the militarised male can become detached from any meaningful sense of political process. Tamburlaine speaks constantly of military discipline and seems to be especially well versed in the contemporary manuals of military theory. In the second part he explains to his sons how he will teach them elements of this theory: But now, my boys, leave off and list to me That mean to teach you rudiments of war. I’ll have you learn to sleep upon the ground, M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 158 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 158 war and nation in the theatre of shakespeare March in your armour, thorough watery fens, Sustain the scorching heat and freezing cold, Hunger and thirst, right adjuncts of the war, And after this to scale a castle war, Besiege a fort, to undermine a town, And make whole cities caper in the air. (III.ii.53–61) He proceeds to describe in some detail how to establish and defend a fort, taking most of the technical information about angles, ditches, bulwarks, counterscarps, countermines, and so on from Paul Ive’s The Practise of Fortification.1 One is reminded of Thomas Smith’s list of the qualities he saw as requisite in the ‘expert soldier’ described earlier in the military manuals. For Smith, the ideal soldier would be one: that has some sight in the mathematicals and in geometrical instruments, for the conveying of mines under the ground, to plant and manage great ordnance, to batter or beat down the walles of any towne or castle; that can measure altitude, lattitudes and longitudes, etc.2 Whether in offence or defence, Tamburlaine’s expertise is learned, precise and utterly up-to-date in terms of Elizabethan military science. One wonders whether the citizens of Harfleur would have fared better against the marauding Henry V had they read the Elizabethan books Tamburlaine seems to have known. The anachronism gives him an intellectual edge that is lacking in the play’s two main sources.3 Tamburlaine the Great sees Marlowe at the height of his powers, and the lyricism of the poetry soars in response to the atrocities that pile one upon another. Throughout the plays Tamburlaine expresses his belief in the general codes of militarism that have fostered and endorsed his military ‘professionalism’. Yet the discourse itself is dangerously autonomous: the politics of the siege, as Tamburlaine explains to his sons, lead inevitably to their own brutal conclusion, that the purpose of all this is simply to ‘murder the foe’ (III.iii.83). Marlowe presents Tamburlaine as grotesque and exaggerated – taunting his caged prisoners, slaughtering the virgins sent to plead for his mercy, slaying one of his own sons for cowardice and finally drowning the inhabitants of Babylon – but Tamburlaine sees himself as a model of militarism. As an apparatus conceived to show tragic hubris, all this is, to say the least, elaborate. That Tamburlaine simply sickens and dies at the end of Part II (handing over the business of world domination to his M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 159 Gentler Crafts 159 remaining sons), instead of suffering a fate to match his own excess, shows Marlowe resisting the accepted formula of tragedy. It is for this reason that there is little correspondence between the figures of Tamburlaine and the Vice-like Richard of Gloucester. At least the latter, like the equally ambitious Macbeth, is visited by ghostly spectres of his conscience. Nowhere in Tamburlaine’s progress does he speak of the horrors of his deeds, unless it is to celebrate them, and nowhere does he express any remorse. If there are doubts, they are only over whether or not Amyras is suited to his inheritance: Let not thy love exceed thine honour, son, Nor bar thy mind that magnanimity That nobly must admit necessity. Sit up, my boy, and with those silken reins Bridle the steeled stomachs of those jades. (V.iii.199–203) There is nothing in the way of redemptive self-knowledge to cloud his final vision, his own spirit guiding his newly crowned son’s chariot into further conquests. He dies almost cheerfully: The nature of thy chariot will not bear A guide of baser temper than myself, More than heaven’s coach the pride of Phaëton. Farwell, my boys! My dearest friends, farewell! My body feels, my soul doth weep to see Your sweet desires depriv’d my company, For Tamburlaine, the scourge of God, must die. (V.iii.242–8) There is certainly no sense of justice for those who suffered as ‘collateral damage’ as Tamburlaine rampaged throughout the world, and the references to his soul may have seemed to an Elizabethan audience the height of perversity. The popularity of Tamburlaine the Great in its day may attest to the morbid desire of its audiences for excessive displays of carnage and brutality: and the scenes of torture and humiliation are as graphic and cruel as anything we see in the modern world. Yet if it is the case that one of the attractions of the play is the lyricism of its language, Tamburlaine’s mastery of military rhetoric might have been seen as giving poetic voice to the often rather dull and repetitive polemic of the military theorists whom Marlowe had clearly read. It is as if an early version of ‘The Double-Armed Man’ himself, later framed and contained in the engravings accompanying William Neade’s 1625 text, finds a voice and steps out to M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 160 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 160 war and nation in the theatre of shakespeare bestride the world. Members of an Elizabethan audience, attuned to the atmosphere of conflict that dominated the period when the play first appeared, witnessing musters and militias, and possibly reading the contemporary military theory, may have made the connection between these various textual and non-textual manifestations of war. And perhaps William Neade, with his nostalgia for the longbow and carefully detailed descriptions of drill, may have after all only been trying to ‘contain’ the excessive military zeal of those earlier military theorists upon whose work Marlowe drew. Yet even the exaggerated Tamburlaine is susceptible to the ‘regressive’ power of an alternative discourse of the ‘effeminate and faint’. However precise his theory and however determined his action on the battlefield, disciplining his men, murdering the foe and humiliating his prisoners, a nagging doubt remains. As Alan Shepard has noted: Off the battlefield . . . Tamburlaine is not always the stalwart general, but is sometimes troubled about the power of speech to shape – or better yet, to warp – his martial persona. We see this most acutely in his panegyric to Zenocrate that follows upon the slaughter of the virgins near the end of Part One. His songful praise is far from humble ablution, and seems to hold no hint of self-recrimination, nor threat to his masculinity. Yet he stops himself midway through it: But how unseemly is it for my sex, My discipline of arms and chivalry, My nature, and the terror of my name, To harbour thoughts effeminate and faint! (V.i.174–7)4 Shepard’s Marlowe’s Soldiers: Rhetorics of Masculinity in the Age of Armada has addressed the representation of warfare in Marlowe’s works with a thoroughness that would be hard to emulate. He believes that Marlowe responded to the war fever of Elizabethan London with a range of plays that offered audiences ‘a far more complex experience of that war fever than any other contemporary English playwright, Shakespeare included’.5 His conclusion is worth quoting in full because it presents an inviting link to the plays I shall come to in the remaining part of this study: Marlowe made it all but impossible to leave a performance of one of his plays fully convinced that soldiers and the warlords who employ them do in fact deserve the absolute epistemic control they were bidding for in the midst of the Armada scares in a London at war. Paradoxically, his plays suggest, state security may in fact actually be endangered by soldiers. M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 161 Gentler Crafts 161 When they buy into the rhetoric of ‘epic masculinity,’ a code of identity requiring them to eliminate all difference from their local surroundings and from their own characters, soldiers ‘protect’ the state in ways that may be fatal – to the civilians who cross them and to the state they are aiming to protect.6 One way of endorsing Shepard’s view of the singularity of Marlowe’s treatment of the relationship between early modern military theory, the impact of war on the citizens of London and the potential the theatre had to interrogate this ‘war fever’ is to investigate alternative responses to war. A range of plays complements the sceptical views on warfare that can be read in interpretations of the work of Shakespeare and Marlowe. Yet these other plays go beyond mere scepticism by celebrating distinctly non-military ways of valuing the world that was emerging during the troubled transition from the medieval to the modern. A strand of unease about militarism as a code of behaviour for the state or the individual can be found in much earlier English texts. The mid-fourteenth-century Wynnnere and Wastoure seems radical in its discussion of militarised hierarchies and imposition of taxation upon a merchant class reluctant to finance Edward III’s French wars.7 I am also thinking here of the satirical Middle English Alliterative Morte Arthure, a representation of war, myth of nation and chivalry that is much more critical of their tenets than Malory and Caxton’s patriotic Le Morte d’Arthur of 1485.8 And Chaucer’s Knight’s Tale, or rather the knight that tells it, has been read controversially as an exposé of a redundant chivalric order. Editors, critics and historians have claimed that such texts stand outside the orthodox traditions of chivalric romance, undermining its values and establishing a critique of the excesses of war.9 Before turning to the dramatic texts that may be said both to perpetuate the scepticism of these older ones, but also to include visions of non-military social organisation, I want first to take some account of a contemporaneous work of prose. Thomas Deloney’s The Gentle Craft was written in about 1596, between Shakespeare’s Richard III and Henry V, and for a number of reasons appears as a significant text in terms of its presentation of war and nation.10 First, there is such an abrupt discontinuity between the treatment of war in this text and the plays dealt with so far that it can be seen as a portal into the alternative dramatic worlds which actively celebrate a refusal of war. It is in itself the source of a particular play, Thomas Dekker’s The Shoemaker’s Holiday of 1599, but it also very clearly captures the anti-war themes M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 162 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 162 war and nation in the theatre of shakespeare found in many other examples of contemporary drama.11 It is worth addressing here because it can be seen to be consolidating these themes in a vivid and radical way, almost as a compendium of the concerns Londoners had for the impact of war upon their lives. Secondly, as we shall see, Deloney’s celebration of the long ‘history’ of shoemakers and their craft refashions the hierarchical chivalric formula underpinning the myths and legends of courtly literature, opening an ideological space for his subsequent privileging of the lives of ordinary people in the London of Henry VI. Here, if anywhere in the prose writing of the Elizabethan and early Stuart period, is to be found an account, however romanticised, of the detail of the way that life was lived for certain groups of Londoners. The plays that I shall address in the next chapter often respond to a similarly democratic impulse, but the clarity of the vision in The Gentle Craft is itself worthy of analysis. Shakespeare and Marlowe produced plays that principally featured the nobility, introducing commoners, sometimes as figures of fun, but almost always as in some way subservient to their masters and mistresses, even if modern critics and audiences take an egalitarian approach to this hierarchy. Like the plays, The Gentle Craft is a work of fiction, but there is a firm sense of realism that is convincing enough to suggest that this is a fairly authentic encounter with long-dead Londoners, working through their aspirations and setbacks, their petty grievances and their huge desires. Part of this effect is due to the strong evocation of place. Deloney’s London was, of course, perhaps the most important centre in Europe for the publication, printing, distribution and consumption of the written word: military treatises, pamphlets and prose works like The Gentle Craft itself. It is therefore unsurprising that the city itself is the subject of much of what is being written, and that this writing is aligned to a theatre that both complements and compliments these other forms. In The Gentle Craft, London, as in many of the contemporary plays, is captured in a particular period of its evolution that is coming to a close as Deloney is writing. It is not that the text is simply nostalgic about a passing London, and still less is it an evocation of a kind of fading ‘Merrie England’, as the constant references to warfare and poverty demonstrate. Rather, it seems to be the product of a desire somehow to arrest and record places and people – and the stories that unite them – in the face of the accelerating change and the warlike climate that characterised the last years of Tudor England. In order to do this, Deloney conjures an optimism and fortitude in the circles of the craftworkers he describes which further underline M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 163 Gentler Crafts 163 the appeal of the text and justify its examination in juxtaposition with the plays. It is hard to quantify, but an argument in favour of The Gentle Craft can surely be made on aesthetic grounds that relate to its sheer optimism about the potential human beings have to live in communities and eschew warfare. Along with all its socio-political insight, and its openness to students of class and commerce, gender and geography, this is a text that also invites investigation because of its consistent good humour, constant vitality and an elaborate celebration of the human spirit. It is worth repeating that this is not an idealised world, but one where the spirit seems to have to remain optimistic since despair, destitution and danger are never far away – caused not least by preparations for, or the outcome of, war. The Gentle Craft is also significant because of the approach it takes to ideas of nation. The plays of Shakespeare and Marlowe foreground matters of national and racial difference, although not necessarily in a racist or nationalist way: Deloney positively emphasises inclusive and multi-ethnic social orders based on craft and community. Given that this positive assertion of community is accompanied by references to international warfare, the text invites a glimpse of toleration and integration which stands in opposition to the xenophobia that characterised the work of the military theorists. Lastly, The Gentle Craft deserves its place in a study that contrasts prose and drama because in a sense it stands between the two. Just as military prose, and even Erasmus’s writing, often contained ‘dialogues’ conducted in specified locations, teasing out argument and counter-argument, Deloney’s text is characterised by the generous space given in the text to speech. This in itself may have drawn it to the attention of the playwright Dekker. The Gentle Craft may have been seen by some as an early form of novel, but at times it looks more like a script. It is as if Delony wrote with a popular readership in mind, but felt the compelling influence of the playhouse and its possibilities. THE GENTLE CRAFT Deloney left the first two parts of what was almost certainly planned as a trilogy. In the first he outlines the mythical origins of the shoemaker’s trade, recounting the legend of Hugh and Winifred, patron saints of shoemaking. He then tells the story of the shoemaking princes Crispine and Crispianus and finally, moving from legend to ‘history’, describes the spectacular rise of Simon Eyre to Lord Mayor M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 164 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 164 war and nation in the theatre of shakespeare of London, including along the way numerous romantic intrigues and subplots set in and around Eyre’s expanding household. A significant governing theme is the belief in the essential nobility of the shoemaker. In folklore a shoemaker is likely to be an exiled prince necessarily disguised due to an earlier misfortune. In history he proves an individual of high moral integrity and worth, yet also canny and capable of the occasional sleight of hand in his ambitious social and business dealings. The second part introduces new figures and plots, all more or less connected to the shoemaking craft. Deloney recounts the story of Richard Casteler and his complex life in pursuit of love for himself and as an object of desire for others. Chapters V–VII of Part II describe the household of the successful cobbler Master Peachey. His qualities are expressed locally by his bravery in confronting two bullying captains who show contempt for his trade. Abroad, he shows his loyalty and commitment by sending a troop of men to defend the Isle of Wight against the encroaching French who have shown disdain for Peachey’s king and country. These episodes are evidence of what might be seen as a significant strand in the narratives: the influence of warfare upon the lives of ordinary citizens of Deloney’s world. Thus, there is humour, but it is humour in the face of an understated, yet seemingly very present threat to individual and community wellbeing. There is the external threat to the peaceful islanders from the French, but also the internal threat from unrestrained professional military men. Deloney’s text describes his vision of the London of Henry VI, but as with the staged histories of Shakespeare and his contemporaries, there is a clear resonance of the concerns of the present, including the Elizabethan preoccupation with war. The Gentle Craft invites its readers to contemplate the idea that in its fictional world conflict is never far away. Although there is a sense of ambivalence towards war, as there is in the theatre of Shakespeare and other contemporary dramatists, the text portrays war’s consequences as a dreadful intrusion into the text’s system of values, threatening the dominant atmosphere of geniality. GENRE, CLASS AND COMMUNITY The various interweaving stories that make up The Gentle Craft are evidence of the rich mythology and folklore that underpinned the craft of shoemaking. Other trades – especially weaving – had similar traditions about their origins and values, some of which have survived M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 165 Gentler Crafts 165 to the present day as part of the heritage of craftsmen and craftswomen at work in manufacturing. In Deloney’s time these elements gave each trade an historical resonance, equivalent, say, to the narratives of aristocratic romance, and yet they also had a topical vitality. It might be said that the health and stability of a particular trade could be measured by the credibility of its folklore and how widely it was understood and transmitted within the community of a particular trade’s practitioners. In terms of genre, critics have seen texts such as The Gentle Craft as reflecting a largely metropolitan change in taste, readership and appeal that signalled the end of Elizabethan ‘late medieval’ romance and pointed ahead to the early novel form of the late seventeenth and early eighteenth centuries. Indeed The Gentle Craft is commonly seen as evidence of an expanding readership’s weariness with the tradition of courtly romance exemplified by the work of Edmund Spenser, John Lyly and Philip Sidney. Public taste, sometimes described as ‘middle-class’, was switching to pamphlets about London street life or popular culture in general by writers such as Nashe, Greene and Dekker. Deloney combined features of this kind of writing with the earlier romantic tradition so that ‘knights’ became artisans and their heroic deeds became more realistic. James Ruoff has described this phenomenon thus: Deloney retained much of the polyphonic narration and vagarious events and characterizations still attractive about the courtly romances, but he made ingenious improvisations on the old values by glorifying the craft of shoemaker or weaver as thoroughly as Sidney and Spenser had apotheosized true courtesy. Deloney turned the knights and ladies of the courtly romances into fun-loving artisans and lively wenches, and placed them in the familiar environs of Berkshire, Norwich, or London rather than in Fairyland or Mauritania.12 Critical debate over this work has for a long time centred on issues of class identity and mobility, as befits a society where these issues were to the fore. Deloney’s texts rest on popular unifying ideological motifs, such as anti-Catholicism and nationalism, and seem on the surface to support an organic view of the social formation in which artisans can mix with royalty and ‘get by’ (despite social inequalities) by dint of quick-wittedness and hard work. However, there are severe tensions in the social world of The Gentle Craft just as there are in The Shoemaker’s Holiday. These texts remain a rich source of evidence for the social diversity of a society that is rapidly becoming M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 166 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 166 war and nation in the theatre of shakespeare urban and class-conscious. Matters of identity are to the fore in terms of gender, class and status, and the issue of warfare in these texts is an example of how they tend to foreground discontinuity and alienation in the social structure, at the same time as they promote social cohesion and consensus. Three themes emerge in The Gentle Craft that are indicative of changing patterns within the social environment from which the text emerged. These are important in terms of the way that Deloney fashions his evocation of the classical/mythical stories of early shoemakers, and even more important with respect to his ‘history’ of episodes and characters from the more recent past. The first of these is the way that Deloney acknowledges the ‘international’ social composition of the communities described in the stories and therefore, by implication, of the wider social world of contemporary London. Second is the emphasis given to social standing and mobility, and the recognition that history is altering the status of the retreating chivalric aristocracy and facilitating the emergence of a new class. Third is the presence of war as a backdrop to the mythical and ‘historical’ perspectives on shoemaking. War, or talk of war, had a part to play in conditioning the social milieu of the Londoners and others for whom Deloney produced his work, making the fictional text intelligible in the light of their own experiences and expectations. It is partly the way that these issues are presented to the reader through a mixture of genres that gives The Gentle Craft its curious potential for an unsettling of an idealised or romanticised vision of the chivalric past. Most evident is the way that the text is characterised by the formal mixing of prose and song. The songs perform a variety of functions in the text and are often very funny. Yet on occasion the humour is juxtaposed with what seem more serious debates about the issues to hand. An example of this is the bawdy song about marriage in Chapter VII of Part I. Crispine sings of marriage, but only in the poignant context of the loss of his brother, pressed into the wars in Gaul. His song is to be followed by ‘a deep discourse of the matter’ (marriage and sexuality) between Crispine and a journeyman which Deloney does not recount as ‘it appertaines not to our matter’, leaving it open to the reader’s imagination. Indeed, a distinctive formal pattern applies to many of the narratives in The Gentle Craft overall that can be said to operate by means of a sudden gathering together or closing off of the strands of a particular story in a short and often abrupt ending. In some respects this pattern has something in common with M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 167 Gentler Crafts 167 the style of the joke: a long story is rounded off with a quick punchline marking the end of the particular episode and building an expectation in the reader of something quite different in the next section. Yet the reader is never certain whether the episode will end joyously – or at least hopefully – or in sudden tragedy; but where it is tragedy, the cause is usually war. This generic pattern is established early on in Part I with the long story of Hugh and Winifred that ends in Chapter III with their graphic and poignant deaths. The romantic genre expected in an account of such noble protagonists gives way to a sharp realism in the disturbing treatment of their physical remains, leaving only their good names to posterity as the patron saints of shoemaking. There is something quite shocking in this sudden closure and switch of styles. Yet both stylistically and thematically the next chapter goes some way to resolving the tension of this discontinuity by emphasising realism and, as a microcosm of the text overall, privileging the crude but durable culture of the shoemaker. Stealing away Hugh’s bones, and characteristically debating their possible function in a series of jokes, the chapter ends with a critical motif of shoemaking culture, the idea of the shoemaker’s tools as ‘Saint Hugh’s bones’. This is carefully set against the theme of war which is to be central to the new narrative of the legend of Crispine and Crispianus, and the one that later threads through the ‘history’ narratives that conclude the first part and form the substance of the second: And it shall be concluded that what Journey-man soever he be hereafter, that cannot handle the Sword and Buckler, his Long Sword, or a Quarter staffe, sound the Trumpet, or play upon the Flute and beare his part in a three mans Song: and readily reckon up his Toole in Rime; except he have born Colours in the field, being a Lieutenant, a Sergeant or Corporall, shall forfeit and pay a pottle of wine, or be counted for a colt: to which they answered all viva voce Content, content, and then after many merry Songs, they departed. And never after did they travell without these tools on their backs: which ever since were called Saint Hughes bones.13 The comment on professional soldiering is interesting, especially in view of what is to come in the later story of the shoemakers’ antipathy to the invasion of their community by military men. These switches in style and mood may not be surprising if we see The Gentle Craft as an example of a form that is emerging against (and informing as a source) the attendant dramatic writing of the period. Deloney, it might be said, had an eye to satirising the romances of an earlier M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 168 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 168 war and nation in the theatre of shakespeare period, but at the same time a committed vision of the serious aspects of nation, class and warfare in his own times. He seems to have sought to engage his readers by distilling a wide range of styles, which would appeal through a sense of contrast and counterpoint. NATION AND IDENTITY The uncertainties in the political and social environment from which The Gentle Craft emerged were numerous and complex: war and food shortages dominated the contemporary London scene and both find their way into Deloney’s account of an earlier London. As we have seen, despite the successful repulsion of the Spanish Armada in 1588, Deloney’s England was awash with rumours of renewed incursions, new enemies, foreign spies, Catholic plots and all manner of potentially destabilising phenomena. And all this was set against the realisation that there was little to defend the relatively new Protestant state, in the form of a standing army or a police force, from its internal and external enemies. Deloney’s earlier work casts him as an influential polemicist in this sea of uncertainties, with his broadsides against Catholicism, his invective against the Spanish and his complaints about foreign workers.14 He seems to have been something of a campaigner for the dispossessed and those falling victim to the food shortages that were a recurrent feature of both urban and rural life in the closing years of Elizabeth’s reign. These were mostly the result of failures in the harvest, especially in 1596 when Deloney was probably writing The Gentle Craft, but it was claimed in some quarters that their impact was aggravated by an influx of foreigners adding to the number of mouths to feed. Such alarmist thinking was current in the time of Simon Eyre as much as it was in the last decade of the sixteenth century. Deloney, thinking historically or topically, could not have failed to have been sensitive to the presence in London and elsewhere of representatives of foreign societies and cultures. There is a sustained awareness in the text of the ‘otherness’ of newly arrived settlers from abroad, but it is perhaps surprising to find that although there are exceptional moments, The Gentle Craft offers more of a celebration of cultural difference than an invective against immigrants. Foreigners are often central to the plots of the various stories, and whilst their fortunes are mixed and their speech and social skills caricatured, notably in the case of Haunce the Dutchman and John the Frenchman, they are rarely portrayed as being more deserving of such M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 169 Gentler Crafts 169 treatment than indigenous figures in the eclectic mix that inhabits the collection of stories overall. The worlds of The Gentle Craft reveal a sympathetic awareness of the people of other lands and their customs. The reader can find the ‘Dutch Maiden’ of Part I, Chapter III, or the ‘Egyptian woman’ of Part II, Chapter IX, ‘that at Black-wall was in travell with child, and had such hard labour, that she was much lamented among all the wives that dwelt thereabout’.15 In these episodes and others, cultural differences, in the form of national and religious identities, are eventually overridden by the superior values of the community of shoemakers. The contrast with Deloney’s early compositions and with the tenor of the military texts is significant. It seems that Deloney had a change of heart with respect to his opinion of foreigners, just as the military texts became more and more affirmative about ideals of nation and state. RANK AND ECONOMY Clearly Deloney was aware of the impact of the economic instability of the times about which he wrote and the time in which he lived. The Gentle Craft records facets of economic exchange such as conditions of employment, investment and mercantile adventure – all of which speak of the advances made by certain elements in the evolving social formation of the 1590s. Set against this, the wanderings of the various dispossessed and masterless figures in the text, however cheerful, seem all too typical of the grim realities that many endured. Moreover, when there is talk of war there is a hint of the kind of colonial competition that is to characterise succeeding centuries. Indeed, when the ‘Sea Captaines’ Stuteley and Strangwidge appear in Chapter V of Part II, they are ‘bound to sea on a gallant voyage, wherein the King hath no small venture’ during which they ‘would be seeking out the Coast of Florida’.16 Deloney certainly acknowledges the extraordinary social advance that can result from certain kinds of astute commerce. Yet he is at pains, in both his folk history of shoemaking and his realisation of the values attached to the art of shoemaking in the sixteenth century, to celebrate something more than the potential of the individual and an ideology of enterprise. Time and again in The Gentle Craft an emphasis is placed on tradition rather than change, and continuity rather than innovation. Above all, the narratives show that shoemakers prosper, and best demonstrate their noble qualities, when they act collectively as part of a specific community. This is not to say that M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 170 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 170 war and nation in the theatre of shakespeare Deloney wants to return to a lost world of medieval values, rather that he is aware of the tensions between the behaviour of individuals who recognise themselves as part of a community of values and those who step outside that community. David Morrow has noted that: Few if any Elizabethan authors have been so commonly identified with a rising entrepreneurial spirit and with the material interests of the bourgeoisie. . . . Concomitantly under-emphasized, overlooked, or treated as merely mystificatory has been Deloney’s dependence upon, and celebration of, moral economy, or communal ideology, which, much evidence suggests, made up a key component of the discursive field within which Deloney produced and others consumed his fictions.17 Furthermore, Deloney’s shoemakers are ‘ennobled’ (in the sense that they belong to the folk history of shoemaking that denotes the craftsman as ‘gentle’) by the physicality of the work itself rather than the abstract accumulation of wealth. Indeed, the sense of community is defined to a large degree by a sense of the physical fitness of its members, made strong by their work and judged against competing indices of masculinity derived from elsewhere in the wider social formation. MAKING WAR VERSUS MAKING SHOES As we have seen, the military writing of the period helped establish a polarity between military prowess, best realised in overseas campaigns (which had the added benefit of defining nationhood at home) and a non-military quietude exemplified by those men who preferred domesticity. Such ‘non-men’ were considered weak because of their preference for hearth and home, their preoccupation with their crafts and trades, and their overwhelming desire for the company of women. In this context, The Gentle Craft can be seen as a text that radically opposes the argument for military discipline and a formal army that was to gather pace over the course of the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries. In so far as the standing army became a central component of the modern state, this invites modern readers to view Deloney’s implied critique of late sixteenth-century militarism as significant indeed. The Gentle Craft is full of allusions to war and its consequences. In the story of Crispine, Crispianus and Ursula, Deloney describes the fighting in considerable detail, contrasting its brutality with the tenderness of Ursula’s love for Crispine, and comparing the situations and desires of the brother who is pressed into M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 171 Gentler Crafts 171 war abroad with the one who pursues love at home. Crispianus makes a fine soldier, of course, but the contrast between the soldier and the lover (and the soldier and the shoemaker) is established as an important theme for The Gentle Craft in general. It is a theme that gains importance as the story gathers pace and becomes more ‘historical’, leaving behind the early legends about shoemaking. In Chapter III of Part II at the end of the long story of Richard Casteler, Long Meg and ‘Gillian of the George’, war suddenly enters like a cold draught. The affectionate portrayal of these figures, so firmly rooted in their experiences of London, and with such resonant and persuasive voices, distinguishes this as one of the text’s most elaborate and successful narratives. The evocation of place and custom, and the gossip, jokes, trickery and songs, deliver this tale of lost desire and frustrated sexuality at a consistent and measured pace; and yet, as with many of narratives in The Gentle Craft, the dénouement is sudden and unexpected. In the value systems of the text overall, Gillian, like the more successful shoemakers, is reconciled to the favoured discourse of domesticity and labour. Meg, on the other hand, is brought down by domesticity’s mirror image, and the narrative ends for her with the excesses determined by war: Thus Margaret in a melancholy humor went her waies, and in short time after she forsooke Westminster, and attended on the Kings army to Bullen, and while the siege lasted, became a landresse to the Camp, and never after did she set store by her selfe, but became common to the call of every man, till such time as all youthfull delights was banished by old age, and in the end she left her life in Islington, being very penitent for all her former offences. Gillian in the end was well married, and became a very good housekeeper, living in honest name and fame till her dying day.18 War comes into these characters’ world as an indiscriminate agent of destruction. So complete and sudden is Meg’s fate that its resonance may carry over into the next chapter in which Robin and his fellows sing before the king of the siege of Bullen. In the song Bullen is seen as a ‘Lady of most high renowne’ and the king as determined to ‘obtaine’ her ‘Maiden-head’.19 The fusing of sexual violation with military prowess is not uncommon in early modern discourse and this seems like a precursor to Luke Gernon’s erotic vision of colonialism referred to at the end of Chapter 4 above. The contrast between the open but innocent desires of Meg, Gillian’s former London life and M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 172 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 172 war and nation in the theatre of shakespeare this formalised metaphor of military success as rape is complete. The fact that the account is sung before the king in a public place (and to great acclaim and reward) is an early example of how foreign wars can be turned into domestic capital. The account of the siege recalls, and possibly demystifies, that of Henry V at Harfleur, and the general sense of myth-making here casts new light on the use of the story of Agincourt in Tudor prose histories and in the theatre. Part II of The Gentle Craft ends with a more localised form of myth-making as Tom Drum, with his ‘old cogging humor’, produces a fictional account of his deeds of war in Scotland: An hundred merry feates more did he, which in this place is too much to be set downe. For afterward Tom Drum comming from the winning of Mustleborow, came to dwell with them, where he discoursed all his adventures in the wars: and according to his old cogging humor, attributed other mens deeds to himselfe, for (quoth he) it was I that killed the first Scot in the battell, yet I was content to give the honour thereof to Sir Michaell Musgrave, notwithstanding (quoth he) all men knowes that this hand of mine kild Tom Trotter, that terrible traytor, which in despite of us, kept the Castell so long, and at last as he cowardly forsooke it, and secretly sought to flye, with this blade of mine I broacht him like a roasting pigge. Moreover, Parson Ribble had never made himselfe so famous but by my meanes. These were his daily vaunts, till his lies were so manifest that hee could no longer stand in them.20 To an Elizabethan readership attuned to the phenomenon of soldiers, both genuine and counterfeit, begging in the streets of London, Deloney’s text, with its characteristic mix of humour and social comment, must have seemed highly topical in terms of this aspect of the actual consequences of war. The military prose of the period lamented the neglect of soldiers (advocating both sufficient training in readiness for war and their post-battle rehabilitation), but The Gentle Craft seems to favour codes of masculinity and domesticity that are morally superior to war in the first place. Deloney points to this opposition most clearly in the story of Master Peachey in Chapter V of Part II. Having appeared at the court with his liveried household of shoemakers, Peachey is challenged by the ‘gallant Sea Captaines’ Stuteley and Strangwidge, who resent what they perceive as a civilian undermining of the authority they claim as military men. The contest between the community of shoemakers and these two adventurers is partly about hierarchy, power and privilege. As sea captains, Stuteley and Strangwidge are symbolic of the Elizabethans’ cultivation of a heroic masculinity M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 173 Gentler Crafts 173 represented by Drake, Raleigh and the real Thomas Stukeley. David Morrow notes that: Stukeley’s celebrity endured beyond his death in 1578, in oral and written forms, including Holinshed, [George] Peele’s The Battle of Alcazar [c. 1589] and the anonymous The Famous History of Captain Thomas Stukeley. The picture of Stukeley that emerges from these representations is an ambiguous one. He is courageous and adventurous, but also wholly individualistic, a Catholic double agent whose desire in life – as he reportedly told the Queen herself – was to be a king.21 These military figures from Elizabethan England, introduced into a story of the London of Henry VI, must surely have been resonant with the potential for ambiguities, or rather contradictions, that can be detected in the contemporary military writing. The captains are professional – bound for Florida on behalf of the king, we are told – with fine reputations at court and abroad. The real Thomas Stukeley was strong, his body hardened by combat, a good leader of men who respected him, his mind attuned to the disciplines of war.22 Doubtless he could turn his hand to the science and skills that could be gleaned from contemporary manuals. Yet he also wanted to be a king – subject only to his own autonomous disciplines. In Deloney’s tale, written for a London full of soldiers and talk of war, the fact that the military character has to be enacted, and its licence continually demonstrated, reveals its artificiality – nowhere more so than when it is seen in contrast to the values of the alternative corps of the shoemakers. The gallant Stuteley and Strangwidge parade around London looking to impose their presence and impress the civilian population: in particular they are searching for Peachey and his men. Intruding into the very workplace of the shoemakers, they first suffer a firm rebuff for their arrogance and rudeness, and when the conflict descends into violence, are harried by shoemakers throughout the streets of London: Now a plague on them (quoth Stuteley) shall we never be in quiet for these quoystrels? Never were we so ferrited before, swownes we can no sooner look into the streets, but these shoomakers have us by the eares: a pox on it that ever we medled with the rascals: sblood they be as unluckie to be met, as a Hare on a jorney, or a sergeant on a Sunday morning, for ever one mischiefe or other followes it. Captaine Strangwidge (quoth he) there is no other shift but to seek their friendship, otherwise we are in danger every houre to be maimed, therefore to keep our lims sound against we go to Sea, tis best to finde meanes to quiet this grudge. M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 174 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 174 war and nation in the theatre of shakespeare Then (said Strangwidge) it were good to do so, if a man knew how: but you may be sure they will not easily be intreated, seeing we have so mightily abused them in speech. Thus they cast in their mindes divers times by what meanes they might be reconciled: and albeit they sent divers of their friends unto Master Peachie and his men, yet they would not yeeld, nor give consent to be appeased, nor to put up such wrong as they had received without further revenge: so that the Captaines were at length constrained to make sute to the Duke of Suffolk to take up the matter: who most honorably performed their request: and so the grudge ended betwixt them, to the great credit of Master Peachie, and all his men.23 The shoemakers, with their love of hearth and home, their dedication to their crafts and trades, and their initial attempts to placate the captains, may have been redolent of the ‘non-men’ scorned in the military texts as the antitheses of the ideal of masculinity associated with the soldier. Here, though, despite their ‘soft’ trade, cultivation of community and celebration of work, the shoemakers show that, under threat, they are, well, as tough as old boots. They and their craft are called ‘gentle’ because of their ethics and inherent ‘nobility’, not because they are necessarily pacifists. The episode throws into relief the idea that military individualism and its masculine codes are superior to the collective authority of the civilian craftsmen who, though initially restrained, are equal to the ascendant military discourse. As John Simons has noted, ‘the violence of Peachey’s world is seen in terms of the group rather than through the individual status that the captains afford themselves. It is the class, not the individual that is the hero’.24 PROSE TO PLAY Three elements of The Shoemaker’s Holiday are derived from The Gentle Craft. The first is the general celebration of the craft of shoemaking, including the legend of St Hugh. More directly appropriated are the stories of Crispine and Crispianus. And then there is the central narrative concerning Simon Eyre. The relationship between The Shoemaker’s Holiday and its source is a subtle and clever one. R. L. Smallwood and Stanley Wells have noted in their edition of the play that: Dekker uses the Eyre story only as the central anchor to which he attaches the two stories of the contrasted pairs of lovers, Lacy and Rose, and Ralph and Jane. The interdependence of these parts is made possible by an amalgamation of the roles of Eyre and his wife with those of the shoemaker M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 175 Gentler Crafts 175 and his wife in the Crispine–Crispianus tale, and by the intervention of a rival wooer in both love-plots, whose interference keeps the tension alive, thus postponing, and making more welcome, the happy ending.25 The act of transferring material from The Gentle Craft to the stage is one of considerable transformation: the theatre opens up the subject matter and introduces new tensions. But there is also the influence of earlier plays in the busy, competitive world of the contemporary stage. The Shoemaker’s Holiday came not long after Shakespeare’s Henry V, so raising questions of association in terms of the king at the end of the play: it is Henry VI of Eyre’s time, but simultaneously the ideologically and symbolically important Henry V of Agincourt. How happy the ending of The Shoemaker’s Holiday is is an open question, precisely because of the suggestiveness of this possible parallel. In the lovers’ story all is well, and as in The Gentle Craft, we hear of Simon Eyre’s plans to build Leadenhall, the centre for the leather trade for which Elizabethans remembered him.26 It is Shrove Tuesday, a day of celebration established for the apprentices of London as Eyre promised it would be if he ever became Lord Mayor. The king happily accepts Eyre’s invitation to share his banquet, prompting critical receptions of the play as an affirmation of a dissolving of class hierarchies. Yet the threat and consequences of warfare were woven into various episodes of The Gentle Craft, threatening individuals and, in the story of Peachey and the two captains, invading the shoemakers’ overall community. Similarly, as Smallwood and Wells remind us throughout their Introduction, The Shoemaker’s Holiday is edged by talk of war and especially its intrusions into the lives of the poor. Most notably Ralph Damport, one of Simon Eyre’s journeyman shoemakers, finds it impossible to avoid war due to his poverty and returns (genuinely) wounded from France. War wastes the lives of the poor, while the rich can avoid it: meanwhile it continues to define and propagate the reputation of kings. The concluding scene, celebratory as is, assuring the reputation of the ‘gentle craft’ of shoemaking and reaffirming for the play’s audience Eyre’s reputation as a hero of a rising class of Londoners, nonetheless reintroduces the war theme in a deliberate and provocative way. Eyre is keen to speak to Henry of Leadenhall and shroving but the king is equally anxious to speak of furthering the campaign in France: With all the old troop which there we keep in pay We will incorporate a new supply. M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 176 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 176 war and nation in the theatre of shakespeare Before one summer more pass o’er my head, France shall repent England was injurèd. (XXI.139–42) It seems that Henry might have had his eye on the company of shoemakers, who now arrive on the scene, as potentially part of his ‘new supply’ for the French wars. Indeed, Eyre describes the group as ‘all gentlemen of the Gentle Craft, true Trojans, courageous cordwainers’ (146–7), ironically using the term ‘Trojan’ in the sense of ‘work like a Trojan’ (as he does in IV.121), rather than in a martial sense. It is almost as though he is reading the king’s mind, and he hastens to return to the business of business by adding: [To the King] They are all beggars, my liege, all for themselves; and I for them all on both my kness do entreat that for the honour of poor Simon Eyre and the good of his brethren, these mad knaves, Your Grace would vouchsafe some privilege to my new Leaden Hall, that it may be lawful for us to buy and sell Leather there two days a week. (XXI.153–9) Henry agrees and the merriment continues, but one is left feeling at the very end of the play that this is but a temporary suspension of the real business of the City of London, which for Henry lies abroad in the battle against the French: Eyre, I will taste of thy banquet, and will say I have not met more pleasure on a day. Friends of the Gentle Craft, thanks to you all. Thanks, my kind Lady Mayoress, for our cheer. Come, lords, a while let’s revel it at home. When all our sports and banquetings are done, Wars must right wrongs which Frenchmen have begun. (XXI.190–6) According to Smallwood and Wells, early editions of The Gentle Craft were ‘read out of existence by the popular audience to which they were directed’ and this comment hints at the popularity of this kind of writing.27 And if The Gentle Craft was popular in its time, so was The Shoemaker’s Holiday, along with a host of other plays that offer a marked contrast with those of Shakespeare and Marlowe in terms of how they deal with war. They present alternative paradigms of peaceful human co-existence, or recommend a dependence on God’s will to bring peace, or simply satirise the M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 177 Gentler Crafts 177 military imperative that took men and women from the streets of London to die or be maimed abroad. Together, they constitute at least a refusal of the military codes and operations of the military theorists and in some ways they sought to establish opposing traditions and sets of values. It may be that it was due to the popularity of The Gentle Craft and the Shoemaker’s Holiday that Saint Crispin’s Day became a holiday for London shoemakers in the seventeenth century, as it had been in effect for their colleagues in parts of Kent.28 Although it was abrogated at the Reformation, the feast of Crispianus was restored in 1561, probably in part because of the association with Agincourt. For Elizabethan theatre audiences the king’s prediction in Shakespeare’s Henry V had been realised in a material way: This story shall the good man teach his son, And Crispin Crispian shall ne’er go by From this day to the ending of the world But we in it shall be rememberèd, We few, we happy few, we band of brothers. For he today that sheds his blood with me Shall be my brother; be he ne’er so vile, This day shall gentle his condition. And gentlemen in England now abed Shall think themselves accursed they were not here, And hold their manhoods cheap awhiles any speaks That fought with us upon Saint Crispin’s day. (IV.iii.56–67) What is interesting, and even symbolic in view of the work of Deloney and Dekker, is the duality in the meaning of 25 October. The tension at the end of Dekker’s play is reproduced in a contest for the meaning of the feast. On the one hand, it belongs to a chain of significance with links stretching back to Henry’s victory in France and all that it implies: God and nation, war and manhood – and speeches and images that, mostly due to Shakespeare, have endued to the present. Alternatively, the date conjures up the largely peaceful community of shoemakers: patriotic but not exclusive, and endlessly desirous of work, wine and each other’s company.29 That the first submerged the second set of associations for Saint Crispin does not mean that the shoemakers’ values have entirely disappeared; they remain, as it were, as an undercurrent. It is simply that Henry V, just as when he was up against the French majority at Agincourt, seemed the more inspired leader in the field of ideas. M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 178 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 178 war and nation in the theatre of shakespeare Notes 1. Paul Ive (1589), The Practise of Fortification, Wherein is shewed the manner of Fortifying all sorts of situations, London. See P. H. Kocher (1942), ‘Marlowe’s Art of War’, Studies in Philology, Vol. XXXIX, 207–25; and Nina Taunton (2001), 1590’s Drama and Militarism, Burlington, VT and Aldershot: Ashgate, pp. 58–9. 2. Thomas Smith (1600), The Arte of Gunnerie, London, sigs. Aii. R–v. 3. The sources are Petrus Perodinus (1553), Magni Tamerlanis Scytharum Imperatories Vita, London; and Thomas Fortescue (1571) The Forest, a translation of Pedro Mexia’s Silva de Varia, Leccion, London, neither of which has much to say about military discipline or strategy. 4. Alan Shepard (2002), Marlowe’s Soldiers: Rhetorics of Masculinity in the Age of the Armada, Burlington, VT and Aldershot: Ashgate, p. 37. 5. Ibid., p. 218. 6. Ibid., p. 219. 7. See Stephanie Trigg (ed.) (1990), Wynnere and Wastoure, Oxford: Oxford University Press. 8. Anon., The Alliterative Morte Arthure (1983), ed. Valerie Krisna, Lanham, MD: University Press of America; Sir Thomas Malory, Caxton’s Malory (1983), ed. James W. Spisak, 2 vols, Berkeley and Los Angeles, CA: University of California Press; Sir Thomas Malory (1998) Le Morte Darthur: The Winchester Manuscript (1998), ed. Helen Cooper, Oxford: Oxford University Press. 9. See Thomas Bestul (1974), Satire and Allergory in Wynnere and Wastoure, Lincoln, NB: University of Nebraska Press; Juliet Vale (1982), Edward III and Chivalry: Chivalric Society and its Context 1270–1350, Bury St Edmunds: Boydell Press. It was pleasing to note Nick de Somogyi (1998), Shakespeare’s Theatre of War, Burlington, VT and Aldershot: Ashgate, p. 7 remarking on the seriousness of a book dismissed by some scholars: Terry Jones (1980), Chaucer’s Knight: the Portrait of a Medieval Mercenary, 2nd rev. edition, London: Methuen. 10. The Gentle Craft was published in 1597 (Part I) and 1598 (Part II), although there is much speculation over the accuracy of these dates. Most modern editions have been based on surviving seventeenthcentury versions: a single copy of 1627 (Part I) held by the University of Sheffield and two copies of 1639 (Part II) held in the British Library and the Bodleian Library in Oxford. The provenance of an earlier edition (dated 1599 and held by the Biblioteka Gadanska ´ in Poland) is uncertain, but it is of immense interest because it includes several additional pages and indicates that the author intended to produce a third part. I have included these additions in my own edition of the text: Thomas Deloney [1597/8] (2007), The Gentle Craft, ed. Simon Barker, Burlington, Vermont and Aldershot: Ashgate. Quotations are from this edition. M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 179 Gentler Crafts 179 11. Thomas Dekker, The Shoemaker’s Holiday [1599] (1999), ed. R. L. Smallwood and Stanley Wells, Manchester: Manchester University Press. Quotations are from this edition, which is arranged into scenes but has no act divisions. 12. James E. Ruoff (1975), Macmillan’s Handbook of Elizabethan and Stuart Literature, London and Basingstoke: Macmillan, p. 107. 13. Deloney, The Gentle Craft, pp. 21–2. 14. See Ian W. Archer, Anthony Fletcher, John Guy and John Morrill (1991), The Pursuit of Stability: Social Relations in Elizabethan London, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press; David J. Morrow (2006), ‘The Entrepreneurial Spirit and “The Life of the Poore”: Social Struggle in the Prose Fictions of Thomas Deloney’, Textual Practice, 20.3, 395–418, in which he notes that Deloney co-authored ‘A Complaint of the Yeoman Weavers Against the Immigrant Weavers’, a letter sent to the French and Dutch churches in London and printed for wider distribution. Deloney was jailed in 1595 for his part in this polemic. See also Andrew Pettegree (1986), Foreign Protestant Communities in Sixteenth-century London, Oxford: Clarendon Press; and Alan Shepard and P. J. Withington (2000), Communities in Early Modern England: Networks, Place, Rhetoric, Manchester: Manchester University Press. 15. Deloney, The Gentle Craft. 16. Ibid., p. 106. 17. Morrow, ‘The Entrepreneurial Spirit and “The Life of the Poore” ’, p. 396. 18. Deloney, The Gentle Craft, p. 100. 19. Ibid. 20. Ibid., p. 144. 21. Ibid., p. 402. Strangwidge was also an historical figure, killed during an attack on the French coast. 22. See Juan E. Tazón (2003), The Life and Times of Thomas Stukeley (c. 1525–78), Burlington, VT and Aldershot: Ashgate. Tazón provides an excellent guide to diverse historical and literary accounts of the life of Stukeley, especially showing that he achieved fame and notoriety across Europe. Stukeley’s expedition to Florida is addressed in detail, although Deloney’s representation of Stukeley as Stuteley is not mentioned. 23. Deloney, The Gentle Craft, p. 109. 24. John Simons (1983), Realistic Romance: The Prose Fiction of Thomas Deloney, Contexts and Connections: Winchester Research Papers in the Humanities, Winchester: King Alfred’s College. 25. Dekker, The Shoemaker’s Holiday, p. 203. 26. Strictly speaking Eyre rebuilt Leadenhall, probably long before he became Lord Mayor. Smallwood and Wells note that the name was recorded as early as the thirteenth century and that Sir Richard Whittington gave the hall to the city in 1411. Ibid., p. 200. M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 180 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 180 war and nation in the theatre of shakespeare 27. Dekker, The Shoemaker’s Holiday, p. 203. It is fascinating to speculate on how an earlier edition of Part I of The Gentle Craft than those known to Smallwood and Wells has come to be in the Biblioteka Gadanska ´ in Poland. Someone suggested to me that it might have been carried there by a member of the touring companies of actors known to visit northern Poland in the time of Shakespeare. Or perhaps it crossed the Channel in the bag of soldier who could read of home as he went to war. 28. I am indebted to Linda Hutjens for this suggestion. See Linda A. Hutjens (2004), ‘The Renaissance Cobbler: the Significance of Shoemaker and Cobbler Characters in Elizabethan Drama’ PhD thesis, Toronto: University of Toronto. In a wide-ranging and persuasive discussion of the numerous plays of the period that feature or refer to shoemakers, Hutjens examines the status of the shoemaker and the symbolism of the trade in terms of early modern economics and social class. That her list of plays which refer to shoemakers does not include Henry V seems entirely right, despite some critics’ assertions that it should. Of special interest is her insight into the status of St Crispin’s Day as a public holiday, and the history of the term ‘gentle craft’ itself. 29. The aspirations and values of the guilds that grew from the various communities of urban workers seem somewhat different from those represented by Deloney and Dekker, or are at least more sober than those that Henry sees in the ‘mad’ Simon Eyre. M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 181 8 BEYOND HISTORY 1 Was 1603 the end of histories? There is an approach to the relationship between early modern drama and its representation of warfare that understands that, by the early years of the seventeenth century, the comparative tranquillity of England’s foreign policy under James Stuart reduced popular interest in warfare as a conspicuous subject for the stage. The argument is based partly on the fact that, with the exceptions of The Tragedy of Macbeth and All is True (Henry VIII), Shakespeare stopped writing history plays at the accession of James to the English throne. Macbeth is thus regarded as an exceptional return to the history genre because it celebrates James’s lineage, flatters his abiding interest in witchcraft and simultaneously offers a convenient vehicle for tragedy, a form that continued to absorb the playwright for a number of years. Henry VIII, opening as it does with a description of the diplomacy of the Field of the Cloth of Gold in 1520 and ending with the christening of Elizabeth in 1533, avoids depicting the wars that characterised Henry’s reign. It concentrates instead on domestic political and religious intrigue, and foregrounds Henry’s troubled relationship with Rome. Whatever the nature of the international conflict that underpins this late play, all is smoothed over by the vision of peace promised in Cranmer’s prophecy concerning the life of the infant princess. The idea that the drama of the period forsakes history is a neat formulation that almost holds true for Shakespeare’s commitment to the history play as a form. Yet in terms of militarism it does not quite work for the overall play of history as Shakespeare’s later tragedies and classical plays demonstrate; and since warfare and history are so intimate we might want to suggest that wherever the former appears, there is something to be said about the latter. Moreover, just as James’s reign did not see the end of international tension or a cessation of demands for military preparedness, Shakespeare’s contemporaries and successors continued to display a strong interest in militarism, and sometimes, by means of parody and imitation, at the expense of Shakespeare M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 182 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 182 war and nation in the theatre of shakespeare himself. Later in this chapter I shall examine some examples of the way that Shakespeare’s military world came under scrutiny in the dramatic work of some of his contemporaries and followers. But before coming to this extensive but sometimes obscure set of plays I should like to look at a selection of texts from earlier in the period which casts some doubt on both the military orthodoxy of the Tudors and the ideals espoused by their military theorists. GORBUDUC, OR THE TRAGEDY OF FERREX AND PORREX This early play by Thomas Sackville and Thomas Norton was first staged in 1561 and printed around ten years later.1 It was performed for Queen Elizabeth at Whitehall on 18 January 1562. King Gorbuduc decides to divide his kingdom between his two sons, Ferrex and Porrex. Like Lear, he does this against the advice of his courtiers and with severe consequences. Porrex invades Ferrex’s lands and kills him, only to be killed in turn by his mother in an act of revenge. The play concludes with a popular rebellion in which both Gorbuduc and his queen die, the arrival of Albany, who has seen the opportunity for material advantage in the midst of this chaos, and the outbreak of a general civil war. Early in the play Gorbuduc was warned by one of his counsellors against dividing up the kingdom in the following terms: Within one land one single rule is best: Divided reigns do make divided hearts, But peace preserves the country and the prince. Such is in man the greedy mind to reign, So great is his desire to climb aloft, In worldly stage the stateliest parts to bear, That faith and justice and all kindly love, Do yield unto desire of sovereignty, Where egal state doth raise an egal hope To win the thing that either would attain. Your grace remb’reth how in passed years The mighty Brute, first prince of all this land, Possessed the same and ruled it well in one; He, thinking that the compass did suffice For his three sons three kingdoms eke to make, Cut it in three, as you would now in twain. But how much British blood hath since been spilt To join again the sundered unity! What princes slain before their timely hour! M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 183 Beyond History 183 What waste of towns and people in the land! What treasons heaped on murders and on spoils! Whose just revenge even yet is scarcely ceased; Ruthful remembrance is yet raw in mind. The gods forbid the like to chance again. (I.ii.259–82) Eubulus’ advice raises a number of issues. Clearly a warning against the evils of civil conflict, the speech invites the audience to consider the virtues of peace and unity in contrast with the images of a war that will spread throughout the land. Yet peace is itself unstable since it exists, even when the state is unified, only in spite of the seemingly natural ambition of warlike men who will always seek to gain sovereignty. Moreover, the present peace of the state was itself forged out of war after Brute’s earlier mistake. The sense of a cycle of disorder is profound and can be registered against the play’s Senecan overtones, which imply a parallel between acts of revenge and issues of war. The role of heaven, forbidding an action that might cause war, is demoted here to somewhere far below the actions of humans, a hierarchy that may have been unsettling for an audience that included a monarch who claimed divine authority for her own proclamations of peace and war. The play is caught up in its generic provenance in the classics and the Morality Play tradition. Gorbuduc’s advisers have emblematic names: ‘Eubulus’ (‘wise counsellor’) and ‘Philander’ (‘friend to man’), for example. The episodic structure, dumb shows and use of a Chorus combine to make it entirely reminiscent of earlier religious drama. Yet it also sets the scene for an anthropocentric attitude to the business of war and state authority, one that will steadily permeate the drama that is to come. Instability in the theological framework that governs the acquisition and use of sovereign power is heightened at the point where Ferrex is urged by Hermon to take up arms against his brother. An account of war and kingship is presented that offers the audience the unsettling notion that the gods sanction in kings what they forbid in ordinary citizens. The pursuit of mortal ambition and aspirations to sovereignty may be continued through war as long as that sovereignty, and the licence that goes with it, are finally secured by those who seek them. In effect, the audience is presented with a heaven (albeit a pre-Christian one in the early part of the play) which both forbids and sanctions war at the same time: The gods do bear and well allow in kings The things that they abhor in rascal routs. M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 184 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 184 war and nation in the theatre of shakespeare When kings on slender quarrels run to wars, And then in cruel and unkindly wise Command thefts, rapes, murders of innocents, The spoil of towns, ruins of mighty realms; Think you such princes do suppose themselves Subject to laws of kind and fear of gods? Murders and violent thefts in private men Are heinous crimes and full of foul reproach; Yet none offence, but decked with glorious name Of noble conquests in the name of kings. (II.i.144–55) This advice, although considered wicked in the context of the play, nonetheless sets out a position on the authority of kingship that will sit uneasily beside the claims that are to be made about the issue in the military theory that is beginning to emerge during this period. The vision of a divine sanctioning of warfare is exactly that which will be allowed by those authors who derived their command of the subject from their selective readings of the Bible. War can be justified because kings are especially empowered by divine authority. At the same time kings are not entirely subject to the laws of gods, and in this instance, tend towards the kinds of military activity (‘thefts, rapes, murders of innocents’) that Shakespeare is later to associate with the marauding Henry V at Harfleur. Gorbuduc was performed several years before the opening of the public theatres and thus used the staging devices of the Morality Play with its visual balancing of good and evil exempla of human behaviour. Good figures contend with figures of evil, working their influence on central, often equally emblematic figures. This helps increase an effect that suggests that no single discourse is privileged above a range of alternatives and there is certainly very little to offer the audience in the form of a resolution of the conflicting positions about warfare. King Gorbuduc, paradoxically a kind of royal Everyman, defies the empirical evidence of what can happen when a kingdom is divided as it was under the historical Brute. His sons debate with their followers the status of their ‘name’, implying that whoever may be the more worthy prince, both are superior in status to the gods to whom they pay lip-service at best. And the Chorus represents a vision of a state given over to the dictates of secular ambition expressed through martial supremacy: The lust of kingdom knows no sacred faith, No rule of reason, no regard of right, M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 185 Beyond History 185 No kindly love, no fear of heaven’s wrath; But with contempt of gods and man’s despite, Though bloody slaughter doth prepare the ways To fatal sceptre and accursed reign. (III.i.170–5) Towards the end of the play, with the old king murdered by the people and both his sons dead, Eubulus gives a long description of the chaos imagined by the Chorus. Internal division has made Britain vulnerable, leaving it open to the threat of invasion from abroad: Lo, Britains realm is left an open prey, A present spoil by conquest to ensue. Who seeth not now how many rising minds Do feed their thoughts with hope to reach a realm? And who will not by force attempt to win So great a gain, that hope persuades to have? (V.ii.191–6) Gorbuduc promotes the ideal of a state unified under a single monarch since the splitting of the realm is bound to lead to the apocalyptic description of civil strife described in Eubulus’ final speech. Moreover, the devolution of power to a parliament is also considered a waste of time, or even dangerous, since: Alas, in parliament what hope can be, When is of parliament no hope at all. (V.ii.223–4) That a single earthly authority should take precedence over powersharing would seem a theme fit for a relatively new queen sitting in an audience all too familiar with the wounds caused by civil war in the past. Yet two issues are set out in Gorbuduc that are to prove contentious in both the body of drama that is to come and the military theory that will accompany it. The first is that of the divine agency around which the play ends with a curious kind of ‘turn’. The ‘gods’ who have previously been shown to lack the power to intervene, their authority claimed by both sides in a dispute (or simply defied altogether), are replaced by a single Christian entity to which a rather plaintive appeal is made in the play’s closing moments: While yet the prince did live whose name and power By lawful summons and authority Might make a parliament to be of force And might have set the state in quiet stay. M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 186 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 186 war and nation in the theatre of shakespeare But now, O happy man whom speedy death Deprives of life, ne is enforced to see These hugy mischiefs and these miseries, These civil wars, these murders, and these wrongs Of justice. Yet must God in fine restore This noble crown unto the lawful heir; For right will always live and rise at length, But wrongs can never take deep root to last. (V.ii.268–79) In view of what has transpired this wished-for outcome seems a little weak. The whole play has seen the unreliability of the gods with respect to human ambition, various interpretations of sovereignty and the cyclical nature of war and revenge. The play may be an affirmation of the agency of the true Christian God summoned to replace the pagan deities, but this seems to stretch its theology somewhat. Rather, the audience is left relying on the forlorn word ‘must’ in line 276: God will provide, eventually. It is another exit strategy. Gorbuduc can be viewed as establishing an agenda of issues for the ideas about militarism, God and the state which will be discussed in the prose and drama that is to follow. At this point the play raises some doubts about the certainty of God’s presence and the clarity of Christian doctrine in these matters. Those who remain at the end of the play hope for and await divine guidance, yet there is little to suggest that the Christian God is going to be any less protean than his pagan predecessors. The second issue concerns notions of the spectacle of power and its ability to usurp due political process. Ferrex and Porrex are obsessed with their reputations and status and both finally demonstrate this by recourse to violence. It is a play that works through in microcosm some of the larger debates that were to be conducted later in the pages of military theory and on the stages of the later Elizabethan and early Stuart theatres. This is a play about cruelty and ambition set in a distant and pagan court. Yet its focus upon civil war, for Elizabethan audiences, may have provided an immediacy that was partly fuelled by the tendency of the Tudors to use foreign campaigns as unifying motifs at home: Henry and France; Henry and Scotland; Elizabeth and Spain; Elizabeth and Ireland. Certainly, the emerging military theorists’ recommendations to a king such as Gorbuduc would have been to instigate a foreign war that would override internal dissent and disunity. This strategy is added to the agenda that is to be worked through in a sequence of subsequent plays. M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 187 Beyond History 187 CAMBISES, KING OF PERSIA Like Gorbuduc, Thomas Preston’s tragedy dates from around 1561, although the earliest extant edition is from 1584.2 If the military texts are going to recommend foreign war as a means by which to promote internal unity, then this play dramatises the result of such a policy. King Cambises decides to wage war against Egypt in order to enhance his reputation at home in Persia. His advisers agree with the plan, noting that the name, reputation and power of Persia will all be validated by victory. Moreover, the war will bring the monarchy closer to heavenly virtue and reinforce a sense of justice. One counsellor reflects on this: Through Maris aid the conquest wun, then deed of hapy prince Shall pearce the skies unto the throne of the supernal seat, And merit there a just reward of Jupiter the Great. But then your Grace must not turne backe from this pretenced will; For to proceed in vertuous life imploy indevour stil; Extinguish vice, and in that cup to drinke have no delight; In judgement you do office beare, which have the skil in lawes; We thinke that you accordingly by justice wil deale, That for offence none shal have cause, of wrong you to appeale. (28–36) For the period of his absence at the wars Cambises appoints one of his judges, Sisamnes, as acting governor and the play develops around this figure’s gradual corruption under the influence of a Vice figure named Ambidexter. Upon his return, Cambises learns of his deputy’s misdemeanours and has him arrested, tried and executed, making a point of gratuitously summoning Sisamnes’ son to witness his father’s death. The play continues with Cambises summoning the figures Cruelty and Murder to eliminate his brother, and he then executes his own fiancée for objecting to this act. Cambises, unlike Gorbuduc, has an active and very visible deity in the form of Divine Justice who eventually intervenes, making Cambises stab himself accidentally with his own sword.3 The play is characterised by its fulsome reflections on war and monarchy. On the one hand, Cambises is the very model of the military theorists’ idea of strategy in the sense that he follows their recommendations in pursuing a foreign campaign in order to bolster his domestic reputation and strengthen the state. That this fails so miserably not only undermines the strategy itself, but also opens up a further dimension. It is revealed that although Ambidexter encourages Sisamnes in his venality, the M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 188 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 188 war and nation in the theatre of shakespeare judge had actually been waiting for the king to depart in order explore the possibilities for self-promotion. Furthermore, Cambises is himself corrupted by the experience of war, departing as a just if somewhat conceited sovereign, but returning to wreak havoc on the innocent. In a piece that belongs very clearly to the later stages of the Morality tradition, its principal Vice assumes a persona of warlike subjectivity that parodies the more serious militarist strands of discussion in the play. Ambidexter mimics Cambises’ rhetoric of militarised absolutism, tries to rally the ordinary soldiers Huf, Ruf and Snuf (the Baldoph, Pistol and Nim of this play), and declares himself a reluctant but inspired and manly soldier: Stand away, stand away, for the passion of God! Harnessed I am, prepared to the field; I would have been content at home to bod, But I am sent forth with my speare and shield. I am appointed to fight against a snaile, And Wilken Wren the ancient shall beare; I dout but against him to prevaile, – To be a man my deeds shall declare; If I overcome him, then a butter-fly takes his part. But you shall see me overthrow him with a fart. (126–35) These early plays offered their audiences an opportunity to observe the contradictions and discontinuities in the relationship between monarchical government and military endeavour in a mixture of serious critique and parody. The military theorists, whose work began to be published in considerable volumes in the 1580s, may have been responding in part to what was seen on the stage. The correspondence between the issues discussed in their prose and those dramatised in the developing public theatres is certainly close enough to suggest such a dialectical relationship. A LOOKING GLASS FOR LONDON AND ENGLAND An example of such correspondence comes in another play from the 1580s (but published in 1594), which examines the general moral decay in England described by the military theorists. In Thomas Lodge and Robert Greene’s A Looking Glass for London and England the city and the country must take up an active stance against the domestic ills which threaten to leave the state vulnerable to foreign invasion.4 The figure of Jonas states: M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 189 Beyond History 189 O London, maiden of the mistress isle, Wrapped in the folds and swathing clouts of shame, In thee more sins than Ninevah contains: Contempt of God, despite of reverend age, Neglect of law, desire to wrong the poor, Corruption, whoredom, drunkenness, and pride. (V.v.75–80) Lodge and Greene do not clearly set out the remedy for these ills, but the play is a good starting place for an examination of the kinds of solution offered in the military prose for such behaviour, but transferred, and given a very different treatment, in the theatre. The complaints are those that could be found in a range of pamphlets, books and ballads: irreligious behaviour, a lack of respect for the old and widespread illegality – and the usual range of sinful submission to worldly appetites. These kinds of complaint sometimes mirror those found in military theory with regard to a softening of men’s behaviour. Lack of discipline is established as both the cause and effect of a preoccupation with love and sex, and the decorum that this entails: the ‘merry meetings’ that Richard of Gloucester objected to so fulsomely. As we have seen, true virility, argue the theorists, lay with war rather than women. CAMPASPE John Lyly’s Campaspe of 1584 is a love story set in the court of Alexander the Great, where the influence of love and ‘womanly niceness’ has begun to undermine the usual martial atmosphere.5 Alexander, whose military prowess, past campaigns and military discipline have made him the most powerful soldier in the world, finds himself competing for the attention of Campaspe with a languid painter, Appelles, who represents all those values disdained by the military theorists. In the following quotation, Alexander’s power and authority are affirmed by his courtier, Hephestion, who still regards Alexander as equal to the task of subduing neighbouring states, despite the distractions on the home front: Occasion cannot want if will doe not. Behold all Persia swelling in the pride of their owne power, the Scythians carelesse what courage or fortune can do, the Eygptians dreaming in the soothsayings of their aurgues and gaping over the smoake of their beasts intralls. All these, Alexander, are to be subdued, if that world be not slipped out of your head which you have sworne to conquer with that hand.6 M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 190 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 190 war and nation in the theatre of shakespeare Alexander’s reluctance to go to war is due to his intense love for Campaspe but also, the text implies, to his quiet assimilation of some of the values of the intrusive Apelles. Towards the end of the play, Alexander concedes victory in love to Apelles, and leaves to fight the Persians. Superficially, this seems like a dramatisation of the argument found in the military prose. Alexander had only temporarily lost ‘himself’, becoming for a while more like Shakespeare’s Prince Harry than a military commander from Antiquity, but as with Harry, all is well in the end, as war restores men to an appropriate register of masculinity and virtue. In the theatre though, unlike in the military prose, the alternatives to war, such as love, passivity and intellectual pursuit (and painting), are contrasted with the stringencies of the field of battle. Two regimes of masculinity collide in the play, leaving the audience to contrast the warlike excesses of Alexander with the songs, love-making, philosophising and tranquillity of Apelles. By comparison with the sanitised descriptions of war in the military texts, where soldiers operate in stylised formations to the beat of the drum and in the spirit of Saint George, Campaspe offers visions of war that are far less sanitised. As Hephestion knew he still could be, Alexander is ruthless in his work. He comes across as a slightly absurd figure, while Apelles ‘matures’ to reach the status of the soldier himself, a development that is rather disturbing to those around him. This curious turn of events gives some legitimacy to the pro-war arguments of the theorists (and Hephestion) but for an audience at least it shows that the mantle of militarism can be assumed at will if necessary, and is far from ‘natural’. In the end the play seemed to offer little fixed point of view in making such a contrast between the two versions of masculinity. There is space and a need for both, it seems to invite us to think. Yet the disciplined anti-sentimentality and single viewpoint on the issue of masculinity promoted by the theorists seem to be undermined, left indeed for Richard of Gloucester in the play Shakespeare was shortly to write. THE THREE LORDS AND THREE LADIES OF LONDON A number of plays produced around the crisis year of 1588 resist the urgency found in the contemporary military theory in terms of their constant and mutual demands for the establishment of a force to defend England and undertake prestigious foreign campaigns. In Robert Wilson’s The Three Lords and Three Ladies of London of M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 191 Beyond History 191 1588 London is personified as a ‘A Lady very richly attired . . . having two Angels before her, with bight rapiers in their hands’. In the preface, London addresses the audience: Lo, gentles, thus the Lord doth London guard, Not for my sake but for his own delight; For all in vain the sentinels watch and war, Now may my foes in vain both spurn and spite, My foes, I mean, that London represent, Guarded from heaven by angels excellent. This blessing is not my sole benefit: All England is, and so preserv’d hath been, Not by man’s strength, his policy and wit, But by a power and Providence unseen; Even for the love wherewith God loves our Queen, In whom, for whom, by whom we do possess More grace, more good, than London can express.7 The image, linking peace to God’s willingness to defend Elizabeth, resists ‘man’s strength, his policy or wit’, and makes military preparedness redundant. Celebrating the magnificence of the Crown, the play suggests that a ‘natural’ position for England is to rely on divine protection rather than armed preparedness. Whilst this seems an absurd position, it corresponds to a degree with the mythology that began to emerge from the moment of the defeat of the Armada that Drake’s success could be attributed to God’s intervention and protection. THE BATTLE OF ALCAZAR This idea of divine protection as opposed to military preparedness is geographically extended in George Peele’s The Battle of Alcazar, which according to its editor, Walter Greg, was probably written in 1588, although it was not printed until 1594.8 The play examines the military adventures of Thomas Stukeley, the anachronistically placed Stuteley of The Gentle Craft who was so decisively dealt with by the shoemakers prior to his voyage to Florida on behalf of Henry VI. As Juan Tazón has noted, Stukeley had long featured in a number of Elizabethan ballads and was later to appear in The Famous Historye of the Life and Death of Captaine Thomas Stukeley (printed in 1605, but performed in 1596), for which ‘no author has yet been convincingly identified’.9 Along with the ballads, Peele’s main source, M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 192 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 192 war and nation in the theatre of shakespeare John Poleman’s The Second Part of the Booke of Battailes, published nine years after the historical Stukeley’s death, had helped secure Stukeley’s reputation. This was a publication tellingly written ‘for the profit of those that practise armes, and for the pleasure of such as love to be harmlesse hearers of bloudie broiles’.10 In The Battle of Alcazar Stukeley is shown to be a military man capable of operating with an autonomy that prefigures that of Caius Martius in Shakespeare’s Coriolanus. Here the Captain is on his way to Ireland, on a mission backed by the Pope and aimed at undermining Elizabeth’s claim to that country. Having landed at Lisbon he explains to the authorities his own independence and that of his men: Lord Governor of Lisbourne understand, As we are Englishmen, so are we men, And I am Stukley so resolute in all, To follow rule, honor and Emperie, Not to be bent so strictly to the place Wherein at first I blew the fire of life But that I may at libertie make choise Of all the continents that bounds the world. (451–8) The Portuguese are intent on a war against the Moslems in Africa, but in persuading Stukeley to join this, instead of continuing the expedition to Ireland, they explain that such an attempted violation of Elizabeth’s sovereignty would be entirely fruitless. Britain and Ireland, Stukeley is told firmly, enjoy defences that are capable of thwarting any mere military offence and are defined by a combination of God’s hand, natural barriers against invasion and allied agencies from classical mythology: To invade the Iland were her highnes raignes, Twere all in vaine, for heavens and destinies Attend and wait upon her Majestie, Sacred, imperiall, and holy is her seate, Shining with wisdome, love and mightines. Nature that everie thing imperfect made, Fortune that never yet was constant found, Time that defaceth everie golden shew, Dare not decay, remove or be impure, Both nature, time and fortune all agree, To blesse and serve her roiall majestie, The wallowing Ocean hems her round about, Whose raging flouds do swallow up her foes, M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 193 Beyond History 193 And on the rockes their ships in peeces split, And even in Spaine where all the traitors dance, And plaie themselves upon a sunny daie, Securely guard the west part of her Isle, The South the narrow Britaine sea begirts, Where Veptune sits in triumph, to direct Their course to hell that aime at her disgrace, The Germaine seas alongst the East do run, Where Nenus banquets all her water Nymphs, That with her beautie glansing on the waves, Distaines the checke of faire Prosperina, Advise thee then proud Stukely ere thou passe, To wrong the wonder of the highest God, Sith danger, death and hell doth follow thee, Thee and them all that seeke to danger her. (732–59) In terms of a perceived autonomy of the military subject, this play and The Famous Historye, are of immense interest. Stukeley becomes detached from any real sense of cause, offering his services where he likes, even to Spain itself. He loses the loyalty of his men and the backing of the Church, but ends up revealing himself ‘for the last time as a true soldier, faithful to the end to his role as a rash leader’.11 Stukeley epitomises the potential detachment of the soldier, especially as a leader, but set against the historically ‘God-given’ victory over the Spanish Armada, it radically undermines the accelerating demands of the military theorists for the creation of yet more and more such militarised subjects. Clearly the idea that a combination of natural defences and God’s special protection of Elizabeth’s realms was a fanciful one, but its ideological force as a counterweight to the urgency of the theorists’ arguments makes these kinds of plays very suggestive indeed. THE WOUNDS OF CIVIL WAR Thomas Lodge’s play, another from the year of the Armada, features a Roman soldier, Sylla, who embodies many of the virtues of the classical soldier referred to by the military theorists:12 he is disciplined, intelligent, effective and successful. His foreign campaigns have increased the reputation and power of Rome abroad; his army is feared, but seen as a model by neighbouring states; and his victories are always decisive and conducted according to the laws of war. In M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 194 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 194 war and nation in the theatre of shakespeare theory, his person, his army and his strategies read like extracts from the military prose. Yet instead of increasing the internal security of Rome, Sylla’s foreign campaigns have led to civil war, and opposing factions have competed for power during his absence abroad. Confronting his domestic enemies and erstwhile friends he says: Ungrateful men! Whilst I with tedious pain In Asia seal’d my duty with my blood, Making the Daranians faint for fear, Spreading my colours in Galatia, Dipping my sword in the Enetians’ blood, And foraging the fields of Phocida, You called my foe from exile with his friends; You did proclaim me traitor here in Rome; You raz’d my house, you did defame my friends. But, brawling wolves, you cannot bite the moon, For Sylla lives, so forward to revenge, And woe to those that sought to do me wrong.13 The play has something of the tone of Coriolanus and although it lacks Shakespeare’s subtlety and control, it demonstrates once again the autonomy of the militarised leader. Sylla, however, is presented much more carefully as a product of military discipline than Caius Martius as he moves from seeing himself as a representative of the state to an individualised warrior emphasising, as he does here, his personal sacrifice. He dwells on the spilling of his own blood in the conduct of his duty and assures that blood will be spilt at home in revenge for his betrayal. The Wounds of Civil War avoids the sense of tragedy that pervades Coriolanus and thus objectifies its relationship with contemporary military texts. By comparison with the practicalities of war and the politics of a militarised state observed in this play, the military theory seems at best an abstraction, at worst to recommend a policy that will potentially create forces in the state that will destroy it. The ‘tragedy’ of the Wounds of Civil War is not vested in its protagonist but in the flawed structures of a political system that cannot tolerate what it has created. THE DOWNFALL OF ROBERT, EARLE OF HUNTINGTON The setting of Lodge’s play may seem remote to those thinking about military affairs at the turn of the century. However, the military writers employed examples from the classical world to illustrate their arguments as frequently as the dramatists used them to make those M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 195 Beyond History 195 same arguments seem more complicated and less assured. Anthony Munday’s The Downfall of Robert, Earl of Huntington would have drawn the matter of the benefits of foreign campaigns into an English context. Munday was considerably attuned to matters of war and reputation, having attempted in an earlier play to rescue the image of Sir John Oldcastle from associations with Shakespeare’s Falstaff.14 In the play about the Earl of Huntington, from around 1601, the body of the state is torn apart by the absence of its king in spite of the fact that Richard I is busy enhancing England’s international status with his engagement in the Crusades. John is an evil figure in the play, as he had remained in the folklore that in part informs it, yet it nonetheless dramatises a situation from English history that is very much like that of Sylla’s. The play attacks the simple equation offered in the military writing that a powerful military leader ensures the security and discipline of the state by waging foreign wars. As John notes: Richard is king, In Cyprus, Acon, Actes, and rich Palestime: To get those kingdoms England lent him men, And many a million of her substance spent, The very entrails of her wombe was rent.15 The king’s crusades produce a new status for England, and in the play the poor willingly make sacrifices in order to finance Richard’s adventures, yet the absence of the king allows the internal evil and corruption embodied in the figure of John to come to the fore. The play invites the audience to consider that the idea of a strong military leader with constant foreign disputes is a contradictory one. Clearly the solution would be for a monarch to have a foreign campaign but not to have to go on it in person. Yet the military theorists celebrated those leaders in the past, like Henry V, who had actively participated in battles, thus redeeming monarchs who might otherwise be flawed, such as Richard III. The story the theorists told was that only battle itself could ennoble individual soldiers or monarchs. Even if an exception could be made for Elizabeth herself, the field of battle remained the proving ground. SOLIMAN AND PERSEDA Some plays from the period simply illuminate what the military texts keep dark about those fields of battle. As has been noted, the theorists, not unlike some strategists in the contemporary world, rarely discuss the brutalities of combat. If such matters were raised in the M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 196 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 196 war and nation in the theatre of shakespeare sixteenth century it is with an assertion of the moral standing of the soldier that is the proof of his sacrifice, or a quite literal sanitising of the situation by suggesting that the wounded should be treated by surgeons in the field.16 Often the theorists simply stylise killing. Thomas Kyd is best known for The Spanish Tragedy (c. 1585), a play in which the protagonist, Hieronimo, experiences agonies of injustice that proceed from anti-chivalric behaviour on the battlefield.17 In Soliman and Perseda (1591), however, Kyd distils the business of war, showing that the only victor in any battle is Death.18 The play is an elaboration of the play-within-the-play that features in The Spanish Tragedy. Debating the outcome of a complex and bloody conflict between Christian and Moslem, Death, Fortune and Love assess their comparative strengths and weaknesses in terms of their influence on human activity. Death weighs his own part and, rightly in the context of the play, proclaims victory: By wasting all I conquer all the world: And now, to end our difference at last, In this last act note but the deeds of Death. Where is Erastus now, but in my triumph? Where are the murtherers, but in my triumph? Where’s judge and witness, but in my triumph? Where’s false Lucina, but in my triumph? Where’s Basilisco, but in my triumph? Where’s faithful Piston, but in my triumph? Where’s valiant Brusor, but in my triumph? Their loves and fortune ended with their lives, And they must wait upon the car of death. Pack, Love and Fortune! Play in comedies: For powerful death best fitteth tragedies.19 In an echo of the compromise that Henry VIII tried to extract from John Colet, Kyd goes on to assert that Death will triumph over all those who participate in wars, except those who are friends of Elizabeth. Despite this caveat, the play is a graphic representation of the outcome of war which complements The Spanish Tragedy itself and stands in stark opposition to the energies of the theorists of the time, who became increasingly bellicose in the years following the Armada. THE LIFE AND DEATH OF JACK STRAW One focus of the theorists’ contempt in the last decade of the sixteenth century was their perception that the people most likely to be called M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 197 Beyond History 197 on to participate in the military organisations thought necessary to prepare for war were simply unwilling to do so. As we have seen, there was considerable hostility to the systems of militia or trained bands, and such institutionalisation of militarism could actually lead to civil unrest. In addition, in many areas of the social formation there was a reluctance to raise the taxation involved in supporting such institutions. All this put into relief the idealised notions of discipline, professionalism and moral righteousness espoused by the military writers. The theatre cannot have helped the situation for such enthusiasts. The anonymous play The Life and Death of Jack Straw was first staged during the closing years of the sixteenth century.20 It is of particular relevance to issues of commitment and refusal in terms of the state’s military ambitions since it dramatises a popular rebellion that had originated in part with the unwillingness of the people to support a monarch’s war with France. The real Jack Straw’s late fourteenth-century revolt was concerned with a range of issues that have been identified with a growing class consciousness defined as ‘communism’ by one mid-twentieth-century mainstream historian: but the emphasis in the play is on a poll tax that will underwrite the war.21 Despite parliamentary approval for the campaign, payment from all quarters is slow in arriving. The Lord Treasurer discusses the situation with the Archbishop: And yet, Lord Archbishop, your grace doth know That, since the latest time of parliament, Wherein this task was granted to the King By general consent of either house, To help his wars, which he intends to France, For wreak and just recovery of his right, How slow their payment is in every place, That better a king not to command at all, Than be beholding to ungrateful minds. ARCHBISHOP: Lord Treasurer, it seemeth strange to me, That, being won with reason and regard Of true-succeeding prince, the common sort Should be so slack to give, or grudge the gift That is to be employed for their behoof. Hard and unnatural be the thoughts of theirs That suck the milk, and will not help the well.22 The centrality of the war to the state is profound (‘mother’s milk’) and the way that war is represented as fought on behalf of everyone is M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 198 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 198 war and nation in the theatre of shakespeare allied here to notions of the just war and the ‘naturalness’ of consent. The play further dramatises a conflict between two forms of authority over the issue of conflict itself. On the one hand, the king hopes to sway the rebels to his cause by taking a sympathetic position: My lord, I hope we shall not need to fear To meet those men, that thus do threaten us. We will, my lord to-morrow meet with them, And hear, my lord, what ’tis that they demand.23 The purpose here is, as it were, to put into practice something of the arguments of the Elizabeth military theorists. The people are to become ‘knowing’ with respect to the war and its justification. On the other hand, the king adopts this approach against the counsel of his advisers who would prefer to see direct and merciless punishment. The problem in the reign of the real Richard II was that he had insufficient troops known to be loyal enough to subdue the ‘common sort’. This understandably is not discussed in the play, yet still the focus shifts to an alternative approach, the best resort of an absolute monarch without a reliable army, a dazzling image of Divine Right: BISHOP: Your grace herein is very well advised, With resolution fitting your degree, Your grace must show yourself to be a king And rule like God’s vicegerent here on earth. The looks of kings so lend both life and death, And when a king doth set down his decree, His sentence should be irrevocable.24 Neither approach, hard or soft, is taken to a real conclusion. The king ends up compromising and decides to execute the ringleaders, including the eponymous Jack Straw, but offers the majority of the rebels clemency. What emerges from the play is a very clear contest over the kinds of power available to an absolute monarch; but more importantly it demonstrates the centrality of military concerns (and taxation) to ideas of national identity and popular consent. THE KNIGHT OF THE BURNING PESTLE Such matters of high policy were paramount to the military theorists, but they were also concerned with the detail of military organisation as it was regularly played out in the musters and gatherings of trained bands in London and elsewhere. These displays, associated in London M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 199 Beyond History 199 with specific locations such as Mile End, drew crowds of onlookers and provided evidence for the theorists of the paucity of any effective military preparedness. Their lament over the poor quality and undisciplined behaviour of those involved was entirely justified. Moreover, had they visited the theatre they might have felt that their concerns were being parodied in a number of contemporary plays. If, like so many across the centuries, they had looked to derive from Shakespeare at least a degree of comfort in the rhetoric of military figures such as Henry V or Julius Caesar, they may well have seen them parodied as well. First performed in 1608 and published in 1613, Francis Beaumont’s The Knight of the Burning Pestle depends in part for its humour on its audiences’ knowledge of both military exercises and Shakespeare’s plays.25 It belongs to the world of The Gentle Craft and The Shoemaker’s Holiday, with its inversion of the chivalric romance, and mocking celebration of artisan culture. There is also a strong element derived from Don Quixote, thought to have circulated in one form or another before the first official English translation of 1612. The Knight of the Burning Pestle was apparently rejected by audiences at the Blackfriars but was more successful in the Caroline period, and received well by an appreciative audience at the private Cockpit theatre. Whatever interpretation one places on its depiction of social class, the play nonetheless depends for its appeal on its relationship to militarism and militarism’s London apparatus. A central figure is Rafe, a grocer’s apprentice who, inspired by reading of chivalry in Palmerin of England, becomes the Knight of the Burning Pestle. He embarks on a series of adventures in which various rather ordinary locations are imagined as fantastic settings for romantic encounters and demonstrations of chivalric prowess. In what might seem a subversive way, the play reaches its conclusion by blending these motifs of chivalry with a parody of the musters of soldiers. This fusion of the old and the new precisely parallels the ideological method of the military texts that were available for purchase not far from some of the locations mentioned in the play. The end of the play includes a complex set of references to a range of recent plays by a number of playwrights, including The Spanish Tragedy, but when Rafe addresses his gathering of mustered ‘soldiers’, the references are clearly to Shakespeare: ’Tis a fault, my friend: put it in again. You want a nose, and you a stone. Sergeant, take a note on’t, for I mean to stop it in the pay. Remove, and march! Soft and fair, gentlemen, soft and fair! Double your files! As you M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 200 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 200 war and nation in the theatre of shakespeare were! Faces about! Now, you with the sodden face, keep it there! Look to your match, sirrah; it will be in your fellow’s flask anon! So, make a crescent now! Advance your pikes! Stand and give ear! Gentlemen, countrymen, friends, and my fellow soldiers, I have brought you this day from the shops of security and the counters of content to measure out in these furious fields honour by the ell and prowess by the pound. Let it not, O, let it not, I say, be told hereafter the noble issue of this city fainted; but bear yourselves in this fair action like men, valiant men and free men! Fear not the face of the enemy nor the noise of the guns; for believe me, brethren, the rude rumbling of a brewer’s car is far more terrible, of which you have daily experience; neither let the stink of powder offend you since a more valiant stink is nightly with you. To a resolved mind, his home is everywhere: I speak not this to take away the hope of your return, for you shall see (I do not doubt it), and that very shortly, your loving wives again and your sweet children, whose care doth bear you company in baskets. Remember then, whose cause you have in hand and, like a sort of trueborn scavengers, scour me this famous realm of enemies. I have no more to say but this: stand to your tacklings, lads, and show to the world you can as well brandish a sword as shake an apron. Saint George, and on, my hearts. (V.ii.44–76) The speech begins by parodying the military drill of London’s trained bands and then proceeds to borrow from Shakespeare’s Julius Caesar: ‘Gentlemen, countrymen, friends’. What follows seems to mimic the high military rhetoric of Henry V, turned on its head with the odd obscene reference: ‘Let it not, O, let it not, I say, be told hereafter . . .’ Towards the end, however, the speech turns on elements of Richard III’s speech before Bosworth. Richard raised the issue of his soldiers’ wives and denounced Richmond’s forces in the kinds of terms that Rafe ironically reserves for his own men. Finally, there is Saint George. Clearly there is fun here at the expense of Shakespeare, but there is also a serious point about the formulaic nature of the heroic and inspiring leader’s speech. The theatre of the later Jacobean and Caroline periods continued to feature soldiers and issues of war. With some exceptions, however, the principal theme was that of the boastful soldier, parodied for the entertainment of the more socially elevated audiences of the private theatres. Philosophical issues to do with the just war and the relationship between the military leader and his troops tended to retreat a little, but the politics of soldiering were to the fore. Soldiers in the work of Philip Massinger in particular are absurd figures who dwell on past campaigns but often infect the civilian societies into which M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 201 Beyond History 201 they have retired. The stereotype appears in a number of his plays including The Duke of Milan (1623), The Bondman (1624) and The Roman Actor (1629). The Bondman proved controversial as it parodied the king’s favourite, George Villiers, for his military adventures abroad. Alternatively, soldiers returning from war are likely to become involved in intrigue and revenge, as Melantius does in Beaumont and Fletcher’s The Maid’s Tragedy (1611) or in various works from the 1630s by James Shirley. Plays and fragments of plays from the years following the closure of the theatres show that the unfolding events inspired more plays about war, such as Il Pastor Fido and a kind of interlude by ‘Mercurius Pragmaticus’ called The Leveller’s Levelled, both from around 1647. THE CHRONICLE HISTORY OF PERKIN WARBECK AND THE MARTYR’D SOULDIER Two further Caroline plays are worth considering for their unusual attitudes to war. John Ford’s Perkin Warbeck dealt with Henry VII’s relations with Scotland, which were unsettled by James IV’s support for the pretender to the throne.26 James is presented in the play as a dogmatic defender of Divine Right and a purveyor of arbitrary justice. A contrast is made with Henry VII, who reluctantly recognises that the disputes with Scotland may result in war. Clearly the play flatters one king and traduces the other, but Henry’s utterances on warfare are extremely ambivalent. Once again the old spirit from the military texts is paraded as the king begins to understand the benefit that can be drawn from using a foreign war as a means to bolster popularity at home. Henry notes, rather wistfully, that: We must learn To practise war again in time of peace Or lay our crown before our subjects’ feet. (III.i.103–6) Yet the foreign war does offer domestic salvation, an end to Perkin Warbeck’s rebellion and, in Elizabethan terms, a legitimising of a rationale for war, which by the 1630s must have seemed ideologically irresistible. However, a second notable text from very late in the Caroline period, despite its imperial and racist overtones, offers some relief from this dominant position and something of an alternative rationale. Henry Shirley’s The Martyr’d Souldier was staged in Drury Lane in 1638 and published in the same year.27 The play includes M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 202 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 202 war and nation in the theatre of shakespeare some of the most violent images of war and its consequences of any dealt with in this book and makes for uneasy reading in the context of today’s regimes of torture. The plot involves the relationship between Genzerick, King of the Vandalls [sic] and his Christian enemies. At the beginning of the play the king, ‘sicke on his bed’, is cheered up by his courtiers who, since he cannot by affected by music, read him accounts of their victories against the Christians: No, no; no Musick; But if you needs will charme my o’re-watcht eyes, Now growne too monstrous for their lids to close, If you so long to fill these Musicke-rooms, With ravishing sounds indeed; unclaspe that booke, Turne o’re that Monument of Martydomes, Read there how Genzerick has serv’d the gods And made their Altars drunke with Christian blood, Whil’st their loath’d bodies flung in funerall piles Like Incense burnt in Pyramids of fire. (I.i.28–37) The first scene is taken up with readings from the book, images which are acted out as the war against the Christians is rehearsed: ANTONIO: Thirty faire Mothers, big with Christian brats, Upon a scaffold in the Palace plac’d Had first their dugges sear’d off, their wombes ript up, About their miscreant heads their first borne Sonnes Tost as a sacrifice to Jupiter. (I.i.51–5) The point of the play is that, despite this gruesome beginning, the Vandalls one-by-one become converted to Christianity, including most surprisingly, their torturer-in-chief, Bellizarius. Christian prisoners and converted Vandalls then begin to defy Genzerick’s oppressive regime and receive the support of divine intervention from the Christian God: BELLIZARIUS: Prepare your tortures now you scourge of Christians, For Bellizarius the Christians torturer; Centuple all that I have ever done; Kindle the fire and hacke at once with swords; Teare me by piece-meals, strangle, and extend My every limbe and joint; may devise more Than ever did my bloody Tyrannies. M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 203 Beyond History 203 O let me never lose the sight of men That I may see an Angell once again. (I.ii.116–24) The intervention of God stops these cruelties and a range of other acts of war on the fields of battle nearby, and slowly everyone in the play observes the power of Christianity, from the ordinary soldiers to the king himself: SOULDIER: Strange, my Lord, beyond a wonder, For ’tis miraculous. Since you forsooke The bloody fight and horrour of the Christians One tortur’d wretch, whose sight was quite extinct, His eyes no farther seeing than his hands, Is now by that Eugenius, whom they call Their holy bishop, cleerly restor’d again To the astonishment of all your army. (I.i.56–63) Resisting this power until the end, Genzerick is struck by a bolt of lightning and replaced by Hubert, a military commander who has become a Christian soldier. The play ends with the establishment of a Christian union between the warring factions. War becomes redundant because God always intervenes, saving the wounded and restoring life to the dead, but since everyone is now converting to Christianity, there will be no more cause for war anyway. Furthermore, it is decided that the new state will be based on close consultation between monarch and people, which will extinguish both tyranny and popular dissent. Hubert claims that: Violent streames Must not bee stopt by violence; there’s an art To meete and put by most boysterous wave; ’Tis now no policy for you to murmure Nor will I threaten. A great counsell by you Shall straight be call’d to set this frame in order Of this great state. (V.i.501–7) The Martyr’d Souldier is an extraordinary text and it would be easy to be cynical: hell turns into Switzerland in a few short acts. Obviously, the play is a piece of orthodox Christian polemic, and one which too easily ignores the inter-Christian warfare that dominated Europe in the seventeenth century and could never be far from English minds. M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 204 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 204 war and nation in the theatre of shakespeare Alternatively, though, the play can be seen as a rebuttal of the compromises of Christianity in relation to real wars, from the Crusades through to the recent one with France, Spain and Scotland. There is Christian hegemony, the pagans drawn into the ‘civilised world’ through an appeal to their hearts and minds. Yet there is also something of Colet in this version of Christianity, a vision of an alternative dimension where the Charity texts are held to be about the community rather than the individual. Other possible analogies are available. Hubert is perhaps a model for Charles Stuart, calling for a conference with his people in order to ‘set’ the ‘frame’ for the state: if he will no longer threaten, they will no longer militate against monarchy. It is a gruesome but suggestive text in terms of its view of Christian justifications for war. Such a text, although aesthetically unappealing, nonetheless has something to add to the way that war was represented in the theatres of Shakespeare and his contemporaries. In some ways these obscure and sometimes wayward texts do indeed lie ‘beyond history’ in the sense that the familiar, domesticated and critically ‘overwritten’ Shakespeare belongs to a very certain history of war and nation that is difficult in itself to interrogate, although we can and should try. Not that long ago Shakespeare practically monopolised examination of the drama of the late sixteenth and early seventeenth centuries and his voice was easily allied to a widespread set of assumptions about his orthodox and conservative ‘view’ of English history. However, despite thirty years of theory and our reconnection to a host of nearforgotten plays, this view of a warlike Shakespeare has not gone away. Notes 1. Thomas Sackville and Thomas Norton (c. 1571), Gorbuduc, or Ferrex and Porrex, ed. Irby B. Cauthen (1970), London: Edward Arnold. References are to this edition. 2. Thomas Preston (1561), Cambises, King of Persia, in John Matthews Manly (ed.) (1897), Specimens of the Pre-Shaksperean Drama, London: Ginn. References are to this edition. 3. Looking at the plot of Cambises it is worth noting its original title: A lamentable tragedy mixed ful of pleasant mirth, conteyning the life of Cambises king of Percia. 4. Thomas Lodge and Robert Greene (1594), A Looking Glass for London and England, London. 5. John Lyly (1584), Campaspe, in Manly (ed.) (1897), Specimens of the Pre-Shaksperean Drama. References are to this edition. 6. Ibid., p. 301. M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 205 Beyond History 205 7. Robert Wilson (1588), The Three Lords and Three Ladies of London, ed. W. Carew Hazlitt, Dodsley’s Old English Plays, Vol. V. 8. George Peele [1594] (1907), The Battle of Alcazar, ed. Walter W. Greg, Oxford: Oxford University Press. References are to this edition. 9. Juan E. Tazón (2003) The Life and Times of Thomas Stukeley (c. 1525–78), Burlington, VT and Aldershot: Ashgate, p. 7. Anonymous [1605] (1975), The Famous Historye of the Life and Death of Captaine Thomas Stukeley. With his Marriage to Alderman Curteis Daughter, and Valient Ending of his Life at the Battaile of Alcazar, ed. Judith C. Levinson, Oxford: Oxford University Press. 10. John Poleman (1587), The Second Part of the Book of Battailes, Fought in our Age, London. 11. Tazón, The Life and Times of Thomas Stukeley, p. 11. 12. Thomas Lodge [1588] (1874), The Wounds of Civil War, ed. W. Carew Hazlitt, Dodsley’s Old English Plays, Vol. VII. 13. Ibid., pp. 174–5. 14. Anthony Munday (1600), Sir John Oldcastle, London. 15. Anthony Munday (1600), The Downfall of Robert, Earle of Huntington, OEDr, Sig, G4v. 16. An example would be William Clowes (1588), A Proved Practice for All Young Chirurgians, concerning burnings with Gunpowder, and Sword, Halbard, Pike, Launce, or such other, London. This text provides information about the medical treatment of the injured by trained surgeons and appeals for the long-term care of soldiers after the wars are ended. 17. Thomas Kyd [1585] (1989), The Spanish Tragedy, ed. J. R. Mulryne, London: A. & C. Black. 18. Thomas Kyd [1591] (1874), Soliman and Perseda, W. Carew Hazlitt (ed.), Dodsley’s Old English Plays, Vol. V. 19. Ibid., pp. 373–4. 20. Anon. (1590–1600), The Life and Death of Jack Straw, W. Carew Hazlitt (ed.), Dodsley’s Old English Plays, Vol. V. 21. See May McKisack (1959), The Fourteenth Century: 1307–1399, The Oxford History of England Series, Oxford: Clarendon Press, p. 421. 22. Anon., The Life and Death of Jack Straw, p. 384. 23. Ibid., p. 392. 24. Ibid. 25. Francis Beaumont [1613] (1986), The Knight of the Burning Pestle, ed. Michael Hattaway, London: A. & C. Black. References are to this edition. 26. John Ford [1633] (1968), The Chronicle History of Perkin Warbeck, ed. Peter Ure, London: Methuen. References are to this edition. 27. Henry Shirley (1638), The Martyr’d Souldier, London. References are to the 1638 folio. M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 206 9 THE ABANDONED SOLDIER 1 Harvest time in a village in England. When I was in Temple Grafton in the summer of 1992 I learnt something about Ray Peace and Ronnie Williams which came as a surprise. Despite the odds against their surviving many more of their bombing missions over Europe, both expressed a deep satisfaction that they had avoided conscription into the Army. The point was to do with the proximity of the enemy. As 1942 drew to a close, the period of Churchill’s ‘Hinge of Fate’, there was already speculation over the means by which an allied force might have to regain territory that had been occupied by the Nazis. It was predicted – rightly as it turned out – that this would involve intense close quarters combat, which Ray and Ronnie felt fortunate to have avoided in their own wartime careers. Their work, and even that of their colleagues in the fighter squadrons, set them at a distance from their enemy, and besides this they felt that when their time came they would rather go quickly and in one piece rather than be ‘shot up’ and sent home in pieces. The world of 1942 now seems in some ways as remote as that of Shakespeare and his contemporaries, and yet there are continuities that connect them with each other and both those worlds with our own. Much of the military writing of the late sixteenth and early seventeenth centuries was driven not by an enjoyment of killing or an obsession with order, but by uncertainties about the governmental apparatus that was to evolve in order to protect and promote the interests of a recognisably modern state. That in the time of Shakespeare the state hung on to myths about divine monarchy does not detract from the idea that the beginning of the modern era was under way and a sine qua non of the idea of the state was, as it is now, a standing army. Despite ‘troubles’ about its borders and various kinds of modification, devolution and changing alliance, the ‘Britain’ of Shakespeare’s later years survives as a now quite elderly ‘nation’. The other continuity is war. In the history of Britain, as in most recognisably modern states, war and nation are intimately connected M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 207 The Abandoned Soldier 207 and both have provided fruitful subject matter for a variety of cultural forms and the criticism that attends those forms. I have tried to explain how one brief period gave rise to an enormously influential body of theory devoted to an understanding of the direction that the modern state should take in terms of its military apparatus, from the detail of weaponry to the relationship between the soldier and God. My case has been that the theatre, form against form, interrogated some of the assumptions and theoretical predisposition of this military theory, often on behalf of those who would be called on to fight at close quarters or who had a moral objection to institutionalised killing. At the same time it has been necessary to work against a common conception that Shakespeare was unambiguously a supporter of war fought on behalf of the nation-state. My own view is that Shakespeare’s is a fairly conservative voice in these matters. He balances the pity of war against its perceived necessity whilst paying attention to what he seems to think of as its aesthetics. On the other hand, he shared with many of his contemporaries an obligation to reflect the interest some of his audience may have had in refusing the imposition of war in the name of God and nation. The opportunities for dissent through theatrical representations were limited, as they were for those who used Shakespeare to critique totalitarian states in the post-war twentieth century, so what we get may always be a compromised view. It may also be that prose texts, such as Deloney’s The Gentle Craft, enjoyed far more licence as vehicles for anti-war sentiment than the heavily regulated public theatre. There is, however, a chink in most of these dramatic texts through which to glimpse the enormity of war as a means of settling disputes or bolstering the flagging image of a monarch or politician. The figure that emerges most commonly from the military prose and fictional texts is the masculine heroic warrior. This is an ideal that pre-dated Shakespeare and has been passed down the centuries through the cultural artefacts of successive generations. A common view held by soldiers I have spoken with is that part of their motivation comes from being endlessly compared to this normative ideal.1 The British Army’s central and regimental archives and histories record the history of this figure, and the competitive nature of training regimes ensures it is always at hand to shape and occasionally bully the recruit who falls short of expectations. The ideal manifests itself in what can only be described as a ‘hardness’ – a certain physical manner that is accompanied by a specialised diction and self-possession. It is the acquisition of this, or rather the training that encourages it, that is M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 208 26/9/07 2:15 pm Page 208 war and nation in the theatre of shakespeare sometimes espoused as an ideal remedy for the problem of wayward youth in modern Britain.2 It can also be seen in the swagger of political leaders as they stand shoulder to shoulder with their allies, often aboard aircraft carriers, sometimes dressed in some curious quasimilitary garb, directing far-away wars. This heightened masculinity is a fiction that Shakespeare and his contemporaries knew only too well could be acted out, just as surely as they knew that many of the ‘returned soldiers’ in the streets of Elizabethan London were in fact counterfeiting their battle wounds through self-mutilation.3 Whilst many who serve or have served in the armed forces readily subscribe to this image of masculinity, which has corresponding mores among female recruits, there are also those who regard it as a form of ideological control. In fact, many aspects of military service have come under close scrutiny in Britain and elsewhere in recent years, partly because of the conditions imposed on recruits by an increased level of warfare itself. Soldiers and ex-soldiers (and their families) have started complaining: about the inadequacy of their weapons and clothing, military housing, the bullying some have experienced during training and exercises, pay and pensions, and, above all, about their treatment when wounded or retired. A frequent lament is that the dead are treated with due dignity and ritual, but once no longer able to act ‘in theatre’ the retired, wounded or mentally damaged are ignored and in many cases tempted by suicide. Much of this disquiet has found expression in soldiers’ and exsoldiers’ internet blogs. Some of these express profound disillusion with the causes they are paid to fight for. It is as though what has been traditionally ‘kept dark’ about some aspects of service life has suddenly been revealed. One aspect of the treatment of war in the plays of Shakespeare and his contemporaries was that the military subjects, and especially those in positions of leadership, were dangerously prone to a degree of autonomy that could manifest itself in acts of cruelty. In other cases disaffected soldiers could change sides to find a more accommodating cause. In the modern world this autonomy has expressed itself in the numerous acts of torture that have been exposed in connection with the ‘war against terrorism’. Yet for every latterday Tamburlaine there is a twenty-first-century general willing to speak to the media about the cause, or the treatment of personnel, in a way that would have been unthinkable just a few years ago. Just as in the age of Shakespeare, the militarised subject, honed to perfection according to the disciplines of war, can turn against those who have created the institution that has produced him. Soldiers speaking M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 209 The Abandoned Soldier 209 out, or admitting their fears, or too sympathetic to the enemy, were discouraged in the military theory of the early modern period just as they attract controversy in the modern world. Aggrieved ex-service personnel and their families who lobbied the British Parliament in 2006 brought with them to Trafalgar Square a large sculpted head entitled ‘The Abandoned Soldier’. The face of the soldier was cracked and distressed: the contrast with the smooth faces of the warriors on nearby plinths and those found on the many effigies commemorating the two world wars was complete. Those soldiers whose disillusion extends beyond the issue of conditions to the cause itself are sometimes asked about how warfare can end. The response includes the idea that if people could get closer to war then it would stop altogether. This sentiment echoes that of war correspondents who claim that the images transmitted from theatres of war are too sanitised and that if the reality was shown, people would find alternatives to war. However, as seems to have been the case in Shakespeare’s day, the capacity for war to be smoothed over in the name of tragedy is immense. Pity floods the channels of dissent and refusal, and acts of remembrance and evocations of sacrifice restore the dead to their place on the memorials and in the grateful hearts of the nation. The compelling aspect of the drama of the early modern period is that it came at a crossroads for the emerging nations. Were they to heed the sanctions against war of the reforming theologians or simply to adapt their weapons and tactics to suit the times? This moment of uncertainty was captured in the theatre and in other forms of popular fiction. There was a glimmer of hope that war might pass into history as an atavism.4 What happened, of course, is that the dramatic literature of the time, and especially that of Shakespeare, was distilled for its patriotism, its celebration of warlike heroism and its numerous role models. Henry V’s speeches have found their way not only into the boardroom as inspiration for company managers but also into the White House and the backpacks of its soldiers.5 The period itself has long been seen as an inspiration to empire-builders in business and the world as one of individual enterprise and exploration.6 Meanwhile, some of those businesses are active in producing weapons that will further sanitise war, ensuring the relative safety of those who operate them and avoiding the problem of ‘proximity’. On the way to work each morning I walk along one of Cheltenham’s pleasant central thoroughfares. ‘The Promenade’ has on one side what must be some of the most expensive shops in the country, and on the opposite side there is a series of monuments set M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 210 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 210 war and nation in the theatre of shakespeare among gardens and trees. Cheltenham’s reputation as a popular spa resort was established in the Georgian period, so it is not altogether surprising to find an ornate fountain within which sits Neptune, saluting passers-by with his trident. Cheltenham is also a town characterised in part by its longstanding associations with militarism and defence. Historically, it was favoured as a place of retirement for British officers. One reason for this, I have heard said, is because its mild but slightly damp climate reminded these colonels and majors of places they had served in the Empire. In our own troubled times Cheltenham has a significant role to play in the ‘war against terrorism’ since it is the location of the Government Communications Headquarters (GCHQ) of which, of course, I may say nothing more. Along from Neptune and spaced at regular intervals are three less flamboyant and rather more serious monuments, all evoking a sense of loss and remembrance. Furthest from Neptune is a statue commemorating local people who died in the Boer Wars in South Africa of 1899–1902. A uniformed figure stands atop a plinth, his rifle reversed and his pith helmeted head forever bowed. Shrouded in silence, he seems a perfect representation of the pity summoned for those who were killed in that now almost forgotten colonial campaign. As with many similar monuments his sombre and timeless vigil is deeply symbolic of our attitudes to war and nation, and to militarism and its consequences. Closest to Neptune is a statue commemorating one of Cheltenham’s famous sons. It reads: EDWARD ADRIAN WILSON BA MB CANTAB FZS BORN IN CHELTENHAM 1872 CHIEF OF THE SCIENTIFIC STAFF ARTIST AND ZOOLOGIST OF THE BRITISH ANTARTIC EXPEDITION 1910–1913 HE REACHED THE SOUTH POLE JANUARY 17 1912 AND DIED WITH CAPTAIN SCOTT ON THE GREAT ICE BARRIER MARCH 1912 Scott’s expedition to the South Atlantic has been derided by some as a late empire adventure in patriotism, little more than a race to reach the South Pole before the Norwegians did. Flawed as the enterprise certainly was, Wilson stands as an example of a masculinity that devoted itself to science, the arts and the challenge of a journey that he M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 211 The Abandoned Soldier 211 undertook despite chronic poor health. The figure provides a stark contrast with those of young men and latterly young women recruited to take part in military activities in the name of glory and sacrifice. Each November a ceremony takes place in front of the third monument, the war memorial to the dead of the two world wars which stands between Wilson and the soldier from the South African campaign. Local clergy conduct the Remembrance Sunday service each November and personnel from the local Royal Air Force base guard the memorial for the duration. They stand like statues themselves at each corner in uniforms that would have been recognisable to Raymond Peace and Ronald Williams.7 You have to stand on tiptoe to read the inscription, but you find it is partly in the words of William Shakespeare, prompting you to act like a soldier, in the eternal name of war and nation: Remember the men of Cheltenham who gave their lives for you in the Great War. If they were strangers to one another here in their common home they served and wrought and died in many lands near and far as a band of brothers. Learn from themselves to live and die that when you have followed them and are no more seen you may like them be remembered and regretted. Notes 1. One of these soldiers directed me to Ben Elton (2005), The First Casualty, London: Black Swan, a novel about the First World War, where he had found what he considered an apt description of another source of motivation for soldiers. In the book, Douglas Kingsley, a policeman who is also a conscientious objector, is sent to the trenches to investigate a murder. Witnessing the carnage, Kingsley notes that he had heard soldiers speaking ‘not of the fear of death but the fear of being found wanting, of having let the side down. Robert, Kingsley’s brother, had spoken of it often in his letters. “I am afraid of fear,” he had written, “I only want to do my best.” They all wanted to do their best. Indeed, after a yearning for home, Kingsley had read, the fear of letting the side down was the principal emotion expressed by the doomed generation that sat in ditches in France. Comrades living cheek by jowl in fear and squalor, dependent only on each other for comfort and support, and in each man’s heart the deep-seated desire not to let his mates down and the secret fear that when the ultimate test came, he might’ (p. 352). 2. One notes that in Scotland there are plans to offer youngsters aged 16 and 17 the option of residential courses in military training run by the Territorial Army. Plans in the UK to raise the school leaving age to 18 raise the spectre of a similar kind of training across the UK. M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 212 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 212 war and nation in the theatre of shakespeare 3. Thomas Dekker in O PER SE O of 1612 describes in detail the science of self-mutilation which involved plates of copper, bandages and arrested gangrene which wrote onto the bodies of pretend soldiers a seemingly authentic message of self-sacrifice in the name of national identity. Thus the streets of London were full of individuals who could claim to have fought on behalf of the military idealism of the soldier subject, but whose integrity could not be proved. 4. I suppose an equivalent moment in modern history was the decision of the new revolutionary government in Russia to withdraw troops from the First World War. Say what you like about the Bolsheviks, but this a considerable, if short-lived, rejection of warfare. See Michael Melancon (1990), The Socialist Revolutionaries and the Russian Anti-War Movement 1914–17, Columbus, OH: Ohio State University Press. 5. See Norman Augustine and Kenneth Adelman (1999), Shakespeare in Charge: The Bard’s Guide to Leading and Succeeding on the Business Stage, New York: Hyperion Books; Paul Corrigan (2000), Shakespeare on Management: Leadership Lessons for Today’s Managers, London: Kogan Page; Richard Olivier (2002), Inspirational Leadership: Henry V and the Muse of Fire, Rolinson, NH: Spiro Press. There was also the now famous quasi-Shakespearean speech delivered by Lieutenant Tim Collins as the Royal Irish Regiment prepared to enter Iraq. He urged his soldiers to be ‘ferocious in battle but magnanimous in victory’, spoke of Iraq’s history and the humanity of its people, and reminded them of the significance of the ‘mark of Cain’. See transcript in the Sun, Wednesday, 21 May 2003, p. 5. 6. One telling example from recent British history was the gift given to General Pinochet as he was departing London in 2000, as a token of regard and acknowledgement of his help during the war in the South Atlantic. Andy Beckett explains: ‘A cargo hoist had to be used to lift Pinochet into the plane. There was a small delay. A present had arrived for the general from a well-wisher. As television crews began to gather beyond the perimeter fence, it had to be carried out to the aircraft. The gift was a signed silver plate: a reproduction of those cast in 1588 to commemorate Sir Francis Drake’s victory over the Spanish Armada. No one could accuse Margaret Thatcher of lacking a sense of history.’ See Andy Beckett (2002), Pinochet in Piccadilly: Britain and Chile’s Hidden History, London: Faber and Faber, p. 256. 7. It is not my intention to belittle these acts of remembrance or the comfort they afford. I attend the Cheltenham ceremony each year with my father who fought at sea during the Second World War. And I remember being deeply moved by the attempts of the custodian at the Scottish National War Memorial in Edinburgh Castle to get visiting tourists to remove their hats and caps as they entered the Hall of Honour. Many simply did not understand this mark of respect and were astonished by his polite urgings. M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 213 BIBLIOGRAPHY AND FURTHER READING Achesome, James (1629), The Military Garden, Or Instructions For All Young Soldiers, London. Adams, Robert P. (1962), The Better Part of Valour: More, Erasmus, Colet and Vives, on Humanism, War and Peace 1496–1535, Seattle, WA: University of Washington Press. Addison, Paul and Crang, Jeremy (eds) (2006), Firestorm: the Bombing of Dresden: 1945, London: Pimlico. Alexander, Catherine M. S. and Wells, Stanley (eds) (2001), Shakespeare and Sexuality, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. Alfar, Cristina Leon (2005), ‘Fantasies of Female Evil: The Dynamics of Gender and Power in Shakespearean Tragedy’, Shakespeare Quarterly, 56: 1, 110–12. Allen, P. S., Allen, H. M. and Garrod, H. W. (eds) (1905–47), Opus Epistolarum Des. Erasmi Roterodami, Oxford: Oxford University Press, Vol. IV. Anderson, Perry (1974), Lineages of the Absolutist State, London: Verso. Anonymous (fourteenth century) Wynnnere and Wastoure, ed. Stephanie Trigg, Oxford: Oxford University Press. Anonymous (fourteenth century) The Alliterative Morte Arthure (1983), ed. Valerie Krisna, Lanham, MD: University Press of America. Anonymous (1530?), Ordre or Trayne of Warre, that a Prynce, or a Heed Captayne, ought to take, that will Conquere, or assege a place, or keepe or defende a place, where he dowteth to be assay led in his owne countree, or to marche or travers the countree of his enemys or to make gwerne gwerneable, London. Anonymous (1590), A Journall, wherein is truly sette downe from day to day, what was doone, and wirthy of noting in both the Armies, from the last comming of the Duke of Parma into France, vntill the eighteenth of May 1592, London. Anonymous [1590–1600] (1874), The Life and Death of Jack Straw, in W. Carew Hazlitt (ed.), Dodsley’s Old English Plays, Vol. V. Anonymous (1591), Ordinances Set Forth by the King, for the rule and government of his Majesties men of warrs. Read and publist at Caen the 30. March 1591, London, Anonymous [1605] (1975), The Famous Historye of the Life and Death of Captaine Thomas Stukeley. With his Marriage to Alderman Curteis M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 214 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 214 war and nation in the theatre of shakespeare Daughter, and Valient Ending of his Life at the Battaile of Alcazar, ed. Judith C. Levinson, Oxford: Oxford University Press. Anonymous (1622), A Spiritual Chaine and Armour of Choice for Sion Souldiers, London. Anonymous (1638), Directions for Musters, Cambridge. Anonymous (1639), Mars, His Triump: an Exercise performed the XVIII. of October, 1638. in the Merchant-Taylors Hall By Certain Gentlemen of the Artillery Garden London, London. Anonymous (1641), The Exercise of the English, in the Militia of the Kingdome of England, London. Anonymous (1642), Militia Old and New. One thousand six hundred forty two. Read All or None: And then Censure, London. Anonymous (1642), Englands Savety in Navie and Fortifications; The Common Interest both of King and People, London. Anonymous (1642), A true Abstract of i List, In which is set down the severall entertainments allowed by His Majesty to the Officers and other Souldiers of his Army. With the copy of an Oath given to all the Officers and Souldiers at their entertainment into the King’s Service. Also some few speciall Orders ordained in His Majesties Army, London. Anonymous (1642), A True Description of The Discipline of War Both for Horse and Foot, used in His Majesties Army, under their Excellencies William Earle of New-Castle, and Prince Robert. With the order and Manner of their marching and exercising in the field, London. Anonymous (1643), A True Relation of Prince Rupert’s Barbarous Cruelty against the Town of Birmingham, London. Anonymous (1643), Prince Rupert’s Burning Love to England Discovered in Birmingham’s Flames, London. Anonymous (1647), Il Pastor Fido, London. Aquinas, Thomas (1895), Summa Theologica, Opera Omnia, Vol. VIII, Rome. Archer, Ian W., Fletcher, Anthony, Guy, John and Morrill, John (1991), The Pursuit of Stability: Social Relations in Elizabethan London, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. Aristotle, The Politics (1962), trans. T. A. Sinclair, London: Penguin. Ascham, Roger (1545), Toxophilus, the schole of shootinge conteyned in two bookes. To all Gentlmen and yomen of Englande, Pleasainte for theyr pastyme to rede, and profitable for theyr use to follow, both in war and in peace, London. Ashplant, T. G., Dawson, Graham and Roper, Michael (2000), Routledge Studies in Memory and Narrative, London: Routledge. Augustine, Norman and Adelman, Kenneth (1999), Shakespeare in Charge: The Bard’s Guide to Leading and Succeeding on the Business Stage, New York: Hyperion Books. Bainton, Roland H. (1961), Christian Attitudes to War and Peace, New York: Abingdon Press. M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 215 Bibliography and Further Reading 215 Barish, Jonas (1981), The Anti-Theatrical Prejudice, Berkeley and Los Angeles, CA: University of California Press. Barker, Simon (1983), ‘Images of the Sixteenth and Seventeenth Centuries as a History of the Present’, in Literature, Politics & Theory, ed. Francis Barker, Peter Hulme, Margaret Iverssen and Diana Loxley, London and New York: Methuen. Barker, Simon (1986), ‘Coriolanus: Texts and Histories’, in Assays: Critical Approaches to Medieval and Renaissance Texts, ed. Peggy Knapp, Pittsburgh: University of Pittsburgh Press, Vol. IV. Barker, Simon (1990), ‘The Armada Year: Literature, Popular Histories and the Question of Heritage’, in Comunicazione Sociale e Testo Letterario, ed. Daniela Corona, Palermo: Università di Palermo. Barker, Simon (1992), ‘ “The Double-Armed Man” – Images of the Medieval in Early Modern Military Idealism’, in From Medieval to Medievalism, ed. John Simons, Basingstoke: Macmillan. Barker, Simon (2001), ‘Dressing up for War: Militarism in Early Modern Culture’, Dressing up for War: Transformations of Gender and Genre in the Discourse and Literature of War, ed. Aránzazu Usandizaga and Andrew Monnickendam, Amsterdam and New York: Rodopi. Barker, Simon (2003), ‘ “Allarme to England!”; Gender and Militarism in Early Modern England’, in Gender, Power, and Privilege in Early Modern Europe, ed. Penny Richards and Jessica Munns, Harlow: Longman. Barker, Simon (2005), ‘ “It’s an actor, boss. Unarmed”: the Rhetoric of Julius Caesar’, in Julius Caesar: New Critical Essays, ed. Horst Zander, London and New York: Routledge. Barnes, Thomas (1626), Vox Belli, or an Alarum to Warre, London. Barnett, Correlli (1970), Britain and Her Army, 1509–1970: A Military, Political and Social Survey, New York: William Morrow. Barret, Henry (1562), A briefe booke unto private captaynes leadinge ffootmen, London. Barret, Robert (1598), The Theorike and Pracktike of Moderne Discourses in Dialogue wise, London. Barriffe,William (1639), Military Discipline: Or The Yong Artillery Man, wherein is discoursed and showne the Postures both of Mushet and Pike: THE EXACTEST WAY, &C. Together with the Motions which are to be used, in the exercsing of a Foot-Company. With divers and severall formes and figures of Bottelli; with their reducements; very necessary for all such as are studious in the Art Military, London. Barry, Gerrat (1634), A Discourse of Military Discipline Divided Into Three Bookes, Declaring The Partes and sufficience ordained in a private Souldier, and in each Officer; Servinge in the Infantry, till the election and office of the Captaine General; And the Laste Booke Treatinge Of Fire-Workes of rare executions bt sea and lande, as also of firtisasions, Brussels. M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 216 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 216 war and nation in the theatre of shakespeare Barton, Anne (1994), Essays, Mainly Shakespearean, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. Barwick, Humfrey (1594), A Briefe Discourse, Concerning the force and effect of all manuell weapons of fire and the disability of the Long Bowe of Archery, in respect of other of greater force now in use, London. Bassille, Theodore (1542), The new pollecye of warre, wherein is declared not only how ye mooste cruell Tyrant the great Turke maye be overcome, but also all other enemies of the Christian publicke, London. Battenhouse, Roy (1941), Marlowe’s Tamburlaine: A Study in Renaissance Moral Philosophy, Nashville, TN: Vanderbilt University Press. Beaumont, Francis [1613] (1986), The Knight of the Burning Pestle, ed. Michael Hattaway, London: A. & C. Black. de Beccarie de Pavie, Raimonde, Sieur de Fourquevaux (1589), Instructions for the Warres, Amply learnedly and politiquely discoursing the method of Military Discipline, London. Beckett, Andy (2002), Pinochet in Piccadilly: Britain and Chile’s Hidden History, London: Faber and Faber. Belsey, Catherine (1980), Critical Practice, London and New York: Methuen. Belsey, Catherine (1985), The Subject of Tragedy: Identity and Difference in Renaissance Drama, London: Methuen. Bender, H. (1959), ‘The Pacifism of the Sixteenth-Century Anabaptists’, Mennonite Quarterly Review, XXX, pp. 7–9. Benjamin, Walter (1967), Versuche über Brecht: Herausgegeben und mit einem Nachwort versehen von Rolf Tiedemann, Berlin. Bennett, Andrew and Royle, Nicholas (2004), An Introduction to Literature, Criticism and Theory, 3rd revised edition, Harlow: Pearson. Benveniste, Emile [1966] (1971), Problems in General Linguistics, Miami, FL: University of Miami Press. Berek, Peter (1982), ‘Tamburlaine’s Weak Sons: Imitation as Interpretation Before 1593’, Renaissance Drama 13: 55–82. Berger, Harry (1991), ‘On the Continuity of the Henriad: A Critique of some Literary and Theatrical Approaches’, in Shakespeare Left and Right, ed. Ivo Kamps, London: Routledge. Bernard, Richard (1629), The Bible-Battels or the Sacred Art Military. For the rightly wageing of warre according to Holy Writ. Compiled for the use of all such valient Worthies, and vertuously Valerous Soutldiers, as upon all just occasions be ready to affront the Enemeies of God, our King, and Country, London. Bestul, Thomas (1974), Satire and Allergory in Wynnere and Wastoure, Lincoln, NB: University of Nebraska Press. Bevington, David (1986), Tudor Drama and Politics, Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press. Bingham, John (1616), The Exercise of the English in the service of the high and mighty Lords of the united Provinces in the Low Countries, London. M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 217 Bibliography and Further Reading 217 Black, Jeremy M. (ed.) (1987), The Origins of War in Early Modern Europe, Edinburgh: Donald. Black, Jeremy M. (1996), The Cambridge Illustrated Atlas of Warfare: Renaissance to Revolution 1492–1792, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. Blackwell, Basil (1954), Shakespearean Production, London: Faber and Faber. Blackwell, Basil (1956), A Royal Propaganda 1956. A Narrative Account of Work Devoted to the Cause of Great Britain During and after the Second World War, MS, BL 11786.f.13. Blandy, William (1581), The Castle, or pictures of pollicy shewing forth . . . the duety, quality, profession of a perfect and absolute souldier, the martiall feates, encounters, and skirmishes lately done by our English nation. Blandy, William (1591), The Castle, or picture of pollicy shewing forth most lively the face, body and partes of a commonwealthe, the duety, quality, Profession of a perfect and absolute Souldier, London. Blese, John R. E. (1989), ‘Rhetoric and Morale: A Study of Battle Orations from the Central Middle Ages’, Journal of Medieval History 15: 201–26. Bogdanov, Michael and Pennington, Michael (1990), The English Shakespeare Company, London: Nick Hern Books. Bourke, Joanna (1996), Dismembering the Male, London: Reaktion Books. Bourke, Joanna (1999), An Intimate History of Killing, London: Granta. Bourke, Joanna (2001), The Second World War: A People’s History, Oxford: Oxford University Press. Bowen, Barbara (1959), Gender in the Theatre of War, Shakespeare’s Troilus and Cressida, London: Garland. Boynton, Lindsay (1967), The Elizabethan Militia, London: Routledge & Kegan Paul. Braen, Gordon (1985), Renaissance Tragedy and the Senecan Tradition: Anger’s Privilege, New Haven, CT: Yale University Press. Brecht, Bertolt (1965), Der aufhaltsame Aufstieg des Arturo Ui, Berlin: Suhrkamp Verlag. Brecht, Bertolt (1981), The Resistible Rise of Arturo Ui, ed. John Willet and Ralph Manheim, London: Methuen. Breight, Curtis, C. (1996), Surveillance, Militarism and the Drama in the Elizabethan Era, Basingstoke: Macmillan. Breitenberg, Mark (1996), Anxious Masculinity in Early Modern England, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. Brewer, Ebenezer Cobham (1898), Dictionary of Phrase and Fable, London: Cassell. Brewer’s Dictionary of 20th-Century Phrase and Fable (1991), London: Cassell. Bristol, Michael (1985), Carnival and Theatre: Plebeian Culture and the Structure of Authority in Renaissance England, London: Methuen. M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 218 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 218 war and nation in the theatre of shakespeare Bruster, Douglas (1992), Drama and the Market in the Age of Shakespeare, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. Butler, Judith (1990), Gender Trouble: Feminism and the Subversion of Identity, New York: Routledge. Calbi, Maurizio (2005), Approximate Bodies: Gender and Power in Early Modern Drama and Anatomy, New York and London: Routledge. Callaghan, Dympna (ed.) (2006), The Impact of Feminism on Renaissance Studies, Basingstoke: Palgrave Macmillan. Carlton, Charles (1992), Going to the Wars: The Experience of the English Civil Wars 1638–1651, London and New York: Routledge. Cheney, Patrick (1998), Marlowe’s Counterfeit Profession: Ovid, Spenser, Counter-Nationhood, Toronto: University of Toronto Press. Cheshire, Geoffrey Leonard (1961), The Face of Victory, London: Hutchinson. Cheyney, Edward P. (1926), A History of England, 2 vols, London: Longman. Churchill, Winston S. (1948–54), The Second World War, 6 vols, London: Cassell. Churchyard, Thomas (1579), A generall rehearsall of warres, London. Clark, Suzanne (2000), Cold Warriors, Manliness in Trial in the Rhetoric of the West, Carbondalo, IL: Southern Illinois University Press. Clayton, Giles (1591), Approved Order of Martiall Discipline, London. Clode, C. M. (1869), The Military Forces of the Crown, London: John Murray. Clowes, William (1588), A Proved Practice for All Young Chirurgians, concerning burnings with Gunpowder, and Sword, Halbard, Pike, Launce, or such other, London. Cockle, M. J. D. (1900), A Bibliography of English Military Books up to 1642 and of Contemporary Foreign Works, London: Simpkin, Marshall, Hamilton, Kent & Co. Colon Semenza, Gregory M. (2001), ‘Sport, War and Contest in Shakespeare’s Henry VI’, Renaissance Quarterly, 54, 1251–72. Corbett, J. S. (1900), The Successors of Drake, London: Longman. Cormack, Elizabeth (1998), ‘Britannia Rules the Waves? Images of Empire in Elizabethan England’, Early Modern Literary Studies, 4.2 special edition, 1–20. Corrigan, Paul (2000), Shakespeare on Management: Leadership Lessons for Today’s Managers, London: Kogan Page. Cotter, Jarrod (2005), Living Lancasters: Keeping the Legend Alive, Stroud: Sutton. Courtney, Richard (1994) Shakespeare’s World of War: The Early Histories, Toronto: Simon & Pierre. Coward, Barry (1980), The Stuart Age, 3rd edition, Harlow: Longman. Crosby, Alfred W. (2002), Throwing Fire: Projectile Technology Through History, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 219 Bibliography and Further Reading 219 Cruickshank, C. G. (1966), Elizabeth’s Army, London: Oxford University Press. Cruso, John (1632), Military Instructions for the Cavallerie, London. Curt, Henry (ed.) (1905), Niccolò Machiavelli – ‘The Arte of Warre’ and ‘The Prince’, . . . Englished by P. Whitehorne, London. ‘D. I.’ (1631), Lawes and Ordinances touching military discipline, The Hague. Dawson, Graham (1994), Soldier Heroes: British Adventures, Empire and the Imagining of Masculinities, London: Routledge. De La Noue, François (1587), The Politicke and Militarie Discourses, Of the Lord De La Noue, Wheretoare Adjoyned certaine observations of the same Author, or things happened during the three late civil warres of France with a true declaration of Manie particulars touching the same, translated by E.A., London. De La Noue, François (1589), The Declaration of the Lord de la Noue, upon his Taking Armes. De Maisse, (1590s?), A Journal of All That Was Accomplished by Monsieur de Maisse, Ambassidor in England, ed. G. B. Harrison and R. A. Jones, London. De Mendoza, Bernardino (1597), Theorique and Practise of Warre, Written to Don Philip Prince of Castil, by Mendoza. Translated out of the Castilian Tonge into Englishe, by Sr. Edwarde Hoby Knight, London. De Pisan, Christina (1498), The Boke of the fayt of armes and of Chyalreye, London. De Saussure, Ferdinand [1916] (1974), A Course in General Linguistics, trans. Wade Baskin, London: Fontana. De Somogyi, Nick (1998), Shakespeare’s Theatre of War, Burlington, VT and Aldershot: Ashgate. Deakin, Quentin (2000), Expansion, War and Rebellion, Europe, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. Dekker, Thomas [1599] (1999), The Shoemaker’s Holiday, ed. R. L. Smallwood and Stanley Wells, Manchester: Manchester University Press. Dekker, Thomas (1612), O PER SE O, London. Deloney, Thomas (1966), ‘The Queenes Visiting of the Campe at Tilsburie, with her entertainment there’, in J. W. Ebsworth (ed.), The Roxburghe Ballads, Hertford: Stephen Austin and Sons; repr. New York: AMS. Deloney, Thomas [1597/8] (2007), The Gentle Craft, ed. Simon Barker, Burlington, VT and Aldershot: Ashgate. Digges, Thomas (1587), A Briefe Report on the Militarie Services done in the Low Countries, by the Erle of Leicester, London STC 7285. Digges, Thomas (1590), An Arithmeticall warlike Treatise named Stratioticos . . . As well concerning the Science or Art of great Artillerie, as the Offices of the Sergeant Major Generall, the Coronall General, and M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 220 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 220 war and nation in the theatre of shakespeare Lord Marshall, with a conference of the English, French and Spanish Disciplines, beside sundry other Militarie Discourses of no small importance, London. Digges, Thomas (1590), A Discourse of the Great Overthrow Given by the French King, London. Digges, Thomas (1604), Four Paradoxes, or Politique Discourses concerning Militarie Discipline, London. Dollimore, Jonathan (1984), Radical Tragedy, Chicago: Chicago University Press. Dollimore, Jonathan and Alan Sinfield (eds) (1985), Political Shakespeare: New Essays in Cultural Materialism, Manchester: Manchester University Press. Dorril, Stephen (2006), Blackshirt: Sir Oswald Mosely and British Fascism, London: Penguin. Drakakis, John (1984), Alternative Shakespeares, London: Methuen. Duffy, Christopher (1997), Siege Warfare: The Fortress in the Early Modern Period 1494–1660, London: Routledge. Duffy, M. (ed.) (1980), Military Revolution and the State 1500–1800, Exeter: University of Exeter Press. Eagleton, Terry (1969), An Introduction to Literary Theory, 2nd edition, Oxford: Blackwell. Edelman, Charles (2000), Shakespeare’s Military Language: A Dictionary, London: Athlone. Edmondes, Sir Clement (1581), Observations upon the five first bookes of Caesars Commentaries, setting forth the practise of the art military, in the time of the Roman Empire. Wherein are handled all the chiefest points of their discipline, with the true reasons of every part, together with such instructions as may be drawne from their proceedings, for the btt direction of our moderne wars, London. Elizabeth I (4 October 1588), Proceedings concerning soldiers pressed for the low countries, London, STC 8175. Elizabeth I (13 November 1589), Proceedings. A Proclamayion against vagarent Souldiers and others, London, STC 8188. Elton, Ben (2005), The First Casualty, London: Black Swan. Emmison, F. G. (1970), Elizabethan Life: Disorder, Chelmsford: Essex County Council. Erasmus, Desiderius [1503 and 1509] (1978), Enchiridion Militas Christiani – Praise of Folly (1509), trans. Betty Radice, Harmondsworth: Penguin. Erasmus, Desiderius (1511), The Praise of Folly, trans. Leonard F. Dean (1946), Chicago: Chicago University Press. Erasmus, Desiderius [1516] (1953), Enchiridion Militis Christiani – The Handbook of the Christian Soldier, trans. Ford Lewis Battles in the series Advocaes of Reform from Wyclif to Erasmus, ed. Matthew Spinka, London: SCM Press. M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 221 Bibliography and Further Reading 221 Erasmus, Desiderius [1516] (1936), The Education of a Christian Prince, trans. Lester K. Born, New York: Columbia University Press. Erasmus, Desiderius [1517] (1936), The Complaint of Peace, intro. William J. Hirten, New York: Columbia University Press. Erasmus, Desiderius [1522] (1965), The Colloquies of Erasmus, trans. Craig R. Thompson, Chicago: Chicago University Press. Everade, John (1618), The Arriereban. A Sermon preached to the company of the Military Yarde, at St. Andrewes Church in Holborne on St. James his day last, London. Field, Maury (1977), The Structure of Violence: Armed Forces as Social Systems, Beverly Hills, CA: Sage. Field, Theophilus (1628), A Watch-Word, or the Allarme, or a good Take Heed. A Sermon preached at White-Hall in the open preaching place the last Lent before King Charles, London. Fitter, Chris (1991), ‘A Tale of Two Branaghs: Henry V, Ideology and the Mekong Agincourt’, in Shakespeare Left and Right, ed. Ivo Kamps, London: Routledge. Foakes, R. A. (2002), Shakespeare and Violence, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. Ford, John [1633] (1968), The Chronicle History of Perkin Warbeck, ed. Peter Ure, London: Methuen. Forhan, Kate Langdon (2002), The Political Theory of Christine de Pizan, Burlington, VT and Aldershot: Ashgate. Fortescue, Thomas (1571), The Forest, a translation of Pedro Mexia’s Silva de Varia Leccion, London. Fortesque, J. W. (1910), A History of the British Army, 2nd edition, London: Macmillan. Foucault, Michel (1979), Discipline and Punish: The Birth of the Prison, trans. Alan Sheridan. New York: Vintage. Fourquevaux, Raymond de Beccarie, Sieur de Pavie (1589), Instructions for Warres, trans. Paul Ive. Freud, Sigmund (1915), Thoughts for the Times on War and Death. Penguin Freud Library, Vol. 12, Civilisation, Society and Religion, London: Penguina Books, pp. 61–72. Frontius, Sextus Julius (1519), The Stratagems. Sleyghtes, and policies of warre, gathered togyther, by Julius Frontius, and translated into Englishe, by Rycharde Rorysine, London. Furssell, P. (2000), The Great War & Modern Memory, Oxford: Oxford University Press. Garrard, William (1591), The Arte of Warre. Being the onely rare booke of Myllitarie profession: drawne out of all our late and forreine services, by William Garrard Gentleman, who served the King of Spayne in his warres foutenn yeeres, and died Anno Domino 1587. Which may be called, the true steppes of warre, the perfect path of knowledge, and the playne plot M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 222 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 222 war and nation in the theatre of shakespeare of warlike exercises; as the reeder hereof shall plainly see expressed, London. Gates, Geoffrey (1579), The Defence of Militarie Profession, Wherein is eloquently shewed the due commendation of Martial prowesse, and plainly proved hoe necessary the exercise of Armes is for this our age, London. Gernon, Luke (1620), A Discourse of Ireland, London. Gibbon, Charles (1596), A Watch-word for Warre, London. Gibson, Guy [1948] (1986), Enemy Coast Ahead, Manchester: Crécy Publishing. Giddens, Eugene (2001), ‘Honourable Men: Militancy and Masculinity in Julius Caesar’, Renaissance Forum, Vol. 5, No. 2. Goldberg, Jonathan (1983), James I and the Politics of Literature: Jonson, Shakespeare, Donne and their Contemporaries, Baltimore, MD: Johns Hopkins Press. Göller, K. H. (ed.) (1981), The Alliterative Morte Arthure: A Reassessment of the Poem, Bury St Edmunds: D. S. Brewer. Gosson, Stephen (1598), The Trumpet of Warre, A Sermon preached at Paules Crosse the seventh of Maie 1598, London. Grantley, Darrell and Taunton, Nina (eds) (2000), The Body in Late Medieval and Early Modern Culture, Burlington, VT and Aldershot: Ashgate. di Grassi, Giacomo (1594), His true Arte of Defence, Plainlie teaching by infallible Demonstrations, apt Figures and perfect rules the manner and forme how a man without other Teacher or Master may safelie handle all sorts of Weapons as well offensive as deffensive; And with a waie or means by private Industrie to obtain Strength, Judgement and Activitie, London. Grayling, A. C. (2006), Among the Dead Cities: Was the Allied Bombing of Civilians in World War II a Necessity or a Crime? London: Bloomsbury. Greenblatt, Stephen (1980), Renaissance Self-Fashioning from More to Shakespeare, Chicago: Chicago University Press. Greenblatt, Stephen (1988), Shakespearean Negotiations, Oxford: Clarendon Press. Grisone, Federico (1560), A newe booke containg the Arte of ryding, and breaking greate Horses, together withthe shapes and Figures of many and divers Kyndesof Byttes, mete to serve divers Mouthes. Very necessary for all Gentlemen, Servingmen, London. Grose, Francis (1801), Military Antiquities, London. Gutiarrez de las Vega, Luis (1582), A compedious Treatisem entitled De re military, containing principle orders to be observed in Martiall affaires, London. Hacket, Roger (1590), A Sermon needful for these times, Preached at Paules Crosse the 14. of Feb. 1590, London. Hale, John (1961), The Art of War and Renaissance England, Washington: Folger Library. M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 223 Bibliography and Further Reading 223 Hale, John (1983), Renaissance War Studies, London: The Hambledon Press. Hall, Edward (1548), The Union of the Two Noble and Illustrate Famelies of Lancastre and York, London. Halley, Janet E. (1999), Don’t: A Reader’s Guide to the Military Anti-Gay Policy, Durham, NC: Public Planet Books, Duke University Press. Hammer, Paul (2003), Elizabeth’s Wars; Society and Politics During the Reign of Elizabeth I, Basingstoke: Palgrave Macmillan. Hampton,William (1527), A Proclamation of Warre from the Lord of Hosts, or Endland’s warning by Israel’s ruin. Delivered in a Sermon at Paul’s Cross July the 23. 1626. Hancock, Brecken Rose (2004), ‘Roman or Revenger? The Definition and Distortion of Masculine Identity in Titus Andronicus’, Early Modern Literary Studies, Vol. 10.1, 1–25. Happé, Peter (1966), ‘The Vice 1350–1605’, PhD thesis, London University. Harrington, Alexander (2003), ‘War and William Shakespeare’, Dissent, Vol. 50.4, 89–91. Harris, Edmond (1588), A Sermon preached at Brocket Hall before the Right Worshipfull Sir John Brocket and other gentlemen there assembled fot the Tryning of Souldiers, London. Harward, Simon (1592), The Solace for the Souldier and Saylour, London. Hazlitt, Carew W. (ed.) (1874), Dodsley’s Old English Plays, London: Dodsley. Hawking, Stephen (1988), A Brief History of Time, London: Bantam. Hedlam Wells, R. (2000), Shakespeare on Masculinity, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. Hexham, Henry (1637), The Principles of the Art Militarie: Practised in the Warres of the United Netherlands. Presented by Figure, the Word of Command, and Demonstration, London. Higham, Robin (1972), A Guide to the Sources of British Military History, London: Routledge & Kegan Paul. Hillman, David and Mazzio, Carla (eds) (1997), The Body in Parts: Fantasies of Corporeality in Early Modern Europe, London: Routledge. Hogg, O. F. G. (1920), The Royal Arsenal: its Background, Origin and Subsequent History, London: Oxford University Press. Holderness, Graham (2002), Visual Shakespeare, Hatfield: Hertfordshire University Press. Holinshed, Raphael [1587] (1976), Chronicles of England, Scotland and Ireland, ed. Vernon F. Snow, 6 vols, New York: AMS Press. Hookham, Hilda (1962), Tamburlaine, the Conqueror, London: Hodder & Stoughton. Hopkins, Lisa (1996), ‘ “And shall I die and this unconquered?”: Marlowe’s Inverted Colonialism’, Early Modern Literary Studies, Vol. 2.2, 1.1–23. Hortman, Wilheim (2002), ‘Shakespeare on the Political Stage in the Twentieth Century’, in Stanley Wells and Sarah Stanton (eds), The M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 224 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 224 war and nation in the theatre of shakespeare Cambridge Companion to Shakespeare on Stage, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, pp. 212–29. Howard, Jean E. and Rackin, Phyllis (1997), Engendering a Nation: A Feminist Account of Shakespeare’s English Histories, London: Routledge. Huizinga, Johan (1984), Erasmus and the Age of Reformation, Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press. d’Hurault, Jaques, Sieur de Vieu (1595), Politicke, Moral, and Martiall Discourses, trans. Artur Golding, London. Hutjens, Linda A. (2004), ‘The Renaissance Cobbler: the Significance of Shoemaker and Cobbler Characters in Elizabethan Drama’, PhD thesis, University of Toronto. Ive, Paul (1589), The Practise of Fortification, Wherein is shewed the manner of Fortifying all sorts of situations, London. Jackson, Sir Barry (1953), ‘On Producing Henry VI’, Shakespeare Survey, Vol. 6, 40–52. Javitch, Daniel (2002), Baldassare Castiglione: The Book of the Courtier, New York: Norton. Jones, Martin (2000), Clash of Empires: Europe 1498–1560, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. Jones, Terry (1980), Chaucer’s Knight: the Portrait of a Medieval Mercenary, 2nd revised edition, London: Methuen. Jongue, Elbert of (1591), A Journal, or Brief Report of the Late Service in Britaigne, London. Jongue, Elbert of (1592), A Journall, Wherein is Sette Downe What Was Doone in Both Armies, trans E. A., London. Jongue, Elbert of (1600), The True and Perfect Declaration of the Mighty Army by Sea, London. Jorgensen, Paul A. (1950), ‘Moral Guidance and Religious Encouragement for the Elizabethan Soldier’, Huntingdon Library Quarterly, Vol. XIII, 241–59. Jorgensen, Paul A. (1956), Shakespeare’s Military World, Berkeley, CA: University of California Press. Judges, A. V. (1930), The Elizabethan Underworld, London: Routledge & Sons. Kaeuper, Richard W. (1988), War, Justice and Public Order, Oxford: Clarendon Press. Kahn, Coppélia (1981), Man’s Estate: Masculine Identity in Shakespeare, Berkeley and Los Angeles, CA: University of California Press. Kamps, Ivo (ed.) (1991), Shakespeare Left and Right, London; Routledge. Keegan, John (1993), A History of Warfare, London: Hutchinson. Kenny, Anthony (1983), Thomas More, Oxford: Oxford University Press. Kershaw, Alex (2006), The Few: The American Knights of the Air Who Risked Everything to Fight in the Battle of Britain, Cambridge, MA: Da Capo Press. M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 225 Bibliography and Further Reading 225 Klein, Bernard (2002), ‘ “Tale of iron wars”: Shakespeare and the Uncommon Soldier’ in Barbara Korte and Ralf Schneider (eds), War and the Cultural Construction of Identities in Britain, Amsterdam: Rodopi, pp. 93–107. Knowles, Ronald (2002), Shakespeare’s Arguments with History, Basingstoke: Palgrave Macmillan. Knox, Macgregor and Williamson, Murray (eds) (2001), The Dynamics of Military Revolution 1300–2050, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. Kocher, P. H. (1942), ‘Marlowe’s Art of War’, Studies in Philology, Vol. XXXIX, 207–25. Kohl, Ernst W. (1978), ‘The Principal Theological Thoughts in the Enchiridion Milits Christiani’, in R. De Molen (ed.), Essays on the Works of Erasmus, New Haven, CT: Yale University Press. Kott, Jan (1965), Shakespeare our Contemporary, London: Methuen. Kurtz, Martha A. (2003), ‘Tears and Masculinity in the History Plays: Shakespeare’s Henry VI’, in Jennifer C. Vaught and Lynne Dickson Bruckner (eds), Grief and Gender: 700–1700, Basingstoke: Palgrave Macmillan, pp. 163–76. Kyd, Thomas [1585] (1989), The Spanish Tragedy, ed. J. R. Mulryne, London: A. & C. Black. Kyd, Thomas [1591] (1874), Soliman and Perseda, in W. Carew Hazlitt (ed.), Dodsley’s Old English Plays, Vol. V. Langsam, Geoffrey (1951), Martial Books and Tudor Verse, New York: King’s Crown Press. Leech, John (1619), The Trayne Souldier. A Sermon preached before the worthy Society of the Captaynes and Gentlemen that exercise Armes in the Artillery Garden, at Saint Andrew-Undershaft in London, April 20 1619, London. Leighton, Alxander (1624), Specuum belli sacri: or the looking Glasse of the holy war, wherein is discovered the evil of war, the good of war, the guide of war. In the last of these I give a Scantling of the Christian tackticks, from the levying of the Souldier to the sounding of the Retrait, London. Lingham, John (1584), A true Relation of all English Captains as have been slaine in the Low Countries, together with those now living: as also of such as are fled to the enemy, London. Lodge, Thomas [1588] (1874), The Wounds of Civil War, in W. Carew Hazlitt (ed.), Dodsley’s Old English Plays, Vol. VII. Longhurst, Derek (1982), ‘ “Not for all time, but for an age”: An Approach to Shakespeare Studies’, in Peter Widdowson (ed.), Re-Reading English, London: Methuen. Low, Jennifer (2000), ‘Combat in “Those Proud Titles Thou Hast Won”: Sovereignty, Power and Combat in Shakespeare’s Second Tetralogy’, Comparative Drama, Vol. 34.3, 269–90. Low, Jennifer A. (2003), Manhood and the Duel: Masculinity in Early Modern Drams and Culture, Basingstoke: Palgrave Macmillan. M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 226 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 226 war and nation in the theatre of shakespeare Lupton, H. (1909), Life of John Colet, London: George Bell. Luther, Martin (1526), Ob Kriegsleute Auch in Seligem Stande Sein Können. Lyly, John [1584] (1897), Campaspe, in John Matthews Manley (ed.), Specimens of the Pre- Shakeperean Drama, London: Ginn. MacCaffrey, Wallace T. (1992), Elizabeth I: War and Politics, 1588–1603, Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press. Machiavelli, Niccolò [1521] (1560, 1573, 1588), The Arte of Warre, written first in Italia by Nicholas Machiavelli and set forth in Englishe by Peter Whitehorne, student of Graies Inne: with an addition of other like Marcialle feates and experiments, London. Machiavelli, Niccolò (1584), I Discorsi and Il Principe, printed by John Wolfe with the fictitious imprint ‘Palermo’, London. Machiaveli, Niccolò (1587), Il Libro dell’ Arte della Guella, printed by John Wolfe with the fictitious imprint ‘Palermo’, London. Machiavelli, Nicolò (1587), Istorie Fiorentine, printed by John Wolfe with the fictitious imprint ‘Piacenza’, London. Malcolmson, Christina (ed.) (2002), Debating Gender in Early Modern England 1500–1700, Basingstoke: Palgrave Macmillan. Malory, Sir Thomas, Caxton’s Malory (1983), ed. James W. Spisak, 2 vols, Berkeley and Los Angeles, CA: University of California Press. Malory, Sir Thomas (1998), Le Morte Darthur: The Winchester Manuscript, ed. Helen Cooper, Oxford: Oxford University Press. Mangan, Michael (2002), Staging Masculinities: History, Gender, Performance, Basingstoke: Palgrave Macmillan. Manning, B. (1957), ‘Neutrals and Neutralism in the English Civil War’, PhD thesis, Oxford University. Marlowe, Christopher [1590] (1967), Tamburlaine the Great, ed. John D. Jump, London: Edward Arnold. Marshall, Cynthia (2004), ‘The Shattering of the Self: Violence, Subjectivity and Early Modern Texts’, Comparative Drama, Vol. 38, 321–4. Marshall, Tristan (2000), Theatre and Empire: Great Britain on the London Stages under James VI and I, Manchester: Manchester University Press. Marx, Stephen (1992), ‘Shakespeare’s Pacifism’, Renaissance Quarterly, Vol. 45, 49–95. Massinger, Philip [1623] (1871), The Duke of Milan, ed. William Gifford, The Dramatic Works of Massinger and Ford, London: Moxon. Massinger, Philip [1624] (1871), The Bondman, ed. William Gifford, The Dramatic Works of Massinger and Ford, London. Massinger, Philip [1629] (1871), The Roman Actor (1629), ed. William Gifford, The Dramatic Works of Massinger and Ford, London. Massinger, Philip [1639] (1871), The Unnatural Combat, ed. William Gifford, The Dramatic Works of Massinger and Ford, London. Mattingly, Garret (1959), The Armada, Boston, MA: Houghton Mifflin. M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 227 Bibliography and Further Reading 227 McKellen, Ian (1996), William Shakespeare’s Richard III, Woodstock, NY: Overlook Press. McKisack, May (1959), The Fourteenth Century: 1307–1399, The Oxford History of England series, Oxford: Clarendon Press. Mendoza, Bernadino de (1597), Theorique and Practise of Warre, trans. Sir Edwarde Hoby, London. Melancon, Michael (1990), The Socialist Revolutionaries and the Russian Anti-War Movement 1914–17, Columbus, OH: Ohio State University Press. Meron, Theodor (1993), Henry’s Wars and Shakespeare’s Laws: Perspectives on the Law of War in the Later Middle Ages, Oxford: Clarendon Press. Meron, Theodor (1998), Bloody Constraint: War and Chivalry in Shakespeare, Oxford and New York: Oxford University Press. More, Thomas (1516), Utopia, ed. Edward Surtz SJ, New Haven, CT: Yale University Press. More, Thomas [1595] (1965), A Myrrour for English Souldiers; or an Anatomy of an Accomplished Man at Armes, Utopia, Harmondsworth: Penguin. Morrow, David J. (2006), ‘The Entrepreneurial Spirit and “The Life of the Poore”: Social Struggle in the Prose Fictions of Thomas Deloney’, Textual Practice, 20.3, 395–418. Morton, H. V. [1927] (2006), In Search of England, London: Methuen. Mulhern, Francis (1978), ‘Marxism in Literary Criticism’, New Left Review, Vol. 108, London. Mulhern, Francis (1979), The Moment of Scrutiny, London: New Left Books. Munday, Anthony (1600), Sir John Oldcastle, London. Munday, Anthony (1600), The Downfall of Robert, Earle of Huntington, London. Murrin, Micheal (1994), History and Warfare in Renaissance Epic, Chicago: University of Chicago Press. Naunton, Robert (1824), Fragmenta Regalia: Menoirs of Elizabeth, Her Court and Favourites, London. Neade, William (1625), The Double-Armed Man: By the New Invention: Briefly Shewing some Famous Exploits atchieved by our Brittish Bowmen, London, reproduced in facsimile with an introduction by Stephen V. Grancsay (1971), York, PA: George Shumway. Nicol, A. and J. (eds) (1927), Holinshed’s Chronicle as used in Shakespeare’s Plays, London: Dent. Nicoll, Allardyce (1923), A History of English Drama, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. Nolan, John S. (1997), Sir John Norreys and the Elizabethan Military World, Exeter: University of Exeter Press. Northumberland, Earle of (1640), Lawes and Ordinances of Warrs, Established for the better conduct of the Service in the Northern parts, London. M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 228 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 228 war and nation in the theatre of shakespeare Odell, G. C. D. (1920), Shakespeare from Betterton to Irving, London: Constable. Olin, John C. (ed.) (1965), Christian Humanism and the Reformation: Selected Writings of Desiderius Erasmus, New York: Harper & Row. Olivier, Richard (2002), Inspirational Leadership: Henry V and the Muse of Fire, Rolinson, NH: Spiro Press. Oman, Sir Charles (1937, repr. 1991), A History of the Art of War in the Sixteenth Century, London: Greenhill Books. Oulter, Walley Chamberlain (1818), A History of the Theatres of London, London: C. Chapple. Parker, Geoffrey (1988), The Military Revolution; Military Innovation and the Rise of the West, 1500–1800, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. Parker, Geoffrey (ed.) (1995), Warfare, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. Parker, Geoffrey (ed.) (2006), The Cambridge History of War, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. Patterson, Annabel (1989), Shakespeare and the Popular Voice, Oxford and Cambridge, MA: Basil Blackwell. Peele, George [1589] (1961), The Battle of Alcazar, in Frank S. Hook (ed.), The Dramatic Works of George Peele, New Haven, CT: Yale University Press. Pennington D. and Thomas K. (eds) (1978), Puritans and Revolutionaries: Essays in Seventeenth-Century Historiography Presented to Christopher Hill, Oxford: Clarendon. Peraldus, Gulielmus (c. 1236), Summa de Vitiis. Perodinus, Petrus (1553), Magni Tamerlanis Scytharum Imperatories Vita, London. Pettegree, Andrew (1986), Foreign Protestant Communities in Sixteenthcentury London, Oxford: Clarendon Press. Philips, J. E. (1970), Twentieth-Century Interpretations of Coriolanus, Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice-Hall. Philips, M. M. (1965), The Adages of Erasmus, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. Pittman, L. Monique (2006), ‘A Son Less than Kind: Iconography, Interpolation and Masculinity in Branagh’s Hamlet’, Early Modern Literary Studies, 11.3, 4.1–27. Pocock, J. G. A. (1975), The Machiavellian Moment, Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press. Poleman, John (1587), The Second Part of the Book of Battailes, Fought in our Age, London. Pollard, A. W. and Redgrave, G. R. (1926), A Short-Title Catalogue of Books Printed in England, Scotland and Ireland 1475–1640, London: The Bibliographical Society. M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 229 Bibliography and Further Reading 229 ‘Pragmatious, Mercurios’ (1647), The Levellers Levelled or The Independants Conspiracy to Root Out Monarchie, London. Preston, Thomas [1561] (1897), Cambises, King of Persia , ed. John Matthews Manly, Specimens of the Pre-Shaksperean Drama, London: Ginn. Proctor, Thomas (1578), Of the Knowledge and Conducte of Warres, Two Bookes, latelye written and sett Foorth, profitable for suche as delight in Hystorys, or Martyall Affayres and necessary for this present time, London. Pugliatti, Paola (1993), ‘The Strange Tongues of Henry V’, Yearbook of English Studies, Vol. 23. Pugliatti, Paola (2003), Beggary and Theatre in Early Modern England, Burlington, VT and Aldershot: Ashgate. R. S. (1696), A Briefe Treatise, To Proove the necessitie and excellance of the use of archerie, London. R. W. [Richard Ward?] (1642), The Anatomy of Warre, London. Raab, Felix (1964), The English Face of Machiavelli: A Changing Interpretation 1500–1700, London: Routledge & Kegan Paul. Raleigh, Walter (1458), A Discourse of Sea-Ports; Principally of the Port and Haven of Dover, London. Raleigh, Walter (1650), A Discourse of the Original and Fundamental Cause of Natural, Customary, Arbitary, Voluntary, and Necessary War, London. Rees, Laurence (2005), Auschwitz: the Nazis and the ‘Final Solution’, London: BBC Books. Reynolds, E. E. (1965), Thomas More and Erasmus, London: Longman. Rich, Barnabe (1574), A Right Excelent and Pleasant Dialogue, betweene Mercury and an English Souldier, London. Rich, Barnabe (1578), Allarme to England, foreshewing what perilles are procured when people live without regarde to Martiall Lawe, London. Rich, Barnabe [1581] (1959), His Farewell to Militarie Profession, ed. Thomas Cranfil, Austin, TX. Rose, Jaqueline (1993), Why War?, Oxford: Blackwell. Roy, Ian (1994), ‘Towards the Standing Army’, in David Chandler (ed.), The Oxford Illustrated History of the British Army, Oxford: Oxford University Press. Ruff, Julius R. (2001), Violence in Early Modern Europe 1500–1800, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. Rule, Margaret (1983), The Mary Rose: The Excavation and Raising of Henry VIII’s Flagship, London. Ruoff, James E. (1975), Macmillan’s Handbook of Elizabethan and Stuart Literature, London and Basingstoke: Macmillan. Sackville, Thomas and Thomas Norton [c. 1571] (1970), Gorboduc, or Ferrex and Porrex, ed. Irby B. Cauthen, London: Edward Arnold. Sanger, Ernest (1992), Englishmen at War: A Social History in Letters 1450–1900, Dover, NH: Sutton. M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 230 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 230 war and nation in the theatre of shakespeare Saunders, Corinne, Le Saux, Françoise and Thomas, Neil (eds) (2004), Writing War: Medieval Literary Responses to Warfare, Woodbridge: Boydell and Brewer. Scott, Jonathan (2000), England’s Troubles: Seventeenth-Century English Political Instability in European Context, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. Scott, Sir Sibbald (1868), The British Army: Origin, Programme and Equipment, London: Cassell. Scott, Thomas (1623), A Tongue-Combat Lately Happening Betweene Two Englishe Souldiers in the Tilt-Boat of Gravesend, the one going to Serve the King of Spaine, the other to Serve the States generall of the United Provinces. Wherein the Cause, Course and Contiuance of those Warres, is Debated and Declared, London. Seebohm, F. (1887), The Oxford Reformers, London: Longman. Segar, William [1602] (1975), Honor Militory and Civill, contained in foure Bookes, ed. Diane Bornstein, New York: Scholars Press. Shakespeare, William, The Oxford Shakespeare (1987), ed. Stanley Wells and Gary Taylor with John Jowett and William Montgomery, Oxford: Oxford University Press. Shakespeare, William [1608] (1976), Coriolanus, ed. Philip Brockbank, London: Methuen. Shakespeare, William, King Richard III [1592/3] (1981), ed. Antony Hammond, London: Methuen. Sharp, Buchanan (1980), In Contempt of All Authority, Berkeley, CA: California University Press. Sharpe, J. A. (1997), Early Modern England: A Social History 1550–1760, 2nd edition, New York: Arnold. Sheldon, E. K. (1963), ‘Sheridan’s Coriolanus’, Shakespeare Quarterly, Vol. XIV. Shepard, Alan (2002), Marlowe’s Soldiers: Rhetorics of Masculinity in the Age of the Armada, Burlington, VT and Aldershot: Ashgate. Shepard, Alan and P. J. Withington (2000), Communities in Early Modern England: Networks, Place, Rhetoric, Manchester: Manchester University Press. Shepperd, Eric (1926), A Short History of the British Army to 1914, London: Constable. Shirley, Henry (1638), The Martyr’d Souldier, London. Shirley, James [1642] (1833), The Country Captain, in William Gifford and Alexander Dyce (eds.), The Dramatic Works and Poems of James Shirley, London. Sidney, Sir Philip [1591] (1962), ‘Astrophel and Stella’, in The Poems of Sir Philip Sidney, ed. W. A. Ringler, Jr, Oxford: Oxford University Press. Silver, George (1599), Paradoxes of Defence, London. M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 231 Bibliography and Further Reading 231 Simons, John (1983), Realistic Romance: The Prose Fiction of Thomas Deloney, Contexts and Connections: Winchester Research Papers in the Humanities, Winchester: King Alfred’s College. Sinfield, Alan (1992), Faultlines, London: Oxford University Press. Sinfield, Alan (2006), Shakespeare, Authority, Sexuality: Unfinished Business in Cultural Materialism, New York and Abingdon: Routledge. Smail, R. C. (1958), ‘The Art of War’, in Austin Lane Poole (ed.), Medieval England, Oxford: Clarendon Press. Smith, B. R. (2000), Shakespeare and Masculinity, Oxford: Oxford University Press. Smith, Bruce R. (2001), ‘Shakespeare and Masculinity’, Renaissance Forum, Vol. 5.2. Smith, Thomas (1616?), The Arte of Gunnerie, London. Smith, Thomas (1660), The Arts of Gunnerie, London. Smythe, John [1590] (1964), Certain Discourses, ed. John Hale, New York: Cornell University Press. Smythe, John (1595), Instructions, Observations and Orders Mylitarie Requisite for all Chieftaines, Captains, and higher and lower men of charge and Officers to understand, knowe, and observe, London. Snyder, R. Claire (1999), Citizen-Soldiers and Manly Warriors: Military Service and Gender in the Civic Republican Tradition, Lanham, MD: Rowman & Littlefield. Spenser, Edmund (c. 1596, published 1633), A View of the Present State of Ireland, London; reprinted (1970), Oxford: Oxford University Press. Stockwood, John (1584), A very Fruitfull and necessarye sermon of the Destuction of Jerusalem, London. Stone, Lawrence (1967), The Crisis of the Aristocracy, London: Oxford University Press. Strype, John (ed.) (1924), Annals of the Reformation and Establishment of Religion in the Church of England during Queen Elizabeth’s Happy Reign, Oxford. Styward, Thomas (1581), The Pathwaie to Martiall Discipline, devided into two Bookes, verie necessarie for yong Souldiers, or for all such as loveth the profession of Armes, London. Sun Tzu (2005), The Art of War, Harmondsworth: Penguin. Sutcliffe, Matthew (1593), The Practice, Proceedings, And Lawes of Armee, London. Tallett, Frank (1977), War and Society in Early-Modern Europe, 1495–1715, London: Routledge. Taunton, Nina (1998), Watching the Watch: Surveillance of the Camp in Sixteenth-Century Discourses of War, Thomas Harriot Seminar Occasional Paper No. 26, Durham: University of Durham. M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 232 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 232 war and nation in the theatre of shakespeare Taunton, Nina (2001), 1590’s Drama and Militarism: Portrayals of War in Marlowe, Chapman and Shakespeare’s ‘Henry V’, Burlington, VT and Aldershot: Ashgate. Taunton, Nina (2001), ‘Night Watch: The Nocturnal Camp Scenes in Shakespeare’s Henry V and 1590s Militarism’, in Acts du colloque La Nuit chez Shakespeare et ses Contemporains: l’invisible présence, 23–24 Octobre 1998, Recherches Valenciennoises, Presses Universitaire de Valenciennes. Taunton, Nina (2001), ‘Camp Scenes and Generals; Shakespeare’s Henry V, and the State of the Art of War’, Shakespeare in Southern Africa, Vol. 13, 41–52. Tazón, Juan E. (2003), The Life and Times of Thomas Stukeley, (c. 1525–78), Burlington, VT and Aldershot: Ashgate. Tillyard, E. M. W. (1944), Shakespeare’s History Plays, London: Chatto & Windus. Trenchard, Thomas (1689), A Short History of Standing Armies in England, London. Trigg, Stephanie (ed.) (1990), Wynnere and Wastoure, Oxford: Oxford University Press. Trussell, Thomas (1619), The Souldier Pleading His Own Cause, London. Tute, Warren (1983), The True Glory, London: Centurion. Tyderman, Christopher (2006), God’s War: A New History of the Crusades, London: Allen Lane. Udall, John (1588), The True Remedie against Famine and Warres – Five Sermons, London. Vale, Juliet (1982), Edward III and Chivalry: Chivalric Society and its Context 1270–1350, Bury St Edmunds: Boydell Press. Vegetius, Flavius (1572), The Foure bookes of Flavius Vegetius Ranotus, brieflye contayninge a plaine forme, and perfect knowledge of Martiall Policye, feates of Chivalrie, and whatever pertayneth to warre. Translated out of Latine, into Englishe, by John Sadler, London. Von Clausewitz, Carl [1832] (1908), On War, London: Routledge & Kegan Paul. Walton, Clifford (1894), History of the British Standing Army, London: Harrison & Sons. Waltz, Kenneth, N. (2001), Man, the State and War, 2nd revised edition, New York: Columbia University Press. Watts, William or Thomas Roe (1632), The Swedish Discipline, Religious, Civil and Military, London. Webb, Henry, J. (1955), ‘Classical Histories and Elizabethan Soldiers’, Notes and Queries, Vol. 200, 468–9. Weimann, Robert (1996), Authority and Representation in Early Modern Discourse, ed. David Hillman, Baltimore, MD: Johns Hopkins University Press. M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 233 Bibliography and Further Reading 233 Wells, Robin Headlam (2002), Shakespeare on Masculinity, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. Wernham, Robert B. (1986), After the Armada: Elizabethan England and the Struggle for Western Europe, 1588–1595, Oxford: Clarendon. Whetstone, George (1585), The honorable reputation of a Souldier: With a Morall Report, of the Vertues, Offices, and (by abuse) the Disgrace of his profession, London. Whetstone, George [1586] (1973), The English Myrror, New York: Da Capo. White, Paul Whitfield (ed.) (2001–2), Marlowe, History and Sexuality: New Critical Essays on Christopher Marlowe, Comparative Drama, Vol. 35. 3–4, 472–5. White, Stephen (1979), Sir Edward Coke and ‘The Greivances of the Commonwealth’ 1621–1628, Chapel Hill, NC: University of North Carolina Press. Wickham, Glynne (1974), The Medieval Theatre, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. Willet, John (1964), Brecht on Theatre, London: Methuen. Williams, Andrew P. (2001), ‘The Image of Manhood in Early Modern Literature: Viewing the Male’, Renaissance Forum, Vol. 5.2. Williams, Roger (1618), The Actions of the Low Countries, London. Williams, Sir Roger (1972), The Works of Sir Roger Williams, ed. John X. Evans, Oxford: Clarendon Press. Wilson, Charles (1970), Queen Elizabeth and the Revolt of the Netherlands, London: Macmillan. Wilson Knight G. R. (1940), This Sceptered Isle, Oxford: Clarendon Press. Wilson, Robert [1588] (1874), The Three Lords and Three Ladies of London, in W. Carew Hazlitt (ed.), Dodsley’s Old English Plays, Vol. V. Wilson Knight, G. R. (1956), A Royal Propaganda, 1956 A Narrative Account of Work Devoted to the Cause of Great Britain During and After the Second World War, MS, BL, 11768.f.13. Wilson Knight, G. R. (1964) Shakespeare Production, London: Faber and Faber. Wise, Terence (1971), A Guide to Military Museums, Bracknell: Bellona. Woolf, G. and Wilson, Moorcroft J. (1982), Authors Take Sides on the Falklands, London: Woolf. Wrightson, Keith (1982), English Society, 1580–1680, London: Hutchinson. Yongar, William (1600), A Sermon Preached at Great Yarmouth upon the 13. of September 1599, London. M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 234 INDEX absolutism, 60, 84, 86–9, 96, 97 aeroplanes, first, 17 Alliterative Morte Arthure, The, 58, 161 Anabaptists, 67–8, 70 Anderson, Perry, 89 Aquinas, Thomas, 50, 61, 62, 71 Summa Theologica, 71–2 aristocracy, 86, 89, 90, 166 Aristotle, 42 The Politics, 71 armies, 14, 16, 56–7, 207–8 14th-cent., 56 Machiavelli’s ideas, 79–80 Renaissance, 76, 77, 78 Tudor/Stuart, 52, 53–4, 56–7, 76, 83–5, 88–98 modern, 98–100, 206, 208–9 mutinies, 87 overseas service, 84, 87 ranks, 99 tradition, 100–1 see also discipline; displays, military; recruitment; soldiers; training, military As You Like It, 36 Astrophel and Stella, 110 Aufhaltsame Aufstieg des Arturo Ui, Der, 111–13, 114, 115, 118–19 Augustine, Saint, 71 Bainton, Roland H., 62 Barnett, Correlli, 83–4 Barriffe, William Military Discipline, 83 Barthes, Roland, 33–4 Barwick, Humfrey, 93 Battle of Alcazar, The, 191–3 Beaumont, Francis, 199, 201 Beckett, Andy, 212n Belsey, Catherine, 35 Benjamin, Walter, 111 Bennett, A., and Royle, N. An Introduction to Literature, Criticism and Theory, 41–2 Benson, Frank, 26, 27 Benveniste, Emile, 35 Bernard, Richard The Bible-Battels, 67–9, 73n Bible, 63, 78 wars in, 58, 68 Boer Wars, 210 Bogdanov, Michael, 37 Bondman, The, 201 Bourke, Joanna The Second World War, 10 Brecht, Bertolt, 111–13, 114–15, 118–19 Breight, Curtis C., vii Surveillance, 37 Brewer’s Dictionaries, 29–30 Calvin, John, 61, 62 Cambises, King of Persia, 187–8 Campaspe, 189–90 Carlton, Charles, 138–9 Castiglione, Baldesar The Book of the Courtier, 8 Catholicism, 39 in The Gentle Craft, 168 in The Soldier, 67 and war, 62, 65–6 Cenotaph, 16, 41 Charles I, King, 70, 138–9, 204 addressed in The Bible-Battels, 68–9 and The Double-Armed Man, 95, 97, 98 Charles II, King, 100–1 Chaucer, Geoffrey The Knight’s Tale, 161 Cheltenham, 209–11 Cheyney, Edward, 85, 87 M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 235 Index chivalry, 52, 61, 82, 84, 89–91, 96, 150–1, 161, 199 Christianity, 13, 50–1, 58–63, 65–6, 70–2, 80 ‘Christian Soldier’, 59, 60, 61–2, 67–8, 69–70, 72 Gorduduc, 185–6 in The Martyr’d Souldier, 202–4 see also Catholicism; Protestantism Church, 13, 49–50, 52; see also Christianity Churchill, Winston, 18, 19, 134 The Second World War, 10 citizen-soldier, 14, 79–80, 92–3 citizenship, 80, 92–3 class, social, 165–6 aristocracy, 86, 89, 90, 166 Clayton, Gyles The Approoved Order of Martiall Discipline, 64–5 Clowes, William, 205n Cockle, M. J. D., vi A Bibliography of English Military Books up to 1642, vi, 40, 57, 78–9 Cockpit theatre, 199 Coldstream Guards, 101 Colet, John sermon preached, 1513, 38, 39, 49–50, 51–2, 54, 58, 61, 70, 71, 72, 88 Collins, Tim, 212n colonisation, 55, 97, 169 commemoration see memorials Coriolanus, 192, 194 Courtney, Richard, vii Shakespeare’s World of War, 37 Coventry, in WWII, 3, 6, 17, 18 Cromwell, Oliver, 70, 96, 97 Crusades, 59, 70, 195, 204 Cruso, John Military Instructions for the Cavalerie, 95–6 Cumberland, Duke of, 138 Dambusters, The (film), 21n De La Noue, François The Politicke and Militarie Discourses, 92 De Mendoza, Bernardino Theorique and Practise of Warre, 82 De Pisan, Christine The Boke of the Faytes of Armes and of Chyvalreye, 57 235 De Somogyi, Nick, vii Shakespeare’s Theatre of War, 37, 146, 178n Dekker, Thomas, 165, 174–7 O PER SE O, 212n Deloney, Thomas The Gentle Craft, vi, 8, 40, 161–77, 207 Derrida, Jacques, 33–4 Diana, Princess of Wales, funeral, 153n Digges, Thomas, 61, 82, 92 discipline, 15, 90–2, 97 displays, military, 11, 24, 77, 97–9, 198–9 Don Quixote, 199 Downfall of Robert, Earl of Huntington, The, 194–5 Dresden, bombing of, 18 Duke of Milan, The, 201 Edmondes, Sir Clement Observations upon the Five First Books of Caesar’s Commentaries, 82 Edward II, 130, 157 Elizabeth I, Queen, 67, 130, 173, 181, 182, 195 Elton, Ben The First Casualty, 211n English civil war, 53, 59, 69–70, 89 English Shakespeare Company, 44n Erasmus, Desiderius, 38, 39, 67, 70, 163 on Colet’s sermon, 49, 50–1 Colloquia, 60 Enchiridion Militis Christiani, 61–2 Institutio Principis Christiani, 59–60 Militaria, 59, 60, 124 Quera Pacis, 59–60 Essex riots, 16th-cent., 85 Eyre, Richard, 113, 115 Eyre, Simon, 163–4, 168, 174, 175–6 Famous Historye of the Life and Death of Captaine Thomas Stukeley, 191–3 feminism, 31, 32, 33 fief system, 82–3, 86 Fletcher, John, 141n, 201 Ford, John, 201 Francis, Stan, vii M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 236 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 236 war and nation in the theatre of shakespeare French wars, 49, 51, 52–3, 79, 84, 88, 161, 176, 177 Freud, Sigmund, 21n Garrard, William The Arte of Warre, 137–8 garrison towns, 99 Gates, Geoffrey, 91 gender, 14–17, 25, 33, 39, 96 in Richard III, 109–10 Gernon, Luke, 96–7 Globe Theatre, 35, 141n Gorbuduc, 182–6 Government Communications HQ, 210 Grancsay, Stephen V., 95 Greek theatre, 9 Greene, Robert, 165, 188–9 Greg, Walter, 191 gunpowder, 56, 93 Hale, John, vi, 62, 84 Hall, Edward, 128, 140n Hamlet, 25, 31, 139, 143–52 Hammond, Antony, 110, 117–18, 120–1, 128 Happé, Peter, 117–18 Harfleur, siege, 89, 135–9, 158, 172, 184 Hawking, Stephen, 32 Henry IV, 128, 134–5 Henry V, 37, 133–9, 175, 177, 209 film, 36, 111, 136 and The Knight of the Burning Pestle, 200 Henry V, King, 89, 177, 195 Henry VI, 119–20, 122–5, 129, 130 dates, 129–30 Henry VII, King, 52, 116, 128, 129, 201 Henry VIII (All is True), 116, 181 Henry VIII, King, 61, 89 and Colet, 39, 49, 50, 51–2, 58, 196 French wars, 52–3, 88 Herod, 139 Higham, Robert, 83 Hitler, Adolf, 5, 24 and Arturo Ui, 112, 114, 115 and Richard III, 40, 111, 113, 120, 129 Hobbes, Thomas, 98 Hoby, Sir Edward, 82 Hoess, Rudolf, 19 Holinshed, Raphael, 128, 137, 173 Homer, 9 Iliad, 41–2 Howard, J., and Rackin, P. Engendering a Nation, 128–9, 132 Hundred Years War, 56 Hutjens, Linda, 180 Il Pastor Fido, 201 Iliad, 41–2 Imperial War Museum, 10 individuality and subjectivity, 14–15, 33, 76–8 Iraq, 37, 212n Ireland Elizabeth’s campaigns, 53, 143 colonisation, 97 described, 1620s, 96–7 in Commonwealth, 97 in The Battle of Alcazar, 192–3 in Richard II, 130–1 Ive, Paul The Practise of Fortification, 158 James VI and I, King, 143, 181 Jew of Malta, The, 157 Jones, Terry Chaucer’s Knight, 178n Jorgensen, Paul Shakespeare’s Military World, vi, 37, 134 Julius Caesar and The Knight of the Burning Pestle, 200 Mark Antony, 112–13 just war, 33, 61–3, 65–6, 67–72, 82, 198 Kenny, Anthony, 61 King John, 131–3 King Lear, 143, 150, 152 Knight of the Burning Pestle, The, 198–200 knights, 56, 57, 59, 79, 90–1, 92, 161 Knights, L. C., 27, 30 Kyd, Thomas, ii, 196 language, 34–5 Leavis, F. R., 28 Levellers, 98 Leveller’s Levelled, The, 201 Life and Death of Jack Straw, The, 197–8 Lodge, Thomas, 188–9, 193–4 M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 237 Index Loncraine, Richard, 113 longbow, 89, 93–4 Looking Glass for London and England, A, 188–9 Low Countries, 53–4, 59, 67, 77 Luther, Martin, 61, 62 Lyly, John, 165, 189 Macbeth, 25, 143, 150, 152, 181 Machiavelli, Niccolò, 150–1 L’arte Della Guerra (The Arte of Warre), 57, 79–81 Discorsi, 79 Il Principe, 59–60, 79 Maid’s Tragedy, The, 201 Malory, Sir Thomas Le Morte d’Arthur, 161 Marlowe, Christopher, 160–1, 162, 163; see also play titles Martyr’d Souldier, The, 201–4 Marxism, 31, 32–3 masculinity, 14–16, 39, 90, 96–7, 170, 207–8, 210–11 in Campaspe, 189 in The Double-Armed Man, 94–5 in The Gentle Craft, 172–4 Henry V, 135 in Marlowe, 161 in Richard III, 109–10 Massinger, Philip, 200–1 McKellen, Ian, 113–14, 115, 116 medievalism, 84, 88, 89–96 fief system, 82–3, 86 in Othello, 151 memorials, 28, 41, 209, 210–11 Cenotaph, 16, 41 Memorial to the Women of World War II (sculpture), 16–17 Scottish National War Memorial, 212n Mendes, Sam, 117 Merchant of Venice, The, 25 Midlands Rising, 1607, 86 militarism, ideology of, 76–85 monarchy, 52, 99, 198 Morality Plays, 117–18, 183, 184 More, Sir Thomas, 38, 59, 61, 128 History of King Richard III, 118 Utopia, 60 Morrow, David, 170, 173 Morton, H. V., 4, 26–9 Moseley, Oswald, 114 Mother Courage, 114–15 Munday, Anthony, 195 237 Nashe, Thomas, 165 nation, 4, 12, 163, 170, 206–7 national identity, 11, 13–14, 20, 39, 168–9 nationalism, 14 Neade, William, 97, 98 The Double-Armed Man, 76, 94–6, 159–60 New Model Army, 70, 97, 100–1 New Standing Army, 101 Newstok, Scott, 37 Nietzsche, Friedrich, ii, 42 Norton, Thomas, 182 Olin, John C., 59–60 Olivier, Laurence Henry V, 36, 134, 136 Richard III, 111 Othello, 143, 150, 151–2 Oulter, W. C., 30 Owen, Wilfred, 41 Oxfordshire rebellion, 1596, 85–6 pacifism, 54, 59, 60, 61–2, 67, 70–1 Palmerin of England, 199 Parker, Geoffrey, 55 Peace, Raymond, 3–4, 5–7, 11–14, 17–18, 19, 206, 211 death, 42–3 Peace, Rosalind, 3, 6 Peele, George, 173, 191–2 Peraldus, Gulielmus, 96 Perkin Warbeck, 201 Petition of Right, 1628, 87 pilgrimage, 26–9, 41 Pinochet, General, 212n pity, 41, 42, 157, 209, 210 Pocock, J. G. A., 80 Poland, 180n Poleman, John, 192 politics, 31–3, 77, 78 Portillo, Michael, 100 Preston, Thomas, 187 Protestantism, 39, 50, 53, 59, 168 in Ireland, 97 warfare, 65–8, 84 Pugliatti, Paola, vii Putney Debates, 98 Raab, Felix The English Face of Machiavelli, 79 M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 238 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 238 war and nation in the theatre of shakespeare RAF, 211 Battle of Britain, 18, 19 Bomber Command, 18–19 Cranwell, 11 films, 9–10, 19 in WWII, 3–4, 6–7, 17–19, 42–3, 206 recruitment, 54, 56, 76, 85, 87 conscription, 14, 100 fief system, 82–3, 86 militia system, 83–4 pressing, 85, 87 Rees, Laurence, 19 Reformation, 39, 58, 59, 61, 65, 67, 70, 177 religion, 13, 65; see also Christianity Remembrance Sunday, 16, 211 Renaissance, 78 army, 76, 77 drama, 31, 32, 34–5 warfare, 55, 62, 71 Rich, Barnabe, 57, 90, 91, 109 Richard II, 130–1 Richard II, King, 198 Richard III, 40, 109–22, 125–9, 139, 159 compared with King John, 132 end, 116, 121–2, 125–9, 132 Eyre’s production, 113, 115 film, McKellen’s, 113–14 film, Olivier’s, 111, 113 and The Knight of the Burning Pestle, 200 as tragedy, 120 Richard III, King, 122, 195 Richards, I. A., 28 Riot Act, 1411, 85 rioting, 16–17th-cent., 85–7 Roman Actor, The, 201 Rome, ancient, 29, 65, 80, 81 military writers, 102n Roy, Ian, 54 Royal Irish Regiment, 212n Royal National Theatre, 113 Royal Shakespeare Company, 117 Ruoff, James E., 141n, 165 Rupert, Prince, 138 Russia, in WWI, 212 ‘S., R.’, 94 Sackville, Thomas, 182 sacrifice, 42, 209, 211 School for Scandal, The, 25 Scotland 14th-cent. wars, 56 Henry VIII campaigns, 53 Cromwell in, 97 flying over, 6 military training, 211n in The Gentle Craft, 172 in Perkin Warbeck, 201 Scott, James, 210 Scott, Thomas A Tongue Combat, 66–7 Scottish National War Memorial, 212n Second Part of the Booke of Battailes, 192 Seebohm, Frederic, 51–2 self-mutilation, 208 sexuality see gender; masculinity Shakespeare, William, 5, 181–2, 207 criticism of plays, 30–5 history plays, dates, 129–30 ‘industry’, 26–9 and The Knight of the Burning Pestle, 199–200 representation of war, 28–9, 35–9, 40, 54, 204 see also play titles Shakespeare Memorial Theatre, Stratford, 5, 25 Sharp, Buchanan, 86, 87 Shepard, Alan, vii Marlowe’s Soldiers, 37, 160–1 Sheppard, Eric, 83 Sher, Antony, 113, 117 Sheridan, Richard Brinsley, 25 Shirley, Henry, 201 Shirley, James, 201 shoemakers, 162, 163–7, 169–71, 173–7 Shoemaker’s Holiday, The, 161, 165, 174–7 Sidney, Sir Philip, 110, 165 Simons, John, 174 Smail, R. C., 89 Smallwood, R. L., 174–5, 176 Smith, Bruce R. Shakespeare and Masculinity, 37 Smith, Thomas, 158 Smythe, John, 103n Certain Discourses, 62–4 Soldier Pleading His Own Cause, The, 65 soldiers, 56, 207–8 ‘Abandoned, The’, 209 M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 239 Index ‘Christian Soldier’, 59, 60, 61–2, 67–8, 69–70, 72 citizen-soldier, 14, 79–80, 92–3 ex-, 208, 209 individual, 76 mercenaries, 53, 56, 79 see also armies; knights Soliman and Perseda, ii, 195–6 Spain, 39, 53–4, 55, 88 Spanish Armada, 54, 168, 191, 193, 196, 212 Spanish Tragedy, The, 196 Spenser, Edmund, 165 The Faerie Queene, 8 A View of the Present State of Ireland, 97 Stratford-upon-Avon, 26–8 before WWI, 26 in 1920s, 4 in WWII, 4–5, 7, 13, 14, 17, 24, 25, 36 theatres, 5, 25, 36, 117 today, 26 Straw, Jack, 197 structuralism, 30, 33–4 Stukeley, Thomas, 173, 191–3 Styward, Thomas The Pathwaie to Martial Discipline, 81, 94 surgeons, 196 Sweden, 57 Tamburlaine the Great, 110–11, 135, 157–60 Taming of the Shrew, The, 25 Taunton, Nina, vii Drama and Militarism, 37 taxation, 55, 87, 161, 197, 198 Taylor, G., 129 Tazòn, Juan, 191 technology, 15, 17, 18, 53, 56, 81–2, 89 Temple Grafton, Warwickshire, 5, 13, 19, 43, 206 Tennyson, Alfred ‘The Charge of the Light Brigade’, 41 Territorial Army, 211n theatre/s, 24–5, 29, 30, 78, 190, 207 Greek, 9 Renaissance, 34–5, 141n Globe, 35, 141n Cockpit, 199 18–19th cent., 30 Stratford-upon-Avon, 5, 25, 36, 117 239 Thirty Years War, 54 Three Lords and Three Ladies of London, The, 190–1 Tillyard, E. M. W., 27, 30, 116 training, military, 92–3, 98–9, 207–8 Aristotle on, 71 discipline, 90–2, 97 imposition of, 85, 86–7 for young people today, 211n Trussell, Thomas The Soldier Pleading His Own Cause, 65–6, 93 Tyderman, Christopher, 70–1 uniform, 14–15, 17–18 Vegetius, Flavius, 83 Villiers, George, 201 ‘W., R.’ The Anatomy of Warre, 69–70 Warbeck, Perkin, 201 weapons, 56, 89, 93–7 Webb, Henry, 58 Wells, Stanley, 129, 174–5, 176 Wertenbaker, Timberlake, ii Western Rising, 1626–32, 86 Whitehorne, Peter, 79 The Arte of Warre, 57, 79–81, 91 Whittington, Sir Richard, 179n Wickham, Glynne, 90 Wilde, Oscar, ii Williams, Ronald, 3–4, 5, 7, 11, 13–14, 17–18, 19, 206, 211 death, 43 Wilson, Edward, 210–11 Wilson, Robert, 190 Wilson Knight, G. R., 27, 30, 115 This Sceptred Isle, 25 women, 15–17, 25, 110 feminism, 31, 32, 33 World at War, The (TV), 10 World War I, 211n, 212n World War II, 3–7, 9, 11, 13–14, 17–19, 24, 206 films, 9–10 histories, 10 ‘Keep it dark’, 29–30 memorials, 16–17, 28, 41, 211 Wounds of Civil War, The, 193–4 Wrightson, Keith, 86 Wynnere and Wastoure, 58, 161 M1004 BARKER TEXT M/UP.qxd 26/9/07 8:38 am Page 240 E-Book Information
