=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Louis Moreau Gottschalk - Wikipedia]
January 26, 1865. [9] In May 1865, Gottschalk was mentioned in a San Francisco newspaper as having "travelled 95,000 miles by rail and given 1,000 concerts". However, he was forced to leave the United States later that year because of an alleged affair with a student at the Oakland Female Seminary in Oakland, California.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Louis_Moreau_Gottschalk

[Louis Moreau Gottschalk - Loeb Jewish Portrait Database]
In 1865, Gottschalk was at the center of a scandal, accused of having had an affair with a young student at the Oakland Female Seminary. As a result, he fled the United States and never returned.
URL: https://loebjewishportraits.com/biography/louis-moreau-gottschalk/

[Louis Moreau Gottschalk - New World Encyclopedia]
Gottschalk's music was extremely popular during his lifetime, and his earliest compositions created a sensation in Europe. Early pieces like Media:Le Bananier and Bamboula were based on Gottschalk's memories of the music he heard during his youth in Louisiana, and were regarded as magnificently exotic by the critics of the time. Throughout his life...
URL: https://www.newworldencyclopedia.org/entry/Louis_Moreau_Gottschalk

[Louis Moreau Gottschalk - Academic Dictionaries and Encyclopedias]
In 1865, he was forced to leave the United States because of a scandalous affair with a student at the Oakland Female Seminary. Gottschalk chose to travel to South America, where he continued to give frequent concerts.
URL: https://en-academic.com/dic.nsf/enwiki/165593

[Louis Gottschailk, Pianist born - African American Registry]
In September 1865, his career took a sharp turn when Gottschalk had to leave the United States after a scandal about his relationship with a student at Oakland Female Seminary. Gottschalk left the country for what would become his last tour. During this time, he traveled to Santiago de Chile, Buenos Aires, and Rio de Janeiro.
URL: https://aaregistry.org/story/louis-gottschailk-pianist-born/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Louis Moreau Gottschalk - Wikipedia] ---
Louis Moreau Gottschalk (May 8, 1829 – December 18, 1869) was an American composer, pianist, and virtuoso performer of his own romantic piano works.  He spent most of his working career outside the United States.


--- [Louis Moreau Gottschalk - Loeb Jewish Portrait Database] ---
One of the great pianists of the mid-nineteenth century and major early American composer, Louis Moreau Gottschalk lived a peripatetic life, leaving and returning and finally leaving the United States for good. He was born in New Orleans to Edward Gottschalk and Marie Françoise Aimée Gottschalk. His father was a Jewish businessman originally from London, his mother was French Creole. Of his six brothers and sisters, five were by his father’s mistress. Gottschalk was a piano prodigy and made his formal debut in 1840 at the St. Charles Hotel. Two years later, his father took him to Europe to complete his training, however the thirteen-year-old Gottschalk was rejected from the Paris Conservatoire because he was American, a country apparently too barbaric to produce great musicians. He nevertheless managed to secure private instruction, and his early compositions, like Bamboula (Danse Des Nègres) and La Savane embraced that very Americanness, playing up exotic New World fantasies. His concerts were huge successes, with Chopin and Liszt both avowed fans. In 1853, Gottschalk returned to the United States, travelling and concertizing across the country and through Cuba and Puerto Rico, where he absorbed new musical influences that would appear in subsequent compositions. Though Gottschalk continued to tour constantly, he made his home in New York, where he found himself at the center of American cultural life. There he had a relationship with actress, writer, and “Queen of Bohemia” Ada Clare, with whom he had a child out of wedlock. By the end of the decade, he had established himself as the best-known American pianist. Although Gottschalk always played up his Creole roots, he sided with the Union in the Civil War. In 1865, Gottschalk was at the center of a scandal, accused of having had an affair with a young student at the Oakland Female Seminary. As a result, he fled the United States and never returned. He passed away in South America on a concert tour, contracting yellow fever in Brazil, collapsing in the middle of a concert. His remains were returned to the United States and buried in Green-Wood Cemetery in Brooklyn, his grave marked with a marble monument, atop which sits the Angel of Music. Photo Credit: The Historic New Orleans Collection Accession Number: 2018.0069.2


--- [Louis Moreau Gottschalk - New World Encyclopedia] ---
Louis Moreau Gottschalk Louis Moreau Gottschalk (May 8, 1829 – December 18, 1869) was an American composer and pianist, best known as a virtuoso performer of his own romantic piano music pieces. Though he only lived for forty years, he became the most prominent American composer and pianist of his time. His biographer, Frederick Starr, an American anthropologist, attested Gottschalk had achieved an astonishing list of "firsts." Starr wrote, "He was the first American composer to be hailed in Europe, the first American piano virtuoso to be acclaimed by Frédéric Chopin, (Chopin predicted that he would become the 'king of pianists'), the first American composer to erase the hard line dividing 'serious' and 'popular' genres, the first to introduce American themes into European classical music, the first Pan-American artist in any field and was among the first American artists to champion the causes of abolitionism, public education, and popular democracy." Perhaps his greatest contribution to American music was incorporating the syncopated rhythmic elements of Caribbean and Latin folk music into his own. As Frederick Starr pointed out, these rhythmic elements "anticipate ragtime and jazz by a half century." It could be said that jazz is a progeny, at least in terms of its rhythmic characteristics, of Gottschalk's Latin-influenced compositions. Gottschalk understood the emotional and spiritual aspects of music, and echoed St. Augustine's views, when he stated, "Music is a thing eminently sensuous. Certain combinations move us, not because they are ingenious, but because they affect our nervous system in a certain way." Like Augustine, Gottschalk viewed music as a vehicle that could touch emotions and affect consciousness in profound ways. Biography Gottschalk was born to a Jewish businessman from London and a white Creole Haitian in New Orleans, where he was exposed to a wide variety of musical traditions. His family lived for a time in a tiny cottage at Royal & Esplanade in the Vieux Carré, and Louis subsequently moved in with relatives on 518 Conti Street. His Grandmother Buslé and his nurse Sally were both natives of Saint-Domingue. He began his piano studies when he was four years old and was soon recognized as a wunderkind by the New Orleans bourgeois establishment. In 1840, he gave his informal public debut at the new St. Charles Hotel. Only two years later, he left the United States and sailed to Europe, realizing that a European classical music training would be required to fulfill his musical ambitions. The Conservatoire de Paris, however, initially rejected his application, and Gottschalk only gradually gained access to the musical establishment through friends of his family. It was while in Europe that musical luminaries such as Frederic Chopin and Hector Berlioz recognized Gottschalk's prodigious gifts. Beriloz became a mentor to the young American's first compositions for orchestra and would proclaim that Gottschalk was "one of a very small number who possess all the different elements of a consummate pianist---all the faculties which surround him with an irrestible prestige and give him a sovereign power." Upon his return to the United States in 1853, Gottschalk traveled extensively making a lengthy trip to Cuba in 1854, marking the beginning of a series of trips to Central and South America. By the 1860s, Gottschalk had established himself as the foremost pianist in the New World. Gottschalk's fame and public appeal was such that P.T. Barnum offered him the princely fee of $20,000 to tour under his management, but the young pianist/composer declined, preferring to tour on his own, often presenting concerts in rural settings such as farms or mining camps. Although born in New Orleans, he was a supporter of the Union cause during the American Civil War, and even though he returned to his native city only occasionally for concerts, he always introduced himself as a New Orleanian. In 1865, he was forced to leave the United States as the result of what was regarded as a scandalous affair with a student at the Oakland Female Seminary. He chose to again travel to South America, where he continued to give frequent concerts. During one of these concerts, in Rio de Janeiro on November 24, 1869, he collapsed, the result of a burst appendix. Much was made of the fact that, just before his collapse, he had finished playing his romantic piece Morte!! (interpreted as "she is dead"), although the actual collapse occurred just as he started to play his celebrated piece Tremolo. Gottschalk never recovered from the collapse and three weeks later, on December 18, 1869, died at his hotel in Tijuca, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. His remains were subsequently returned to the United States and are presently interred at the Green-Wood Cemetery in Brooklyn, New York. His burial spot was originally marked by a magnificent monument, which has eroded considerably over the years, and the Green-Wood is actively seeking donations to restore the monument, the cost of which they estimate at $75,000.[1] Works Gottschalk's music was extremely popular during his lifetime, and his earliest compositions created a sensation in Europe. Early pieces like Media:Le Bananier and Bamboula were based on Gottschalk's memories of the music he heard during his youth in Louisiana, and were regarded as magnificently exotic by the critics of the time. Throughout his life, Gottschalk used a variety of non-traditional, ethnically derived material for many of his compositions. Notable examples include the Souvenir de Porto Rico and The Banjo, Grotesque Fantasie. These ethnic and national-character pieces are regarded as his finest and most important work in that they fuse folk and traditional elements in masterful ways. His most famous orchestral composition, the Symphonie romantique, Noche en los Tropicos, is also a brilliant synthesis of European and South American melodic and rhythmic characteristics. Gottschalk was also very successful as a composer of more traditional "salon music." Sentimental pieces like The Dying Poet were favorites of countless (mostly female) amateur pianists. His most famous work in this vein is The Last Hope, Religious Meditation, which enjoyed a spectacular success during Gottschalk's life, and for several decades afterward. Most critics regard Gottschalk's salon compositions as dated, musically shallow, and insignificant in comparison with his more distinctive American ethnic music. By the beginning of the twentieth century, his music had fallen out of favor and was largely neglected in the first half of the century. However after World War II, there was an upsurge of interest in his works as musicians, critics, and the general public rediscovered the innovation and sophistication of his unique musical voice. A Gottschalk revival took place in the decades after World War II as pianists and conductors in the United States became infatuated once again with the music of this American original. Not surprisingly, the American Ballet Theater of New York, commissioned composer Jack Elliot to arrange several of Gottschalk's important works for the dance stage. These works, with their infectious dance rhythms and ebullient dispositions, remain a staple of ABT's repertory. Listening - A Night in the Tropics, The Hot Springs Music Festival Orchestra, NAXOS CD 8.559036 Notes - ↑ The Green-Wood Cemetary, Louis Moreau Gottschalk. ReferencesISBN links support NWE through referral fees - Ewen, David. American Composers: A Biographical Dictionary. New York: G.P. Putnam's Sons, 1982. - Loggins, Vernon. Where the Word Ends: The Life of Louis Moreau Gottschalk. Baton Rouge: Louisiana State University Press, 1958. - Perone, James, E. Louis Moreau Gottschalk: A Bio-Bliography. Westport, Conn: Greenwood Press, 2002. ISBN 0-313-31824-7 - Starr, S. Frederick. Bamboula!: The Life and Times of Louis Moreau Gottschalk. New York: Oxford University Press, 1995. ISBN 0-195-07237-5 External links All links retrieved March 15, 2025. - Louis Moreau Gottschalk. - The Dying Poet, Op.110 (Gottschalk, Louis Moreau), IMSLP. - Kunst der Fuge: Louis Moreau Gottschalk—MIDI files (piano works). Credits New World Encyclopedia writers and editors rewrote and completed the Wikipedia article in accordance with New World Encyclopedia standards. This article abides by terms of the Creative Commons CC-by-sa 3.0 License (CC-by-sa), which may be used and disseminated with proper attribution. Credit is due under the terms of this license that can reference both the New World Encyclopedia contributors and the selfless volunteer contributors of the Wikimedia Foundation. To cite this article click here for a list of acceptable citing formats.The history of earlier contributions by wikipedians is accessible to researchers here: The history of this article since it was imported to New World Encyclopedia: Note: Some restrictions may apply to use of individual images which are separately licensed.


--- [Louis Moreau Gottschalk - Academic Dictionaries and Encyclopedias] ---
- Louis Moreau Gottschalk Louis Moreau Gottschalk ( May 8 ,1829 –December 18 ,1869 ) was an Americancomposer andpianist , best known as avirtuoso performer of his own romanticpiano pieces. Although he is regarded as an American composer and musician, he spent most of his working career outside of the United States.Biography Gottschalk was born to a Jewish businessman from London and a whiteHaiti an Creole inNew Orleans , where he was exposed to a wide variety of musical traditions. He had six brothers and sisters. His family lived for a time in a tiny cottage at Royal and Esplanade in theVieux Carré . Louis later moved in with relatives at 518 Conti Street; his Grandmother Buslé and his nurse Sally had both been born inSaint-Domingue (later known asHaiti ). Gottschalk played thepiano from an early age and was soon recognized as awunderkind by the New Orleansbourgeois establishment. In 1840, he gave his informal public debut at the new St. Charles Hotel.Only two years later at the age of 13, Gottschalk left the United States and sailed toEurope , as he and his father realized a classical training was required to fulfill hismusic al ambitions. The Paris Conservatoire, however, initially rejected his application on the grounds of his nationality. His examiner commented that "America is a country of steam engines". Gottschalk gradually gained access to the musical establishment through family friends.After Gottschalk returned to the United States in 1853, he traveled extensively; a lengthy trip to Cuba in 1854 marking the beginning of a series of trips to Central andSouth America . By the 1860s, Gottschalk had established himself as the foremost pianist in theNew World . Although born and reared inNew Orleans , he was a supporter of the Union cause during theAmerican Civil War . He returned to his native city only occasionally for concerts, but Gottschalk always introduced himself as a New Orleans native. In 1865, he was forced to leave the United States because of a scandalous affair with a student at theOakland Female Seminary .Gottschalk chose to travel to South America, where he continued to give frequent concerts. During one of these concerts, in Rio de Janeiro on November 24, 1869, he collapsed from having contractedmalaria . [Lowens/Starr, Grove online] Just before his collapse, he had finished playing his romantic piece "Morte!!" (interpreted as "she is dead"), although the actual collapse occurred just as he started to play his celebrated piece "Tremolo".Gottschalk never recovered from the collapse. Three weeks later, on December 18, 1869, at the age of 40, he died at his hotel in Tijuca , Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, probably from an overdose of quinine. [Lowens/Starr, Grove online] In 1870 his remains were returned to the United States and were interred at theGreen-Wood Cemetery inBrooklyn, New York .His burial spot was originally marked by a magnificent monument, which has eroded over the years. The Green-Wood is seeking donations to restore the monument in his honor, the cost of which they estimate at $75,000 (http://www.green-wood.com/pdf/gottschalkp6to7.pdf). His grand-nephew Louis Ferdinand Gottschalk was a notable composer of silent film andmusical theatre scores.Works Gottschalk's music was very popular during his lifetime, and his earliest compositions created a sensation in Europe. Early pieces like " Le Bananier " and"Bamboula" were based on Gottschalk's memories of the music he heard during his youth in Louisiana. In this context, some of Gottschalk's work, such as the 13-minuteopera "Escenas campestres", retains a wonderfully innocent sweetness and charm.Recordings Various pianists later recorded his piano music. The first important recordings of his orchestral music, including the symphony "A Night in the Tropics", were made for Vanguard Records byMaurice Abravanel and theUtah Symphony Orchestra .Vox Records issued a multi-disc collection of his music, which was later reissued on CD.References * Irving Lowens/S. Frederick Starr: "Louis Moreau Gottschalk", Grove Music Online, ed. L. Macy (Accessed June 28, 2007), [http://www.grovemusic.com (subscription access)] Notes External links * [http://www.louismoreaugottschalk.com Louis Moreau Gottschalk, a dedicated website] * [http://w3.rz-berlin.mpg.de/cmp/gottschalk.html Biographical sketch] * [http://www.nysun.com/article/33974 Adam Kirsch, "Diary of a 'One-Man Grateful Dead'"] , "The New York Sun ", June 7, 2006. *Listening * [http://artofthestates.org/cgi-bin/composer.pl?comp=181 Art of the States: Louis Moreau Gottschalk] six works by the composer * Kunst der Fuge: [http://www.kunstderfuge.com/gottschalk.htm Louis Moreau Gottschalk - MIDI files (piano works)] Wikimedia Foundation. 2010.


--- [Louis Gottschailk, Pianist born - African American Registry] ---
Louis Gottschalk *Louis Gottschalk was born on this date in 1829. He was a white-American classical pianist and educator. Born in New Orleans in 1829, Louis Moreau Gottschalk grew up in a neighborhood of Creole music with African Caribbean rhythms and melodious folk songs. These would later become a characteristic ingredient of racial and cultural intersectionality in much of his music. The house where he was born still stands at the southwest corner of Esplanade and Royal Streets in New Orleans. His musical career started in this diverse place, eventually leading to international fame. Known as the Chopin of Creole, he was exposed to music through his Grandmother Buslé and his nurse Sally, both Black natives of Saint-Domingue. Gottschalk's informal début was at the (then) new St. Charles Hotel in 1840, where he became an instant success. In 1842, he left the United States for Europe for the classical training required to achieve his musical goals. While such professionalism in a 13-year-old typically results from the parents' ambitions, Gottschalk's letters show that he was the driving force. In a letter to his mother, he wrote, "I expect that in two years or perhaps less, I shall be earning a living on my own." Gottschalk had a bumpy start in Europe when the Conservatoire in Paris rejected his application. He then studied privately with Karl Hallé, Camille-Marie Stamaty, and Pierre Malenden (the latter teaching composition). In the years to follow, he built a first career as a pianist virtuoso, prompting Frédéric Chopin to predict that Gottschalk would soon become one of the foremost pianists of the century. Despite his success in Europe, Gottschalk was skeptical of European musical life. He ridiculed the cult of the genius and the grotesque idiosyncrasies developed by some of his fellow white-European pianists. In 1853, Gottschalk returned to the United States from an environment he regarded as being dominated by egotism and vanity. Re-adjusting to American culture seems to have been accompanied by some problems in the years to come; he would travel extensively throughout the United States and Canada to earn a living. In 1854, he also spent an extensive period in Cuba, and his musical interest gradually shifted towards Central and South America. In the 1860s, he became a significant figure in American musical life. In September 1865, his career took a sharp turn when Gottschalk had to leave the United States after a scandal about his relationship with a student at Oakland Female Seminary. Gottschalk left the country for what would become his last tour. During this time, he traveled to Santiago de Chile, Buenos Aires, and Rio de Janeiro. His concerts were tremendously successful across South America and sometimes took the form of "monster concerts" involving up to 650 performers. Louis Moreau Gottschalk died on December 18, 1869, in Tijuca (Brazil), three weeks after collapsing during one of his concerts. (c) 2001 by Axel Gelfert Glenn Gould - The Ecstasy and Tragedy of Genius. Peter F. Ostwald. W. W. Norton & Company. 1997. ISBN 0393040771 (hardcover), 0393318478 (paperback).
