=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Morey's Piers' Flitzer Is Closing - American Coaster ...]
Sep 12, 2018 · The surfer-themed Flitzer roller coaster on Morey's Surfside Pier at the Wildwood (New Jersey) Boardwalk has thrilled riders for 35 years. The last chance to ride it will be Sunday, September 23, 2018.
URL: https://www.aceonline.org/news/424355/Moreys-Piers-Flitzer-Is-Closing.htm

[A 35-year-old roller coaster at the Jersey Shore is about to ...]
Sep 13, 2018 · A longtime attraction in Wildwood will soon be closing for good. Morey’s Pier announced Tuesday it would be closing the Flitzer Roller Coaster and having a farewell celebration centering around...
URL: https://www.nj.com/cape-may-county/2018/09/flitzer_roller_coaster_final_ride.html

[Decision to retire the Flitzer outlined in letter from Morey's Piers]
Sep 12, 2018 — Morey's Piers announced its decision to retire the popular Flitzer roller coaster (but not before honoring it with a farewell party on September 23).
URL: https://wildwood365.blogspot.com/2018/09/decision-to-retire-flitzer-outlined-in.html

[Flitzer Farewell: The Wildwoods Say Goodbye to Iconic Ride]
Sep 21, 2018 · New Jersey Flitzer Farewell: The Wildwoods Say Goodbye to Iconic Ride The 35-year-old roller coaster will retire officially on September 30.
URL: https://www.nbcphiladelphia.com/news/local/flitzer-farewell-amidst-safety-concerns-wildwood-beach-says-goodbye-to-iconic-ride/193406/

[Flitzer Surfside Pier Retirement Month Year Revealed]
Feb 23, 2023 — Kelly Slater announces his retirement date in a bombshell interview, marking the end of an era in professional surfing history.
URL: https://beachgrit.com/2023/02/in-bombshell-interview-quinquagenarian-kelly-slater-officially-announces-date-and-time-of-retirement/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Morey's Piers' Flitzer Is Closing - American Coaster ...] ---
Morey's Piers' Flitzer Is Closing Wednesday, September 12, 2018 (0 Comments) Posted by: Rus Ozana The surfer-themed Flitzer roller coaster on Morey's Surfside Pier at the Wildwood (New Jersey) Boardwalk has thrilled riders for 35 years. The last chance to ride it will be Sunday, September 23, 2018. On that date, Flitzer will make its last rounds from 1:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m. Rides on Flitzer will be free (one per guest!) for all patrons. Flitzer was installed by Zierer, a German roller coaster manufacturer, in 1983. It was one of 10 Flitzer roller coasters across North America. With the elimination of the Morey's Piers coaster, the last remaining Flitzer in the United States is located on Jenkinson's Boardwalk in Point Pleasant, New Jersey. Flitzer has racked up more than 4 million rides during its 35-year run. The pier is hosting an 80s-themed event for the final rides. Guests who are dressed in 80s attire will be eligible to win a 2019 Morey's Piers season pass. No announcement was made as to what will replace Flitzer. Photo: Michael Horwood. View full-sized image. Photo: Michael Horwood. View full-sized image. Photo: Coaster Studios/YouTube. View full-sized image. |


--- [A 35-year-old roller coaster at the Jersey Shore is about to ...] ---
Provided by Morey's Pier By Chris Franklin | For NJ.com A longtime attraction in Wildwood will soon be closing for good. Morey’s Pier announced Tuesday it would be closing the Flitzer Roller Coaster and having a farewell celebration centering around the ride Sunday, Sept. 23 from 1 to 4 p.m. The roller coaster, which was installed at the amusement pier in 1983, carried multiple generations of family members, especially children. Provided by Morey's Pier The Morey Family says why it will shut down The Morey family in a letter said the decision to close the ride was not an easy one to make. “While the retirement of many rides including the Original Wipe Out Slide, the Golden Nugget, the Haunted House, the Jumbo Jet and Kong were all difficult decisions to make, retiring the Flitzer has been the most emotional one for us,” the family said. “However, from a technical perspective, there is simply no feasible way to extend the life of the ride any longer.” The family said although the roller coaster was installed at the pier in 1983, it was initially manufactured in 1969. The family also said it had invested resources to make improvements to the ride such as magnetic brakes, new tracks, a new control system, new theming and new cars, but a recent test on the roller coaster found problems that would not allow the ride to continue functioning safely. “After a recent diagnostic exam of the main structural components of the ride, it was clear that we could not, and should not attempt to extend the life any longer,” the family said. “Additionally, the ride is no longer manufactured or supported by the original manufacturer and with New Jersey’s rigid regulatory environment, rebuilding the ride is simply not feasible. Lastly, we will simply not compromise on safety.” While the Flitzer's days of providing joy to many of the pier’s visitors are coming to an end, the Morey family says that some things are in the works. “We hear you and we sympathize with you, but rest assured we have many ideas on the drawing board, many of which include more coasters. We may never be able to bring the Flitzer back, but we will do our best to make sure the next coaster will be a shared family experience, providing new memories for the generations to come.” Mixed Reactions about the ride closing On social media, there has been a variety of emotions about the announcement. A lot of people are in shock and disappointed about the announcement. Some people are a little upset another ride is leaving the pier And others reminisced about the time they had on the ride Or if you have enough space and wanted to invite some friends over Related Stories Dogs take over Jersey Shore water park for end-of-the-summer pool party (PHOTOS) One of the most expensive retirement towns in the country is in N.J., report says Bye bye, bennies. 9 reasons September is the best time to go to the Jersey Shore Chris Franklin can be reached at cfranklin@njadvancemedia.com. Follow him on Twitter @cfranklinnews. Find NJ.com on Facebook. Have a tip? Tell us. nj.com/tips


--- [Decision to retire the Flitzer outlined in letter from Morey's Piers] ---
Wednesday, September 12, 2018 Decision to retire the Flitzer outlined in letter from Morey's Piers Wildwood social media has been abuzz since yesterday afternoon, when Morey's Piers announced its decision to retire the popular Flitzer roller coaster (but not before honoring it with a farewell party on September 23). This evening, in an open letter posted on its official website, the thought process behind the decision to remove the venerable coaster was explained. You can read the entire message HERE. And please do! A few thoughts from our end... It's not surprising, given the age of the Flitzer (it was installed at Surfside Pier in 1983, but was built in 1969) that its operational lifespan has come to an end. Few rides of its size - or any other, really - make it to the 50-year mark. This isn't to say that it's not a sad occasion. The coaster's popularity has endured over the years, affording it the rare opportunity to become a ride beloved by several generations of riders. What isn't surprising in the least is the care with which Morey's Piers has handled the announcement of the Flitzer's retirement, and the subsequent chance for the Morey family (literal and extended) to honor the many memories it afforded later this month. That's a really cool thing when you stop and think about it. In an age when it often feels like history is too easily disregarded and tossed away, this marks the third time that Morey's Piers has held a special event to give a cherished attraction a proper send-off (the Golden Nugget Mine Ride and Wipeout Slide were previously honored in 2009 and 2010, respectively). Toward the end of the letter, there are a few interesting notes. The statement "recent social media posts are a reminder of just how many of our guests have been a part of this journey along the way," rings particularly true, in a number of ways. It again highlights the Flitzer's popularity and longevity, as well as the fact that Morey's Piers and the Wildwoods became synonymous entities long ago (Morey's will officially celebrate its 50th anniversary in 2019). It's also a nod to one of the traits that makes visitors and fans of the Wildwoods so unique - their (re: YOUR) passion! Whether it's lamenting the removal of a beloved attraction or the closing of a favorite restaurant, debating which motel is the best, or who serves up the best slice of pizza on the Boardwalk, there's never a shortage of opinions and, in all sincerity, we know that that stems from a place of love. (It's one of the reasons why we do what we do!) Lastly, well, we're all big fans and fun-seekers in the end, and as one big Wildwood community, we're always looking for the slightest clue as to what the Moreys are up to next. Were some potential future plans alluded to in the letter? Be sure to read to the end, and judge for yourself! - Al & the Wildwood 365 Team Subscribe to: Post Comments (Atom)


--- [Flitzer Farewell: The Wildwoods Say Goodbye to Iconic Ride] ---
What to Know - The Flitzer, a small, family-friendly roller coaster that's been on the Wildwood boardwalk for 35 years, is closing permanently - With its closure, only one of the ten original U.S. Flitzers (on Jenkinson's Boardwalk in Pleasant Point, NJ) remains operable. - A final farewell party will be held this weekend for Morey's Piers patrons to reminisce and ride. For some, the closing of North Wildwood’s Flitzer is no big deal. But for others, the retirement of the small steel roller coaster is the loss of a Jersey Shore icon. "It was my first roller coaster when I was a little fella," said Jason Ofria, of Downingtown, a longtime Flitzer rider. He buckled himself and his five-year-old son into a brightly colored coaster car. "Now, to share this with my son is a passing down of the torch, so to speak." The Flitzer was manufactured in 1969. When it was installed at the Morey’s Piers & Beachfront Waterparks seaside amusement park on the Wildwood boardwalk in 1983, it was already a used ride. Of the ten original Flitzer coasters in the United States, it’ll be the ninth to retire, according to the Roller Coaster DataBase. The last — and soon, only — operating Flitzer is on Jenkinson’s Boardwalk on Point Pleasant Beach, New Jersey, just 100 miles north of Morey’s Piers. Local Breaking news and the stories that matter to your neighborhood. The boardwalk amusement park has retired many of its original rides in the past few years, including the Wipeout, the Golden Nugget, the Haunted House, and the Jumbo Jet. But retiring the Flitzer, brothers Will and Jack Morey say, has been the most emotional decision yet. In the end, it was a choice they were forced to make. "From a technical perspective," their announcement reads, "there is simply no feasible way to extend the life of the ride any longer." The Flitzer has been on the boardwalk for 35 years; over the past fifteen, it’s been improved and enhanced with new tracks, a different control system, and new cars. But, the owners say a recent diagnostic exam of its main structural components showed there was no way to repair it further. And since the ride is no longer being manufactured, it’s impossible to rebuild. To honor its last climb, Morey’s Piers will hold a final farewell party Sunday, Sept. 30, from 1 p.m . to 4 p.m. The event will feature an '80s-themed cover band, free Flitzer rides, and an '80s costume contest. The Facebook event for the party is crowded with comments sharing memories of the Flitzer, protesting its loss, and lamenting its retirement. For many patrons, the Flitzer was the first coaster they remember riding, or the first that their children and grandchildren rode. For them, the ride and its memories are irreplaceable. "It's like a part of my childhood is being dismantled," one commenter said. But the Moreys themselves hold out hope for rides of the future. "We may never be able to bring the Flitzer back," their statement read. "But we will do our best to make sure the next coaster will be a shared family experience, providing new memories for the generations to come."


--- [Flitzer Surfside Pier Retirement Month Year Revealed] ---
In bombshell interview quinquagenarian Kelly Slater officially announces date and time of retirement! By Derek Rielly And simultaneously creates new sporting record for retirement announcements, his third official communiqué in four years. Do you remember the first time Kelly Slater retired? You will if you old. It was1998, a quarter of a century ago can y’believe, and the then six-time world champ had just-turned twenty-six. He’d compete sporadically over the next few years, winning Pipe in 1999 and the Eddie in 2002, before re-joining the tour to take on Andy Irons head-on, hinting at retirement every year thereafter. In 2018, and piggybacking Joel Parkinson’s retirement announcement at J-Bay, he said he’d officially quit by the end of the following year at age forty-seven. Last year, Slater told the wonderful MMA broadcaster Ariel Helwani, a thorn in the side of the UFC’s famously prickly Dana White, that he’d be done by 2022, and just before his fifty-first birthday. Now as Slater heads to fifty-two, he’s told left-wing firebrand blog The Guardian, he’ll defs be done after the Paris Olympic Games in July 2024, the surfing being held at Teahupoo in French Polynesia, an old favourite of the wily master. If hegets in, and there’s waves, there’s as better than even chance Slater will win a gold medal, the one trinket that has eluded the Champ. “If I make the Olympics, I’ll retire at the Olympics,” Slater told the Guardian. “I’m really hoping to qualify for it, but I need to get my butt into gear. The qualification process is going to be tough, but if I can get into the Olympics, the location the event is at in Tahiti – that wave really suits my strengths. So if I can get there I think I have a really good chance of a medal, but I think the harder part is going to be getting there, to be honest.” You’ll remember Slater was stiffed of the last slot in the US side at Tokyo by John John Florence, who competed despite being injured. Loading comments... Load Comments 0 Maui residents furious as super yacht that ran aground at Honolua Bay threatening bathymetry of “the ultimate wave, the best wave in the world” now revealed to be leaking fuel, “Major state FAIL again!” By Derek Rielly "Haoles should be banned from water. Everytime they around it something goes wrong. They steal it, pollute it, poison it and even drown in it." Grave fears for one of the world’s best waves earlier this week when a ninety-four-foot super yacht ran aground at Honolua Bay, the one-time site of the WSL’s women’s tour finale. Videos on Instagram showed the four-bedroom, five-bath Nakoa high and dry on the rocks in front of where surfers paddle out to the world-famous righthand point. “It’s sometimes thought of as the coming-out location for the short surfboard, as Australians Bob McTavish and Nat Young rode the break in late 1967 on their new vee-bottom boards; footage of the two Aussies climbing and dropping across the transparent Honolua walls was used for the mindblowing final sequence to The Hot Generation (1968), which introduced the shortboard to much of the surf world. Honolua then became a favorite testing ground for the ongoing shortboard revolution.” The four-time world champ Mark Richards says Honolua is” the ultimate wave; the best wave in the world. Community reaction was, understandably, furious. “Thanks elites…Your dream life fucks up our only life. Send dis guy back. With massive fines that go back to restoring land and water in Hawai’i. Too many fuck ups over here. We cannot overlook anymore.Barred. No can ever return.” And, even though the boat’s owner Jim Jones said Nakoa wasn’t leaking, well, he was wrong. Maui County Council member Tamara Paltin, who is president of the Save Honolua Coalition, said she watched local boats tried to pull the vessel off the reef, but “it just wasn’t budging at all.” And, so, a salvage company is working like hell to remove the diesel and the boat. It’s a complex job. The de-fuelling is going to happen on land, a chopper dropping off the gear at the bottom of the cliff and then flying the fuel drums out. As for getting the boat off the reef, they’re either going to tow it out from sea or drag it in from land. After the boat’s gone, the Division of Aquatic Resources at the Department of Land and Natural Resources is gonna assess any damage caused to the reef by the boat and may hit the owner with “significant fines” and the cost of any repair measures. Haoles should be banned from water,” said one local. “Everytime they around it something goes wrong. They steal it, pollute it, poison it and even drown in it.” Loading comments... Load Comments 0 Long read: Surf legends line up to praise reluctant surf guru Pat Curren, daddy to world champ Tom and inventor of the modern big-wave gun, “He was the King of Waimea. To this day, I’ve never seen anybody get bigger, cleaner waves or ride them so well!” By Andy St Onge “He was the best shaper. First guy to shape it, first guy to ride it. He was so respected, he had a cult following. He was a guru.” The most beautiful surfboard I have ever seen was shaped by Pat Curren. It was in Jack Reeves old shop tucked behind a snarl of Keawe bush at Don Bachman’s place across the street from Rockies Mauka side of Kam Highway. Along with Curren’s longtime surfing and shaping partner Mike Diffenderfer, Jack was restoring this elegant balsa broadsword for Ricardo Pomar, who had recently acquired this treasure through some sort of clandestine negotiation. Before finding its way to Jack’s shop, the Curren gun had been hanging behind a dingy bar in Town, a place called “Nicks” near Waikiki, just off Kalakaua Avenue. It belonged to the barkeep, a local Hawaiian named Freddy Noa. Reportedly, Noa had been a decent surfer back in the day (1950s) as well as an associate of Pat Curren. Noa somehow ended up with this masterpiece in the 1960s. Thereabouts 1988-89 or so, he was looking to sell the board to the highest bidder. Flippy Hoffman (also a friend and contemporary of Curren) bid $2000, but he never paid up. That’s when Ricardo stepped in and offered $2500 in cash, which, at the time, Noa was happy to take. After having Jack and Diff restore the board to original, pristine condition and admiring it in his possession for the next 30 years or so, Pomar eventually sold “Stradivarius” (as it was called) for almost ten times what he paid for it — much to Noa’s chagrin, who had tried to buy it back from Ricardo more than once. So it goes. At the time, probably 1990 or so, I was living at V-Land on Kaunala Street in a house full of heavy big-wave riders with their Brewer and Owl pintails hanging in the rafters, otherwise strewn around the house or in the living room standing against the walls, and out in the garage. I had a few Owls myself at this point and was well-accustomed to the omnipresence and gravitas of the “finest, hand-crafted precision surfboards in the world” (quoting the Brewer-Chapman “Top Gun” logo). At the tender age of 21, I had already become a surfboard connoisseur. Some years later, in 2002, I had the opportunity to meet Pat Curren. It was late Spring, probably April, and I was out alone surfing Sunset Point, just down the street (Huelo) from where I live. The waves were small and clean, a little West swell refracted perfectly off the Boneyard into crisp, bowling runners across the reef. I love days like that. I was riding one of my three-stringer 11’ single-fin pintail semi-guns shaped by Owl (a modern interpretation of the original “Pipeliners” designed and shaped by Brewer in the mid-‘60s for guys like Pat’s Windansea bud Butch Van Artsdalen). Cruise control in full forward trim. As I sat there by myself waiting for another set, I spotted someone walking down the path at the public beach access to what is called “Mother’s Beach.” In some way, I knew immediately — instinctively I suppose — that the figure I observed slowly making his way to the shoreline, a longboard under his arm, almost a hundred yards away, was Pat Curren. No lie. I knew it was him. I was stunned, almost took my breath away. I’d actually seen him a few years before (1999) when he was on the North Shore for a minute. At that time, he was at the Bay watching his son, the three-time world champion Tom Curren, ride a beautiful morning of fifteen-to-twenty-foot waves on a replica gun he had shaped for his son Tom. Tom and I spoke in the water that day and I checked out his board (it was beautiful). Tom was charging, of course, surfing it well. When I came in and walked by the lifeguard tower on my way to the showers, I saw Pat Curren standing there alone. I didn’t say anything. I was in awe. So, I guess I must have intuitively recognized him from the initial passing encounter. That day in 2002, he looked old, though, and tired; older than the 70 years I suppose he was (doing the math in my head), as well as a little awkward, kind of off balance, as one who hasn’t paddled a board in a while often appears. I just sat there and observed, although I didn’t look too closely out of respect and deference. Still, it was just him and me out there. I was stoked! Curren paddled right up next to me. Didn’t say a word. Neither did I. A set approached. He laid down and began to paddle for the wave. Curren caught the wave. But, as I remember, he didn’t (couldn’t?) stand up. He just sort-of belly rode the wave until it faded out on the inside in the channel. I thought to myself: “There but by the grace of God and time go I” – goes all of us if we make it that far in life. Even and especially the best grow old, weary, and lose it, sooner or later. I recalled Ricky Grigg telling me a how he regretted losing his timing and balance, the ability to leap to his feet (in his sixties). Peter Cole often recited the adage: “We start off as kooks and we end up kooks.” To be sure, however, Pat Curren is no kook. I caught the next wave, trimmed across the bowl, and kicked out, gliding next to him. We paddled back out together, me just a little behind him, again out of respect for a man I revered as a demigod. No words. Not yet. Once we returned to the lineup zone, we both sat up on our boards and Curren said casually: “Nice board you got there.” I smiled and said “Thank you.” He asked who shaped it and I told him that Owl Chapman did. He smiled and said: “I thought it was a Brewer,” adding graciously that “My name’s Pat.” We talked story for a bit. He told me he had been in Mexico and was in town to say goodbye to Mike Diffenderfer, his old friend from Windansea and early North Shore days. Of course, I thought, knowing that Diff was terminally ill (with brain cancer) and in hospice down the road in Waialee at the Crawford’s Convalescent Home. A melancholy moment, signalling the end of an era. We traded off a few more mini-waves, Pat belly-riding and seeming to enjoy himself. Then he went in and disappeared up the path. Gone as quickly and quietly as he had appeared. I never saw him again. “Part of his pure quality,” Ricky Grigg recalled around this time “was his inability to compromise with society, which was why he came to Hawaii in the first place. The fact that he’s [living down] in Mexico, in that setting, is completely consistent with that attitude.” Fred Van Dyke offered this insight: “I’m not sure anyone really knew Pat, I don’t think anyone ever penetrated his depth. And that was sort of his charm. He was quiet, strong and silent, sort of a John Wayne type. . . . The image I’ll always have is from Waimea one day in 25-foot surf. We’re all standing around, waxing our boards, and there’s Pat with a cigarette and a beer. He walks down to the shore, flips the beer over his head, kicks the cigarette into the ocean, paddles out and catches the wave of the day.” That exquisite Curren javelin I saw in Jack’s shop back in 1990was something to behold. Otherwise known as “Stradivarius” — an allusion to the rarefied violins prized for the highest quality construction and finest sound — the board was shaped sometime in the late ‘50s (’58? ’59?) from a beige balsa blank, ten feet six inches (10’6”) in length, composed of seven redwood stringers; a narrow tail pulled tight into a baby squash; super hard rails; a little roll in the belly near the nose flowed into a flat panel that ran into a relatively small fin that looked more like a rudder or keel (in stark contrast to the more modern broad-based, raked gun fin later developed and refined by Brewer, Jack, and Owl to which I’d become accustomed). At once exotic and erotic, this was an extremely sexy surfboard. Indeed, this spear-like gun was an exceptional work of art, like a sculpture by Michelangelo. It wasn’t no wall-hanger judging by the dings and water damage. It was the original “Rhino Chaser,” an “Elephant Gun” (both terms coined by Curren’s loquacious peer, Buzzy Trent), a “Stradivarius” shaped and designed to catch and ride the best, largest, most challenging waves in the world at Waimea Bay. Moreover, this was, in fact, the first board to successfully ride the biggest, baddest waves in surfing. Jack Reeve’s shop was and remains comparable to the Louvre, the Smithsonian, and the Museum of Modern Art all in one – or, alternatively, the workshop studio of Leonardo Da Vinci – when it comes to flawless surfboards. Ground Zero. The epicenter. Where it all comes together into the final, finished product. Only the finest specimens of the state of the art of shaping and glassing – Non Plus Ultra, or, as the Hawaiians say: No Ka Oi. Predominantly Brewers and Owls, balsa and foam masterworks (mostly Sunset and Waimea boards), including a few Diffenderfer wooden masterpieces, as well as a variety of finely tuned foils shaped by Pat Rawson and Chuck Andrus designed for the Pipeline Underground. In this enchanted milieu, the board shaped by Pat Curren was outstanding. Owl pointed to it and said to me: “That’s where it all began.” The prototype for the modern big-wave gun. Brewer said as much, too. Reflecting on his evolution into the greatest shaper of all time, RB gave unambiguous credit to Curren as being one of the “the greatest” influences on his shaping philosophy and practice back in the early 1960s, along with other notable innovators such as Joe Quigg, Bob Sheppard, and Diffenderfer, all of whom were in their prime as Richard “Dick” Brewer came into his own under the label Surfboards Hawaii, which he founded in Haleiwa in 1961. Largely based on what he observed and learned from the Maestro Curren, Brewer completely revolutionized the design and shape of the modern big-wave gun. In such regard, Brewer credited that “Curren was into hard rails and flat bottoms. Pat put as much flat bottom as he could into a board. [In 1960] he was in in his prime . . . Curren was the greatest. I took off from where he left off.” I was enthralled as I ran my hand across the flat bottom, along the rail, felt the turn of the rail in the middle blend into a razor-sharp edge near the narrow squash tail. Not only did it look like it could catch and ride a giant wave, this board actually did catch and ride the biggest waves (then as now: 25’ plus) at Waimea Bay in the late 1950s and early 1960s, surfed masterfully by the man who shaped it: Patrick King Curren. Peter Cole, one of the “Coast Haole” pioneers that first migrated to the North Shore and charged Sunset and Waimea along with Curren, stated plainly: “Pat was the master, the King of Waimea. To this day, I’ve never seen anybody get bigger, cleaner waves or ride them so well.” Anna Trent (Buzzy’s daughter) corroborates Cole’s testimony: “Then, even by the standards of now, [Curren] surfed the Bay impeccably well. Some say the best.” Top Gun. Non Plus Ultra. Highest praise. The “King” indeed. This isn’t nostalgic bluster or hyperbole. I’ve directly observed and surfed with the best big wave riders for the past four decades at The Bay and I can attest with confidence that the waves I’ve seen Curren ride in the old surf films alone (not to mention what I’ve been told by reliable authorities like Peter Cole, Ricky Grigg, and others who surfed with him) including all the photos and testimonials from other first-hand witnesses (etc.), Pat Curren rode as well (and big) as ANYBODY then or now — including this most recent Eddie Invitational (January 22, 2023) which was held in absolutely maxing 25’ plus epic Waimea with the best surfers: Luke Shepardson, Billy Kemper, Mark Healey, John Florence, Kai Lenny, and the rest. What a name, too: Pat “King” Curren — one he lived up to. He was one of a kind. Singular. Born in 1932 in Carlsbad and raised in and around Mission Beach with two brothers, Curren described himself as “growing up bodysurfing and belly boarding in Mission Beach.” When it came to board riding, he started in 1950, 18 years-old at Windansea, the archetypal La Jolla surf spot, known for its strong surf and idiosyncratic locals. “Nobody taught me to surf. Does anybody teach anybody? It’s kind of like learning how to ride a bike. Somebody gives you a push, then watches you crash into a pole.” The laconic Curren was conditioned by a feral environment near the Mexican border in the raw, open-ocean waves of Windansea and the wild, lawless environs surrounding Tijuana. In the post-war era, there was an uninhibited subculture of non-conformist Epicureans of a certain athletic (if also alcoholic) bent, those who lived close to nature, spontaneously, by their wits and handiwork, even artistry, rejecting the strictures of the Eisenhower Era; while the rest of an American herd dutifully complied with the homogenizing, self-limited prospects of the 1950s. Surfers in general, and Curren in particular, were Aquatic Bohemians, energetic, hedonistic rebels that aspired to a form of Eudaimonia (human flourishing) not seen or experienced since the Ancient Hawaiians. Along with other luminaries from the La Jolla Windansea crew (e.g., Mike Diffenderfer, Butch Van Artsdalen, Al Nelson, Wayne Land, Dave Cheney, Buzzy Bent, et al.), Curren was a unique exemplar of this dare-devil, seemingly reckless, rebellious spirit. Soon after he started surfing, he began to build surfboards, first for himself and then for others who admired his exacting craftsmanship. “I worked with Al Nelson and Dave Cheney, building boards for people we knew,” Curren recalled. “This was before stickers. We used a rubber stamp, ‘Nelson Surfboards.’ The guys that put no money down on their boards got theirs first. If they paid in advance they had to wait. That was pretty standard in the industry.” They were shaping balsa boards in the beginning (before the advent of polyurethane foam blanks were available) in vacant lots, the Windansea parking lot, random garages, and on the beach under the pier. Curren, Nelson, and Cheney tried opening a legit shaping “shop,” but that didn’t last very long. The lure of The Islands was irresistible once photos of the big surf at Makaha were published in the Mainland press in 1953. Soon thereafter, the Windansea crew were winging (and sailing) their way to Oahu in search of The Big Blue Wave. The rudimentary, subsistence lifestyle they devised in and around Windansea transposed fluidly to the rural North Shore, which, at the time, was deep Country, composed of a rotting old railroad track that circled the island; some muddy, bumpy dirt roads; a couple overgrown pineapple fields and a cattle ranch at Kaunala (now V-Land); as well as several small subsistence pig and chicken farms run by Chinese and Hawaiian locals in and around Paumalu (Sunset Beach) Northeast of sleepy Haleiwa town. “Even though occasional surfers had been driving out,” Flippy Hoffman remembers, “no one was actually living (on the North Shore)… There were very few people . . . pig ranchers and shit. Not many Hawaiians either. And they didn’t even look at surfers. It’s like it is today [in] Kahuku — you don’t even know they’re there. And there sure weren’t any haoles. Nothing.” Humble, hungry, and single-minded, Curren was at the vanguard, living a simple hand-to-mouth lifestyle centered around the ocean. He first set up a rudimentary camp on a vacant lot next to the beach at Pupukea, near what would be known as the Banzai Pipeline (named by his Windansea comrade Mike Diffenderfer). Curren was an avid diver and caught most of his food with a spear (Hawaiian sling) or his bare hands (wrestling Honu — sea turtles — to the surface from deep free-dives); otherwise he poached random feral fowl in the bush. “When Pat and I went on patrol, there wasn’t a chicken or a duck that was safe. I can still see us running down the beach at Pupukea with a big fat chicken in each hand, calves burning in the soft sand with a couple of pit bulls on our ass. We’d barbecue ‘em up later and have a hell of a dinner. Pat was also a pretty decent fisherman and a great diver. So between the ocean, the chickens and the ducks, he got along pretty good.” This set the standard pace for the underground avant-garde North Shore regimen that persisted for decades. Noll declared that Curren “molded it into a state-of-the art lifestyle.” Not long after the improvised beach camp, Pat and some of the Windansea guys rented a dilapidated Quonset Hut on Sunset Point (in what would come to be known as the “Backyards” neighborhood) for $60 a month, living (and arguing) together in a Spartan commune of sorts. Curren et al. gutted the Quonset hut, knocking out the walls and transforming the structure into an open gallery with surfboard racks floor-to-ceiling on the walls on either side, bunks beneath, and a long slab of a table down the middle. They called it the “Meade Hall” in honor of their (imagined) Viking forbears. Curren proudly presided at the head of the table sporting a Viking helmut with a ryhyton (Scandanavian drinking horn) overflowing with meade (more probably beer) in hand – Skål! Between 1955 and 1957 the primary focus was on the glorious, challenging, shifting peaks of Paumalu (Sunset Beach) and the elusive Bluebirds at Point Surf Makaha on Oahu’s Westside during the Autumn and Winter months; as well as the smooth, powder blue cloud-breaks off Waikiki in Town (Honolulu) during the summer. This period was when Pat got serious about building surfboards, taking what he had learned back on the Coast (with Nelson, Cheney, Diff, and a colorful character from Hermosa Beach named Dale Velzy — namesake of Velzyland) to another level of expertise. Curren’s designs and shaping methods evolved quickly as he adapted to the powerful waves of Oahu. Others soon took notice. “I really started shaping boards [on my own] in 1956-57,” Pat recalled. “I was walking down the beach at Waikiki and a guy at a rental board place asked me who had made the board I was carrying. I said I did. He asked me to make 20 rental boards. So I rented a shop in Haleiwa and got into it.” Mike Doyle, a contemporary and champion surfer, recounts: “What really set Curren apart, and won him the admiration of the others, was that he made the most beautiful, streamlined surfboards any of us had ever seen. Each one of his boards was a cross between a work of art and a weapon, like some beautifully crafted spear. Curren had learned how to attach slabs of wood to the nose and tail of a board to get more rocker, or curve. And his boards went like rockets. In those days, speed was everything. Riding big waves wasn’t about style or looking pretty or making graceful cutbacks or any of that. It was about going for the biggest wave and hoping you didn’t get killed. Curren’s boards were designed to go straight down the line, hard and fast. They gave you a chance at survival.” Necessity is the mother of invention; and North Shore big-wave riders needed, among other things, more rocker (curve) in their surfboards to accommodate the steep, barreling waves of Sunset Beach, Laniakea, and Haleiwa, as well as the long, precipitous, hollow walls of Makaha — and, soon enough, the beckoning giant combers of Waimea Bay. Pat was probably the first to put rocker in his boards in the late ‘50s. This innovation was, according to Doyle, “his real genius.” Additionally, he developed templates out of Masonite so that he could refine and replicate both his outlines and rocker into prototypes of certain gun designs. Doyle remarked that “Curren developed that template through years of big-wave riding, countless wipeouts, who knows how many scars and bruises, endless hours at a drafting table, plus an enormous amount of natural talent.” These developments, tweaks, and improvements in shapes and designs instigated a paradigm shift in the evolution of modern big-wave-riding equipment. Nineteen fifty-seven marks yet another huge leap forward into the relatively unknown — and unridden — realm. Up until that point, Waimea Bay remained strictly Kapu: sacred, forbidden, and foreboding. The conventional wisdom, even among these pioneer Devil-may-care iconoclasts, was that the Leviathans of Waimea couldn’t be surfed or survived: at once unridden and unrideable. An ominous mystique surrounded the Bay as a place that was not only haunted by ancient Uhane (ghosts) and swarming with ravenous sharks, but also the spot where Dickie Cross drowned (lost at sea: no body was found) back in 1943. Cross and his comrade Woody Brown had to paddle three miles down the coast from massive, closed-out Sunset Beach only to find, as the sun set, that the Bay itself was also shutting down. Giant 60’-plus faced waves detonated a half-mile outside the beach, the Bay itself a roiling cauldron of deadly rips. Brown chanced paddling in between the gigantic sets and somehow got washed in (naked) sans board in the misty twilight; whereas Cross was never seen again. The prevailing wisdom thereafter was that Waimea was off-limits, not worth the risk. That all changed one halcyon afternoon on November 5, 1957. Some of the boys, including Greg Noll, Mike Stang, Micky Munoz, Diffenderfer, and Curren, among others, were sitting in their jalopies looking at relatively smooth, clean inviting peaks outside the point of Waimea Bay and decided to give it a shot. It was by no means giant or death-defying, but it was a major step forward in the progression of big-wave riding. After they paddled out and caught (although didn’t really make) a few waves, the spell had been broken. Despite their best efforts, however, most everyone either got pitched over the falls, pearled, or, if they made the drop, their crude, straight (rockerless) longboards popped out of the water. No one actually made a wave. Curren realized immediately that he (and the rest) needed something even more refined and specialized in order to successfully surf these big waves. The “ultimate gun” was required; and Pat was the man to make it. Echoing Brewer’s testimony, Peter Cole affirmed that “Pat was the first guy to produce the ultimate gun [before Brewer and Diffenderfer]. Joe Quigg and Bob Sheppard were making nice boards for all-around surfing, but Pat made the stiletto, specifically for Waimea, where you go from Point A to Point B on the biggest wave that comes through.” If one was serious about catching and successfully riding the biggest waves, one required a Curren gun. It was as simple as that. Pat forged the path that all the rest would follow in the years to come. “No question about it,” certified Ricky Grigg: “He was the best shaper. Number one. He had a real concept of the elephant gun. First guy to shape it, first guy to ride it. He was so respected, he had a cult following. He was a guru.” Top Gun. Non Plus Ultra. A reluctant, recalcitrant guru at that. Never one to seek the limelight or court photographers and attention, Curren nevertheless was thrust into the role of a leader, as Homer’s Peleus – valorous father of Achilles – said of his outstanding son: “always out front, the best, outstripping others. Leader of the pack. “He didn’t want to be, though,” Peter Cole noted. “That was the amazing thing. He did not want to be a leader. I think guys just gravitated to him.” Not only quiet, he was often silent. The enigmatic Curren would go for an entire day without saying a word. Nor was he the robust physical specimen that, for example, Buzzy Trent exemplified with his chiseled physique and ripped muscles. Doyle (a self-styled golden-boy) brazenly described Curren as “gaunt and pale, with a pointed chin, sunken cheeks, and worried eyes . . . real quiet and moody.” Perhaps it was an off day, hungover; in the photos I’ve seen of the young Pat, he looks ripped, vigorous, and strong. He was also one with the ladies, according to Fred Van Dyke, who reported that “he had an incredible effect on women . . . they’d just fall apart” in his presence. Notwithstanding his modesty, reticence, and reserve, Curren was also renowned as sly, playful, and funny, sharply witted, always up for a prank. Many of the North Shore pioneers trained regularly, obsessively one might say, and worked hard to stay in top shape. The Adonis Buzzy Trent was perhaps the best exemplar of such rigorous practice — one of the original “Surf Muscles” (cf. ironmen past & present such as “Tarzan” Smith, Jeff Hakman, Sam Hawk, Laird Hamilton) – but there were others, including paddle-board champions Tom Zahn and Doyle, as well as the burly Van Dyke, who would train together during the Summer at Ala Moana in Town when the surf was flat, racing each other on paddle-boards, swimming laps, and sprinting the beach. True to form, the nonconformist Curren wasn’t a fitness freak, regardless of the fact that he could free-dive to depths of 60’ or more and handle himself confidently in heavy water situations. He preferred cigarettes, cold beer, and a barbecue on the beach of fish or fowl he freshly caught to harried calisthenics, tedious beach runs, and running out of breath. Altogether disinterested, the self-deprecating Curren described himself as a “shitty athlete.” One afternoon, however, enjoying a cool two-beer afternoon buzz, Curren took a long draw on his cigarette, stubbed the butt into the sand and challenged the plucky teetotaler Tommy Zahn to a paddle competition. The vivacious Zahn laughed in his face and accepted the dare with a dismissive snark. Curren proceeded to smoke the vainglorious jock, leaving Zahn sucking wind in his wake as Pat pulled hard across the Ala Wai. Chastened and defeated, Zahn was mortified, on the verge of tears. When Pat got back to shore, he kicked back, cracked another brew, and sparked a Lucky Strike. So it went for the next several years, during which time the quietly reserved Curren ascended and was recognized by all as the undisputed “King of the Bay.” Waimea Bay. Top Gun. Non Plus Ultra. There were standout days, such as January 10, 1958, when the Bay reached epic closeout conditions (30’ plus = 60’ plus faces) as big and rideable as it gets. A few days later (Jan. 13-14), the entire North Shore washed out (40’ or more) and Point Surf Makaha came alive for the intrepid few. Curren was the standout surfer on the Bay day; John Severson at Makaha. Not surprisingly, Curren considered those years in the late ‘50s – pristine empty lineups with no crowds, cheap rent, an ocean teeming with an abundance of free food, and an endless supply of powerful, perfect waves — as being the “best time of my life.” Curren met a gal named Jeanine in 1960 and they married the next year. She would, in her words, inevitably “steer his energy away from the North Shore.” They were married in a small, private ceremony at Maile Point on the Westside with a few local Hawaiians, including Sammy Lee (who loaned Pat his tuxedo jacket, which was a little too big for the groom), his best man Jose Angel, and Buzzy Trent in attendance. The surf was pumping that day, so after the ceremony, guns stuffed in the back of his woody, Pat along with his newlywed, Sammy, the Angel and Trent families headed back to the North Shore to surf Waimea Bay. Jeannie remembers that she “spent my wedding day wondering if my husband was going to come back alive.” A year or so later, as the North Shore became increasingly popular, busier with crowds of surfers, more and more people settling, putting down roots, and building homes, Pat (now 30 years old) was over the hype and ready for a change. He felt like he had achieved what he needed in terms of both his surfing and shaping aspirations; there was nothing else to prove. He determined that: “The Islands were too crowded . . . and I was getting ready to do something else. I’d done everything I wanted to do there. I pretty much gave up surfing in 1962.” The Currens moved back to the mainland. They settled in Newport, where they had their first son. His name was Tom and he would go on to become one of the greatest surfers of all time, a three-time world champion, as well as an accomplished musician; one of the most revered figures in surfing history. Owl told me a funny story about the day Tom was born. In July of 1964, the not quite 14-year old Craig (a.k.a. Owl) was a full-on surf-stoked gremmie, living in Costa Mesa, across the Coast Highway from the beach. He, his older brother Gary (a.k.a. Chappy) along with some friends (including Dave Abbott, Walter Visolay, and Mike Taylor), had a little club-house, called “The Shack,” near the beach in Newport (30th / 40th Street?) which they built together, where they’d hang out, smoke cigarettes and the occasional “reefer” between surf sessions. Pat had a shaping room and surf-shop next door to the groms’ “Shack.” One afternoon that summer, the day before the Fourth of July, Curren ambled in, covered in foam and sawdust, bummed a cigarette from one of the kids, sparked up and sat there a while silently, then stated brusquely: “My wife just had a kid.” The way Owl tells the story, Pat didn’t seem all that thrilled about the event. Truth is often stranger than fiction. Not long afterwards, the Currens relocated up the Coast to Santa Barbara, in Carpenteria. They had another boy named Joe in 1974; a sister Anna was born some years after that. Pat gradually found his way back to the ocean and surfing in the ‘70s, enjoying the waves with his son Tom (for whom he built custom surfboards) at the fabled points of the region: Hammonds, Rincon, El Capitan, the Ranch. Tom remembers: “My dad really went out of his way for us to see different parts of the world. Hiking, horseback-riding, we did all this stuff. He definitely enriched our lives . . . and especially me because I was the oldest. That influenced me, at least with my own kids to show them things that might jar them in a pleasant way . . . He got me surfing…” Meanwhile, Jeannie found Jesus and religion; while the burgeoning adolescent Tom discovered, among other things, marijuana, as well as his independence. Frustrated and feeling penned in by various pressures of society and the challenges of family life, Pat withdrew. Jeannie lamented that “he saw our life as an impossible situation. I could sense the sadness come over him.” “He made a toolbox, put his tools in it and said ‘goodbye’. . . He was discouraged; and he didn’t know what else to do, so he went out into the wilderness . . . his pride — that’s what keeps him there.” The marriage fell apart in 1981. “We could see it coming,” said Tom. “I was surfing all over California at the time and didn’t see him that much, and I handled it fine. When you’re seventeen years old, it isn’t a major trauma. It was hard on him though. Hardest thing he’d ever been through.” Pat split South to Costa Rica, where he enjoyed a surfing renaissance in Central America long before the invasion of hordes of ex-pats and tourists. In the late ‘80s, he migrated back up to the Southern tip of Baja, on the East Cape. I remember hearing hushed, word-of-mouth stories trickling in through the coconut wireless during the early ‘90s (around the time I first beheld that beautiful gun in JR’s shop) of Curren living solo out of his camper-truck, surfing perfect, hollow rights at a fabled secret spot called Boca de Tule. He lived the life of loner exile for years, surfing the early morning glass until it blew out. A legend. He would have a fourth child, a daughter named Maile, some years later. Pat found his way back stateside and began shaping custom surfboards for those who could find him and afford his rarefied, multi-stringered balsa guns, in addition to scaled-down miniature replicas of the real thing. Although the surfboards sold for as much as $25K each (a few hundred a pop for the little guys), Pat never seemed to have much money and remained in a perpetual state of pecuniary need. A few years ago (2020), his son Joe lamented: “Yes, it’s true, he struggle[ed] financially. The truth is, this ha[d] been going on for a long time. . . We love and care about my dad very much . . . [and] we’ve always respected my dad’s wish to keep this kind of stuff private . . . My brother Tom and I, my sisters Anna and Maile, my dad’s brothers Mike and Terry and the entire family have all been trying to help him, doing the best we can, for years and years. It has been challenging and complicated; and we always run into a major road block.” The last couple of decades saw Curren traversing back and forth across the border, always close to the ocean, struggling perennially to elude the crowd and live life on his own terms. Pat himself put it like this: “We keep gettin’ pushed into these little corners. The last time I surfed Malibu had to be 1952. Couldn’t believe how crowded it was. Never went back. La Jolla got all fucked up, then Hawaii, then Costa Rica. I’m runnin’ out of places. Then again, I’m runnin’ out of time.” Epilogue: In my surfing life I’ve had the profound privilege and pleasure of meeting and surfing with many icons of surfing. Some of them, such as Peter Cole and Ricky Grigg, I even got to know and called friends. I’ve learned valuable lessons from each in various ways, more than grateful to share the lineup and some insights. Yet, there are two guys that stand head and shoulders above the rest, in terms of the awe and gratitude inspired in me: Dick Brewer and Pat Curren. These two surfer-shapers achieved and contributed more to the legacy of what’s been made possible in giant waves of consequence than anyone else I can think of — Pat lit the proverbial torch (in terms of pushing the envelope of big-wave-riding shaping and surfing potential) and passed the torch to RB, who grabbed it and took off running . . . The rest is history. We lost them both in the past year, along with many others, notably including Paul Gebauer, Joe Quigg, and Greg Noll, each and all of whom were both friends and admirers of Pat. Seasons change. The Moon wanes. Tides ebb. The Sun sets . . . Eternal recurrence of the same. Patrick King Currren died on Sunday, January 22, 2023. It was an exceptional day. Powerful, glorious, and ferocious. The surf on Oahu was giant and Waimea came alive, really showed its teeth. It was absolutely pumping 20’-25’ (occasionally bigger) from dawn until dusk. Biggest, cleanest, meanest Waimea in decades, almost, truth be told, too big. The Pat Curren Swell? Why not. Sounds about right. It was an Epic Day of surf. Perfect offshore conditions Island Wide all day long. While I attempted to ride gaping 15’-20’ Point Surf Makaha, they held the Eddie Aikau Invitational and local-boy lifeguard, underground charger Luke Shepardson won the event in classic, Pat Curren form — a quiet, deserving, homegrown underdog defeated or overcame the best of the best: John Florence, Mark Healey, Billy Kemper, et al. All of them links in a chain that extend back directly to Pat Curren, the original King of the Bay. The First Top Gun. He was 90 years old. We are all born to die. Perhaps the only certainty there is in this existential Odyssey we call life. It’s what one does between birth and death that marks the significance and quality of existence. In the case of Pat Curren, he accomplished some things rather extraordinary, singular, truly heroic, and simply beautiful on his own terms in his own time, just like those big, beautiful, blue waves he courageously charged and that exquisite balsa gun I saw in Jack’s shop over 30 years ago. Largely illiterate Southern California surfers flock to writer’s symposium as Pulitzer Prize winner Bill Finnegan set to speak on “the North Pole of irresponsibility!” By Chas Smith Sit at the feet of the master. Southern California’s surfers are known for many things including quick tempers, strong opinions and bubbling resentment. They are not known for overwhelming literacy and so, as you can imagine, social scientists became extremely baffled when, on Wednesday morning, caravans of Sprinter vans began making their way from all points south of Santa Barbara to San Diego for today’s Writer’s Symposium by the Sea. Hosted at Point Loma University, the yearly event promises “to inspire readers and writers alike, featuring evocative conversations with exemplary writers from various genres, backgrounds, and perspectives.” The author of Barbarian Days, who calls New York home, will travel in to share about the one book every surfer has at least attempted to read. Finnegan, himself, calls the work “maybe the long story of trying to become an adult,” and told the local public radio affiliate, “I’ve had this kind of bipolar life and surfing is the North Pole of irresponsibility. But then there’s the other impulse to be a responsible citizen, to contribute — and in my case — as a writer, to have opinions and inform my readers. So does that tension — that tug of war — I think all through the book.” Grave fears for iconic Hawaiian surf spot after super yacht runs aground on its pristine coral reef, “What happened at Honolua Bay is an environmental disaster!” By The Editors "Thanks elites. Your dream life fucks up our only life. Send dis guy back. With massive fines that go back to restoring land and water in Hawai’i." A wild-looking 94-foot super yacht ran aground in Honolua Bay on Maui Monday morning after its mooring line snapped, sparking outrage on social media over the boat’s potential damage to the iconic wave and the surrounding marine environment. Videos posted to social media showed the vessel, named the Nakoa, stuck on the rocks in front of where surfers paddle out to the world-famous righthand point. It came to rest about 700 feet out- side of the state Honolua-Mokuleia Bay Marine Life Conservation District at the part of the reef surfers call the Point. “Such a bummer,” big-wave surfer Kai Lenny commented on one Instagram post. “They need to be held responsible for every inch of reef,” wrote another user. “I hope they receive millions in fines by the looks of the yacht that they have.” From another, “Thanks elites…Your dream life fucks up our only life. Send dis guy back. With massive fines that go back to restoring land and water in Hawai’i. Too many fuck ups over here. We cannot overlook anymore.Barred. No can ever return.” The vessel is one of two luxury yachts owned by Noelani Yacht Charters. With a top speed of 32 knots, the Nakoa has four bedrooms, five bathrooms and a full kitchen. Charter packages start at $9,801, according to the company’s website. “While she’s well suited for day trips around any of Hawaii’s major islands, she’s more perfectly suited for unforgettable multi- day luxury experiences for guests who demand only the best,” the website states. Reached by phone, Jim Jones, owner of Noelani Yacht Charters, said, “The boat’s in great shape,” although some “stabilizer fins” broke off. Asked whether fuel was leaking from it as some Instagram users noted, he said, “There’s no leak at all.” Jones was on a family outing when the mooring line snapped around 5:30 a.m., and the boat drifted onto the reef around 6 a.m., he said. “The wind came up strong this morning,” said Jones. He had hoped the rising tide would lift it off the reef by 4 p.m. Monday, he said. By 4:25 p.m. the boat could not be removed, according to Department of Land and Natural Resources spokesperson Dan Dennison. The Coast Guard was still on the scene Monday afternoon. There was no leak of fuel or hazardous materials, he said. Community members expressed their concern over the boat’s damage to the marine environment. “The community is super concerned if another swell comes if the boat breaks apart in the lineup,” said Tamara Paltin, a Maui County Council member representing West Maui and volunteer president of the Save Honolua Coalition. “The Save Honolua Coalition has been trying for years to get the state to better manage the bay. The community is demanding full accountability from this company.” “What happened at Honolua Bay is an environmental disaster,” Tiare Lawrence, a board member of the community group Ka Malu o Kahalawai, wrote in a text. “In these situations, commercial and mooring permits should automatically be rescinded.” Day-use moorings have a limit of two hours, Dennison added. Buoys of this kind are intended to prevent boats from damaging the reef with their anchors, according to the Malama Kai Foundation. Jones, who owns the Nakoa, says he spent the night in the boat moored to the day-use buoy. “We were unaware that that was not allowed,” Jones said. “I get the locals are upset,” Jones said. “This is not intentional, and we apologize for being in this prime surf spot. We’re just trying to get off the rocks.” Luxury yacht runs aground in Honolua Bay (This story first ran in the Honolulu Star-Advertiser and is Jackie Truesdale’s first story for BeachGrit. It ain’t the style he’d usually submit for BeachGrit and he did offer carte blanche to gussy it up a little. But who needs colour when you got someone who picks up a phone, am I right?)
