=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[J. C. Leyendecker - Wikipedia]
In 1936, George Horace Lorimer, ... to illustrate covers. Leyendecker's last cover for the Saturday Evening Post was of a New Year Baby for the January 2, 1943, issue....
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/J._C._Leyendecker

[ART & ARTISTS: J. C. Leyendecker - part 1 - Blogger]
Between 1896 and 1950 Leyendecker illustrated more than 400 magazine covers including 322 for The Saturday Evening Post, as well as many advertisement illustrations for its interior pages. No other artist, until the arrival of Norman Rockwell two decades later, was so solidly identified with one publication.
URL: https://poulwebb.blogspot.com/2015/03/j-c-leyendecker-part-1.html

[Events from October 3, 2025 – February 13 – SeattleArtists.com]
Seattle Art Events Calendar - Local art events, gallery shows, exhibitions, and art walks. A Seattle art community for local artists.
URL: https://www.seattleartists.com/calendar/

[Joseph Christian Leyendecker - Artvee]
Leyendecker's last cover for the Saturday Evening Post was of a New Year Baby for January 2, 1943, thus ending the artist's most lucrative and celebrated string of commissions. New commissions continued to filter in, but slowly.
URL: https://artvee.com/artist/joseph-christian-leyendecker/

[Illustrator J. C. Leyendecker - Guide to Value, Marks, History ...]
When The Saturday Evening Post's editor George Lorimer retired in 1936, his two immediate successors reduced the number of cover commissions. Besides images for a few World War II posters, Leyendecker's last commission for The Saturday Evening Post was the "New Year's Baby" for the January 2, 1943 issue.
URL: https://www.worthpoint.com/dictionary/p/books-paper-magazines/illustrators/illustrator-j-c-leyendecker


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [J. C. Leyendecker - Wikipedia] ---
Joseph Christian Leyendecker (March 23, 1874 – July 25, 1951) was one of the most prominent and financially successful freelance commercial artists in the United States. He was active between 1895 and 1951 producing drawings and paintings for hundreds of posters, books, advertisements, and magazine covers and stories. He is best known for his 80 covers for Collier's Weekly, 322 covers for The Saturday Evening Post, and advertising illustrations for B. Kuppenheimer men's clothing and Arrow brand shirts and detachable collars. He was one of the few known gay artists working in the early-twentieth century United States.




--- [ART & ARTISTS: J. C. Leyendecker - part 1 - Blogger] ---
| J. C. Leyendecker in 1895 | Joseph Christian Leyendecker (1874 – 1951) was one of the pre-eminent American illustrators of the early 20th century. He is best known for his poster, book and advertising illustrations, the trade character known as The Arrow Collar Man, and his numerous covers for The Saturday Evening Post. Between 1896 and 1950 Leyendecker illustrated more than 400 magazine covers including 322 for The Saturday Evening Post, as well as many advertisement illustrations for its interior pages. No other artist, until the arrival of Norman Rockwell two decades later, was so solidly identified with one publication. Leyendecker was born in 1874 in Montabaur, Germany. The family moved to Chicago in 1882. After working in late adolescence for an engraving firm in Chicago, and completing his first commercial commission of 60 Bible illustrations for the Powers Brother Company, he sought formal artistic training at the Chicago Art Institute. After studying drawing and anatomy under John H. Vanderpoel at the Institute, Joseph and his younger brother, Frank Xavier Leyendecker, enrolled at the Académie Julian in Paris for a year, where they were exposed to the work of Toulouse Lautrec, Jules Chéret and Alphonse Mucha. The brothers returned to America in 1899 and set up residence in Hyde Park, Illinois, and had a studio in Chicago. That year Joseph received his first commission for The Saturday Evening Post, beginning his four –year association. The brothers moved to New York in 1900 and during the next decade the brothers began lucrative long-term relationships with apparel manufacturers including Interwoven Socks, Kuppenheimer & Co., and Cluett Peabody and Co. | The Flapper by F. X. Leyendecker | | Artwork by F. X. Leyendecker for The Flapper | The latter resulted in Joseph Leyendecker’s most important commission when he was hired to develop a series of images for Arrow brand shirt collars. Leyendecker often used his favourite model and partner, Charles Beach. | Charles Beach by J. C. Leyendecker | In 1914 the Leyendeckers and Charles Beach moved into a large home and studio in New Rochelle, New York, where J.C. would remain for the rest of his life. During World War 1 Leyendecker produced recruitment posters for the United States military. The 1920s saw Leyendecker at the peak of his career, with some of his most recognisable work completed during this period, and he himself became recognised as being among America’s pre-eminent commercial artists. (Frank Leyendecker died in 1924). | J. C. Leyender's home in New Rochelle, New York photo: public domain | During World War 1 Leyendecker produced recruitment posters for the United States military. The 1920s saw Leyendecker at the peak of his career, with some of his most recognisable work completed during this period, and he himself became recognised as being among America’s pre-eminent commercial artists. (Frank Leyendecker died in 1924). The 1930s saw a decline in Leyendecker’s popularity, (the shirt, tie and collar industry had seriously declined after 1921), and the Wall Street Crash of 1929 also contributed to Leyendecker’s fall in commissions. His last cover for The Saturday Evening Post was January 2, 1943. | J. C. Leyendecker's last Saturday Evening Post cover | Leyendecker died at his estate in New Rochelle in 1951. Charles Beach died a few months later. Biographical notes adapted form WiKipedia, with thanks. | Leyendecker's monument | This is part 1 of a 10-part series on the works of J. C. Leyendecker: | n.d. At Tea gouache on cardboard with light tan paper facing 34.6 x 35.6 cm The Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York | | n.d. Man Standing graphite on green wove paper 31.8 x 23.7 cm The Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York | | n.d. Seated Woman black watercolour, white gouache and graphite on blue-grey wove paper 18.1 x 23.5 cm The Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York | | 1818 Collier's magazine 5 January 1918 | | 1896 The Century August, Midsummer Holiday Number 1896 commercial lithography in yellow, green, red, and gold | | 1897 "A Mon Ami…" | | 1900 Success Magazine Christmas Number 1900 | | 1900 Success Magazine Christmas Number 1906 | | 1903 The Saturday Evening Post 16 May 1903 | | 1904 "Christmas" The Saturday Evening Post December 3 1904 | | 1904 "Christmas" The Saturday Evening Post December 3 1904 | | 1904 "Couple on Deckchairs" Collier's magazine cover 18 June 1904 tempera on board | | 1904 Charging Japanese Soldiers | | 1904 The Club-Fellow & Washington Mirror | | 1904 The Garden Walk | | 1905 "Easter" The Saturday Evening Post April 22 1905 | | 1905 Christmas Dinner | | 1905 Success Magazine February 1905 | | 1905 Success Magazine December 1905 | | 1906 "Cuchulain" The Century Magazine January 1907 | | 1906 "Easter" The Saturday Evening Post April 7 1906 oil on canvas 50.8 x 50.8 cm | | 1906 "Easter" The Saturday Evening Post April 7 1906 | | 1906 "Queen Maeve" The Century Magazine January 1907 | | 1906 "The Crimson Conquest" by Charles Bradford Hudson cover illustration | | 1906 Ridolfo and Gismonda | | 1906 The Saturday Evening Post June 2 1906 | | 1907 "Christmas" The Saturday Evening Post December 7 1907 | | 1907 "Thanksgiving" The Saturday Evening Post November 23 1907 | | 1907 "The Speed God" Collier's magazine January 19 1907 | | 1907 "Vacation" Collier's magazine cover illustration oil on canvas @ American Illustrators Gallery, New York | | 1907 Arrow Collars and Cluett Shirts artwork | | 1907 Arrow Collars and Cluett Shirts advertisement | | 1907 Collier's' magazine 26 October 1907 artwork | | 1907 Collier's' magazine 26 October 1907 | | 1907 Cuchulain In Battle | | 1907 Harvard Crew Team advertisement for Howard Watch Company oil on canvas 76.2 x 55.9 cm | | 1907 Success Magazine March 1907 | | 1907 The Saturday Evening Post October 5 1907 | | 1907 The Saturday Evening Post July 6 1907 artwork | | 1907 The Saturday Evening Post July 6 1907 | | 1908 "February 29 1908" The Saturday Evening Post February 29 1908 | | 1908 "Independence Day" The Saturday Evening Post July 4 1908 artwork | | 1908 "Independence Day" The Saturday Evening Post July 4 1908 | | 1908 Collier's magazine | | 1908 The Punter | | 1908 The Saturday Evening Post April 11 1908 | | 1908 The Saturday Evening Post December 19 1908 | | 1908 The Saturday Evening Post December 26 1908 | | 1909 "1910" The Saturday Evening Post January 1 1910 artwork | | "1910" The Saturday Evening Post January 1 1910 |


--- [Events from October 3, 2025 – February 13 – SeattleArtists.com] ---
Bainbridge Island Museum of Art 550 Winslow Way East, Bainbridge Island, WA, United States Seattle native Mare Blocker shares 50 years of making artists’ books. Blocker proves that paper and ink are all you need to bring a world to life. Her retrospective focuses on four themes of her life: Fun & Games, Science & Nature, Myths & Legends, and Waterlife. Blocker’s, whimsy, honesty, and daring will entrance you […] Bainbridge Island Museum of Art 550 Winslow Way East, Bainbridge Island, WA, United States BIMA displays the largest selection ever of artwork in the Permanent Art Collection (PAC). Art will be featured on a rotating basis, making this a great opportunity to review the PAC at the twelve-year mark, and to reflect on and inform our collecting priorities for the coming years. Included are favorite works by Humaira Abid, […] Bainbridge Island Museum of Art 550 Winslow Way East, Bainbridge Island, WA, United States Aisha Harrison (Olympia) presents work created over the past four years in clay, bronze, paper collage, and mixed media. Porous Body, Harrison’s first solo museum exhibition, speaks to their focus on life cycles – both human and in nature, while experiencing the world through a mixed-race, queer, mothering lens. It is a confluence of a spiritual […] Holiday Gifts at Gallery North Step into the festive spirit this December at Gallery North in Downtown Edmonds with an inspiring holiday-themed exhibition. From December 1 through December 31, immerse yourself in a display of fine art and gift items crafted by 17 talented local artists, each bringing their unique vision to the holiday season. […] It’s time to dress to the nines, pour the good sake, and swing into the holiday season with Sake Noire at Porter. Join us for an elegant two-night affair featuring acclaimed trumpet player Jun Iida, returning after his secret October set for what’s sure to be the party of the year. We’re transforming Porter into […] ArtX Contemporary 512 1st Avenue S, Seattle, WA, United States Celebrating three decades of global art and cultural exchange, ArtX Contemporary presents “30 Years, 1,000 Stories”, a lively group exhibition that gathers artists whose diverse practices and perspectives form a vivid tapestry of the gallery’s living narrative. Together, their works trace the threads of ArtX Contemporary’s story — one defined by curiosity, inclusion, and a […] It’s time to dress to the nines, pour the good sake, and swing into the holiday season with Sake Noire at Porter. Join us for an elegant two-night affair featuring acclaimed trumpet player Jun Iida, returning after his secret October set for what’s sure to be the party of the year. We’re transforming Porter into […] ArtX Contemporary 512 1st Avenue S, Seattle, WA, United States Celebrating three decades of global art and cultural exchange, ArtX Contemporary presents “30 Years, 1,000 Stories”, a lively group exhibition that gathers artists whose diverse practices and perspectives form a vivid tapestry of the gallery’s living narrative. Together, their works trace the threads of ArtX Contemporary’s story — one defined by curiosity, inclusion, and a […] Danaca Design Gallery 5625 University Way NE, Seattle Exhibition Dates: June 20- July 20, 2025 Opening Reception: June 22, Sunday 1-3pm, RSVP HERE Location: Danaca Design, 5625 University Way NE, Seattle, WA 98105 See website for updated hours: https://danacadesigngallery.myshopify.com/pages/hours About the Exhibition: “From Wave to Shining Wave” is a showcase of both material and legacy. It is deeply rooted in mokume-gane, a unique layering of metals first developed in […] It’s time to dress to the nines, pour the good sake, and swing into the holiday season with Sake Noire at Porter. Join us for an elegant two-night affair featuring acclaimed trumpet player Jun Iida, returning after his secret October set for what’s sure to be the party of the year. We’re transforming Porter into […] Artworks 201 2nd Ave S, Edmonds, WA, United States We invite you to join painters of all sorts that come every Thursday to paint! We welcome oil and acrylic painters in our Great Room each week. Imagine: the perfect place to spread out, paint on a regular basis and commit to your art practice. BONUS: our new LED lighting provides shadowless light to ease […] ArtX Contemporary 512 1st Avenue S, Seattle, WA, United States Celebrating three decades of global art and cultural exchange, ArtX Contemporary presents “30 Years, 1,000 Stories”, a lively group exhibition that gathers artists whose diverse practices and perspectives form a vivid tapestry of the gallery’s living narrative. Together, their works trace the threads of ArtX Contemporary’s story — one defined by curiosity, inclusion, and a […]


--- [Joseph Christian Leyendecker - Artvee] ---
Joseph Christian Leyendecker was a German-American illustrator. He is considered to be one of the preeminent American illustrators of the early 20th century. He is best known for his poster, book and advertising illustrations, the trade character known as The Arrow Collar Man, and his numerous covers for The Saturday Evening Post. Between 1896 and 1950, Leyendecker painted more than 400 magazine covers. During the Golden Age of American Illustration, for The Saturday Evening Post alone, J. C. Leyendecker produced 322 covers, as well as many advertisement illustrations for its interior pages. No other artist, until the arrival of Norman Rockwell two decades later, was so solidly identified with one publication. Leyendecker "virtually invented the whole idea of modern magazine design." Joseph Christian Leyendecker ('J.C.' or 'Joe') was born on March 23, 1874, at Montabaur in western Germany, a tiny village 18km east of the Rhine, to Peter Leyendecker (1838–1916) and Elizabeth Ortseifen Leyendecker (1845–1905). Joseph was the first-born son, and his brother Francis Xavier was born three years later. A sister, Mary Augusta, the third and last child, arrived after the family emigrated to America. In 1882, the Leyendecker family immigrated to Chicago, Illinois, where Elizabeth's brother Adam Ortseifen was vice-president of the successful McAvoy Brewing Company. After working in late adolescence for a Chicago engraving firm, J. Manz & Company, and completing his first commercial commission of 60 Bible illustrations for the Powers Brothers Company, J. C. sought formal artistic training at the school of the Chicago Art Institute. In 1895 the April-September issue of Inland Printer had an introduction to J.C. Leyendecker. The article described his work for J. Manz & Company as well as his intention to study in Paris. The article also featured a sketch and two book covers he had illustrated. The book covers were provided courtesy of E.A. Weeks. E.A. Weeks was a Chicago Publisher between 1893 and 1899.[1] In this same year, J.C. Leyendecker created his first poster. It was also for E.A. Weeks. The poster was for the book One Fair Daughter by Frank Frankfort Moore. [2] After studying drawing and anatomy under John H. Vanderpoel at the Chicago Art Institute, J. C. and younger brother Frank enrolled in the Académie Julian in Paris for a year, where they were exposed to the work of Toulouse-Lautrec, Jules Chéret, and also Alphonse Mucha, a leader in the French Art Nouveau movement. In 1899, the Leyendecker brothers returned to America and set up residence in an apartment in Hyde Park, Illinois. They had a studio in Chicago's Fine Arts Building at 410 South Michigan Ave. On May 20 of that year, Joe received his first commission for a Saturday Evening Post cover – the beginning of his forty-four-year association with the most popular magazine in the country. Ultimately he would produce 322 covers for the magazine, introducing many iconic visual images and traditions including the New Year's Baby, the pudgy red-garbed rendition of Santa Claus, flowers for Mother's Day, and firecrackers on the 4th of July. In 1900, Joe, Frank, and their sister Mary moved to New York City, then the center of the US commercial art, advertising and publishing industries. During the next decade, both brothers began lucrative long-term working relationships with apparel manufactures including Interwoven Socks, Hartmarx, B. Kuppenheimer & Co., and Cluett Peabody & Company. The latter resulted in Leyendecker's most important commission when he was hired to develop a series of images of the Arrow brand of shirt collars. Leyendecker's Arrow Collar Man, as well as the images he later created for Kuppenheimer Suits and Interwoven Socks, came to define the fashionable American male during the early decades of the twentieth century. Leyendecker often used his favorite model and partner Charles Beach (1881–1954). Another important commission for Leyendecker was from Kellogg's, the breakfast food manufacturer. As part of a major advertising campaign, he created a series of twenty "Kellogg's Kids" to promote Kellogg's Corn Flakes. In 1914, the Leyendeckers, accompanied by Charles Beach, moved into a large home and art studio in New Rochelle, New York, where J. C. would reside for the remainder of his life. During the first World War, in addition to his many commissions for magazine covers and men's fashion advertisements, J. C. also painted recruitment posters for the United States military and the war effort. The 1920s were in many ways the apex of Leyendecker's career, with some of his most recognizable work being completed during this time. Modern advertising had come into its own, with Leyendecker widely regarded as among the preeminent American commercial artists. This popularity extended beyond the commercial, and into Leyendecker's personal life, where he and Charles Beach hosted large galas attended by people of consequence from all sectors. The parties they hosted at their New Rochelle home/studio were important social and celebrity making events. As the 1920s marked the apex of J. C. Leyendecker's career, so the 1930s marked the beginning of its decline. Around 1930–31, Cluett, Peabody, & Co. ceased using Leyendecker's illustrations in its advertisements for shirts and ties as the collar industry seriously declined after 1921. During this time, the always shy Leyendecker became more and more reclusive, rarely speaking with people outside of his sister Mary Augusta and Charles (Frank had died in 1924 as a result of an addiction-riddled lifestyle). Perhaps in reaction to his pervasive popularity in the previous decade, or as a result of the new economic reality following the Wall Street Crash of 1929, the number of commissions Leyendecker received steadily declined. In 1936, the editor at the Saturday Evening Post for all of Leyendecker's career up to that point, George Horace Lorimer, retired, and was replaced by Wesley Winans Stout (1937–1942) and then Ben Hibbs (1942–1962), both of whom rarely commissioned Leyendecker to illustrate covers. Leyendecker's last cover for the Saturday Evening Post was of a New Year Baby for January 2, 1943, thus ending the artist's most lucrative and celebrated string of commissions. New commissions continued to filter in, but slowly. Among the most prominent were posters for the United States Department of War, in which Leyendecker depicted commanding officers of the armed forces encouraging the purchases of bonds to support the nation's efforts in World War II. Leyendecker died on July 25, 1951, at his estate in New Rochelle of an acute coronary occlusion.


--- [Illustrator J. C. Leyendecker - Guide to Value, Marks, History ...] ---
Illustrator J. C. Leyendecker J. C. Leyendecker - Description Joseph Christian Leyendecker was born on March 23, 1874, in Montabaur, Germany. His brother Francis Xavier Leyendecker, born three years later, also became an illustrator. In 1882, the Leyendecker family immigrated to Chicago following the birth of their youngest child, Mary Augusta. J. C. Leyendecker - History Leyendecker worked at J. Manz & Company, a Chicago engraving firm. While there, he received a commission to create 60 Bible illustrations for the Power Brothers Company. Leyendecker enrolled at the Chicago Art Institute, where he studied anatomy and drawing under the tutelage of John Vanderpool. J.C. and his brother Francis Xavier traveled to Paris and enrolled at the Académie Julian for a year and also studied at Académie Colarossi. While in Paris, J.C. had a one-person show at two salons. Upon returning to America in 1899, J.C. and his brother established an apartment residence in Chicago, Illinois’s Hyde Park neighborhood, and a studio in Chicago’s Fine Arts building located at 410 South Michigan Avenue. Leyendecker received his first cover commission for The Saturday Evening Post that same year. His association with the magazine lasted until 1943. In 1900, J.C., Francis, and Mary moved to New York City. There the brothers began a long career providing illustrations for advertisements to apparel manufacturers. Leyendecker created the “Arrow Collar Man” for Cluett Peabody & Company in 1905. Leyendecker quickly gained a reputation for his images featuring athletic men with strong jaws wearing perfectly tailored clothes. Charles Beach, his partner, often served as the model for his artwork. In 1914, Leyendecker and Charles Beach moved into a large home and studio in New Rochelle, New York. During World War I, Leyendecker designed several recruiting posters. Leyendecker’s career peaked in the 1920s. In 1931, Cluett Peabody ended its relationship with Leyendecker, and he became increasingly more reclusive, restricting his contacts to Frank and Mary. The number of commissions he received steadily declined. When The Saturday Evening Post’s editor George Lorimer retired in 1936, his two immediate successors reduced the number of cover commissions. Besides images for a few World War II posters, Leyendecker’s last commission for The Saturday Evening Post was the “New Year’s Baby” for the January 2, 1943 issue. When men’s styles changed following World War II, Leyendecker’s career slumped, and he had to curb his extravagant lifestyle. J.C. Leyendecker died on July 25, 1951. He left his estate to Charles Beach, his lover, and model. Much of his original artwork sold for $75.00 each at a rummage sale. What is the Value of your J. C. Leyendecker collectibles? View more in our J. C. Leyendecker Price Guide. J. C. Leyendecker In Price Guide J. C. Leyendecker - Identification & Value Illustrator collectors focus on two distinct types of material. The first group collects the original artwork used to create the final printed images. Leyendecker worked in a variety of media, and his paintings and drawings have an active secondary market. The second group collects illustrator prints and objects in or on which the artwork appears. Leyendecker specialized in creating images of sleek muscle-men who exhibited poise and perfection, whether at the dinner table or on the sports field. He also was known for his depiction of apple-cheeked children and elegant women. Leyendecker created illustrations for advertising, magazine covers, and posters. His “The Arrow Collar Man” is an advertising icon. He also provided illustrations for books such as The Dolly Dialogues (1895), The Pit: The Epic of Wheat (1903), Ridolfo (1906), and The Crimson Conquest (1908), and The Voice in the Rice (1910). Leyendecker designed over 400 magazine covers, 322 of which he did for The Saturday Evening Post. Popular repeat theme images from The Saturday Evening Post included Easter, flowers for Mother’s Day, firecrackers for the Fourth of July, Thanksgiving, a plump, red-garbed Santa Claus, and the New Year’s Baby. Century, Collier’s, Lady’s Home Journal, Judge, Success Magazine, The Popular Magazine, and Woman’s Home Companion were other magazine cover clients. Leyendecker’s advertisement illustrations promoted a wide variety of products such as luxury automobiles, shirts, and socks. His apparel clients included Cooper Underwear, Hartmax, Interwoven Socks, B. Kuppenheimer & Co., and Cluett Peabody & Company. Leyendecker created the Kellogg Kids for Kellogg’s Corn Flakes. Amoco, Boy Scouts of America, Chesterfield Cigarettes, Cream of Wheat, Franklin Automobiles, Ivory Soap, Liberty Loan campaigns, Overland Automobile, Palmolive Soap, Pan American Coffee, Pierce-Arrow Automobile, U.S. Army, U.S. Marines, U.S. Navy, and Willys-Overland Company were other clients. When buying framed material, sellers rely on the matting and framing to enhance value. It is critical to understand that the worth of any framed item, such as a print, is independent of the combined price of the article, mat, and frame. More often than not, less than one-quarter to one-third of the value rests with the framed object. Many early framed items have a non-acid-free mat or no mat, and/or cardboard or wood backing. When this is the case, do not pay a premium price for the item. Deduct the cost of a new acid-free mat and backing from the asking price. Except for period artwork, interest in J.C. Leyendecker declined considerably in the latter half of the 20th century. Find the Value of your J. C. Leyendecker collectibles. WorthPoint is the largest resource online for identifying, researching and valuing antiques. Explore over 425 Million “sold for” prices with item details and images. paper In Library J. C. Leyendecker - Autographs Extremely complex semi-abstract printed Arts and Crafts-style signature with elongated “J” three lines long with interlocking “C” at top and extended drops of the “y” and “k.” Identify your J. C. Leyendecker Autographs. Further Reading on J. C. Leyendecker Books and Periodicals Jackson, Denis. The Price & Identification Guide to J. C. and F. X. Leyendecker, Second Edition. Published by the author, 1992. Ankele, Daniel and Denise Ankele. Joseph Christian Leyendecker: 225 Golden Age Illustrations – Annotated Series. Ankele Publishing, 2004. Cutler, Laurence, and Judy Goffman. J. C. Leyendecker: American Imagist. New York: Harry N. Abrams, 2008. Hearst, William. The Art of Illustration: Original Works of Howard Chandler Christy And J. C. Leyendecker. Hearst Corporation, 2008. Homoerotic Studio. J. C. Leyendecker: A Gallery of Beefcakes. CreateSpace Independent Publishing Platform, 2017. Schau, Michael. J. C. Leyendecker. Watson-Guptil Publications, 1974. Steine, Kent, and Frederic Taraba. The J. C. Leyendecker Collection: American Illustrators Poster Book. Collectors Press, 1995. Web Resources American Art Archives. “J. C. Leyendecker (Joseph Christian) (1847-1951).” Americanartarchivdes.com. Illustration History. “J. C. Leyendecker.” Illustrationhistory.org. JVJ Publishing Illustrators. “J. C. Leyendecker.” Bibp.com. Oatman-Stanford, Hunter. “Before Rockwell, a Gay Artist Defined the Perfect American Male.” Collectorsweekly.com. Related Dictionary Pages: Illustrator Rockwell Kent, Illustrator Violet Oakley, Illustrator Rolf Armstrong.
