=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Google Doodle - Wikipedia]
The first Google Doodle, on August 30, 1998, which celebrated Burning Man A Google Doodle is a special, temporary alteration of the logo on Google 's homepages intended to commemorate holidays, events, achievements, and historical figures. The first Google Doodle honored the 1998 edition of the long-running annual Burning Man event in Black Rock City, Nevada, and was designed by co-founders ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Google_Doodle

[First Artificial intelligence Google Doodle Honors Bach]
Google released its first ever artificial intelligence-powered doodle this week to honor the German composer Johann Sebastian Bach's birthday. The doodle was released Thursday and was set to run ...
URL: https://www.newsweek.com/google-doodle-bach-birthday-when-march-21-22-1366826

[12 Months of the Year - timeanddate.com]
Our current Gregorian calendar and its predecessor, the Julian calendar, both have 12 months. However, the month names we use today are derived from the Roman calendar, which initially had only 10 months, with the calendar year starting in March (Martius).
URL: https://www.timeanddate.com/calendar/months/

[Google Doodle - Wikiwand]
A Google Doodle is a special, temporary alteration of the logo on Google 's homepages intended to commemorate holidays, events, achievements, and historical figures. The first Google Doodle honored the 1998 edition of the long-running annual Burning Man event in Black Rock City, Nevada, and was designed by co-founders Larry Page and Sergey Brin to notify users of their absence in case the ...
URL: https://www.wikiwand.com/en/articles/Google_Doodle

[Month - Wikipedia]
A month is a unit of time, used with calendars, that is approximately as long as a natural phase cycle of the Moon; the words month and Moon are cognates.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Month


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Google Doodle - Wikipedia] ---
A Google Doodle is a special, temporary alteration of the logo on Google's homepages intended to commemorate holidays, events, achievements, and historical figures. The first Google Doodle honored the 1998 edition of the long-running annual Burning Man event in Black Rock City, Nevada, and was designed by co-founders Larry Page and Sergey Brin to notify users of their absence in case the servers crashed. Early marketing employee Susan Wojcicki then spearheaded subsequent Doodles, including an alien landing on Google and additional custom logos for major holidays. Google Doodles were designed by an outside contractor, cartoonist Ian David Marsden until 2000, when Page and Brin asked public relations officer Dennis Hwang to design a logo for Bastille Day. Since then, a team of employees called Doodlers have organized and published the Doodles.
Initially, Doodles were neither animated nor hyperlinked—they were simply images with tooltips describing the subject or expressing a holiday greeting. Doodles increased in both frequency and complexity by the beginning of the 2010s. On October 31, 2000, the first animated Doodle celebrated Halloween. On May 21, 2010, the first interactive Doodle appeared later celebrating Pac-Man, and hyperlinks also began to be added to Doodles, usually linking to a search results page for the subject of the Doodle. By 2014, Google had published over 2,000 regional and international Doodles throughout its homepages, often featuring guest artists, musicians, and personalities. By 2024, the Doodlers team had created over 5,000 Doodles for Google's homepages around the world.


--- [First Artificial intelligence Google Doodle Honors Bach] ---
Google released its first ever artificial intelligence-powered doodle this week to honor the German composer Johann Sebastian Bach's birthday. The doodle was released Thursday and was set to run through Friday for a full 48-hour period. Bach was born on March 21 on the Julian calendar that is no longer used, today on the Gregorian calendar his birthday was be March 31. Google however, was honoring the composer on the original date of his birthday. The doodle was made available in more than 70 countries around the world and in most of those places would be available for the full 48-hour period. The doodle allows users to compose their own melody and then the AI built into the doodle will transform that melody so that it matches the style of composer Bach. There are more features inside of the doodle that allows users to also hear their melody in a rock genre and to see how the doodle transforms the notes to sound like Bach. Google plans to release a behind the scene video of the doodle on Friday for those interested in how the doodle came to be. The doodle was created through a collaboration between Google's Magenta, Google's People + AI Research team and doodle teams. Magenta is a project that uses machine learning to make music in a variety of ways including helping smooth transitions and harmozine. Google's PAIR program conducts research and creates technologies that help shape the approach to AI. Through Magenta, the Google team was able to train a model called Coconet that provided the machine learning behind the doodle. It was able to identify Bach's style using a dataset of over 300 of Bach's harmoies to better help match the melodies doodle users create to the composer's work. "Coconet is trained to restore Bach's music from fragments: we take a piece from Bach, randomly erase some notes, and ask the model to guess the missing notes from context. The result is a versatile model of counterpoint that accepts arbitrarily incomplete scores as input and works out complete scores," said the blog post from Magenta. While creating music users of the doodle will also have a chance to learn more about Bach and his music. Once the doodle is off the hompeage users can still access it in the doodle archive online.


--- [12 Months of the Year - timeanddate.com] ---
Each month has either 28, 30, or 31 days during a common year, which has 365 days. During leap years, which occur nearly every 4 years, we add an extra (intercalary) day, Leap Day, on 29 February, making leap years 366 days long. This is to keep our current calendar aligned with the solar year and astronomical seasons marked by equinoxes and solstices. The 12 Months The Gregorian calendar consists of the following 12 months: - January (31 days) - March (31 days) - April (30 days) - May (31 days) - June (30 days) - July (31 days) - August (31 days) - September (30 days) - October (31 days) - November (30 days) - December (31 days) Tracking the Moon’s Orbit The months originated as a way to mark time and break up the year into shorter periods based on the Moon’s orbit around Earth. The word month is even derived from the word Moon. As far as we know, months were first used in Mesopotamia sometime between the years 500 BCE and 400 BCE to measure the natural period related to the lunar month, or synodic month, which is the time it takes for the Moon to go through all the Moon phases. Moon phases in your cityHow Many Have 28, 29, 30, or 31 Days? The Gregorian calendar has 4 months that are 30 days long and 7 months that are 31 days long. February is the only month that is 28 days long in common years and 29 days long in leap years. From 10 to 12 Months Our current Gregorian calendar and its predecessor, the Julian calendar, both have 12 months. However, the month names we use today are derived from the Roman calendar, which initially had only 10 months, with the calendar year starting in March (Martius). Calendar with holidaysThe Romans named some of the months after their position in the calendar year: September means the 7th month, October the 8th, November the 9th, and December the 10th month. However, when January and February were eventually added and the beginning of the calendar year was moved to January, the position of these months no longer corresponded with the original meaning of their names. Today, we still call the 9th month of the year September, the 7th month. The Islamic calendar, the Hebrew calendar, and the Hindu calendar also use months to divide up the year. Although the Gregorian calendar is the most commonly used calendar today, other calendars are still used in many parts of the world to calculate certain holidays and annual feasts. Old Names of Months Months in the ancient Roman calendar include:


--- [Google Doodle - Wikiwand] ---
13 captures 13 Sep 2024 - 13 Jan 2026 Dec JAN Feb 13 2025 2026 2027 success fail About this capture COLLECTED BY Collection: Save Page Now Outlinks TIMESTAMPS The Wayback Machine - http://web.archive.org/web/20260113233831/https://www.wikiwand.com/en/articles/Google_doodle English Sign in Top Qs Timeline Chat Perspective All Articles Dictionary Quotes Map Remove ads Loading article...


--- [Month - Wikipedia] ---
A month is a unit of time, used with calendars, that is approximately as long as a natural phase cycle of the Moon; the words month and Moon are cognates. The traditional concept of months arose with the cycle of Moon phases; such lunar months ("lunations") are synodic months and last approximately 29.53 days, making for roughly  12.37 such months in one Earth year. From excavated tally sticks, researchers have deduced that people counted days in relation to the Moon's phases as early as the Paleolithic age. Synodic months, based on the Moon's orbital period with respect to the Earth–Sun line, are still the basis of many calendars today and are used to divide the year.
Calendars that developed from the Roman calendar system, such as the internationally used Gregorian calendar, divide the year into 12 months, each of which lasts between 28 and 31 days. The names of the months were Anglicized from various Latin names and events important to Rome, except for the months 9–12, which are named after the Latin numerals 7–10 (septem, octo, novem, and decem) because they were originally the seventh through tenth months in the Roman calendar. In the modern Gregorian calendar, the only month with a variable number of days is the second month, February, which has 29 days during a leap year and 28 days otherwise.
