=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Time Converter and World Clock - Conversion at a Glance - Pick best ...]
World Time Buddy (WTB) is a convenient world clock, a time zone converter, and an online meeting scheduler. It's one of the best online productivity tools for those often finding themselves traveling, in flights, in online meetings or just calling friends and family abroad.
URL: https://www.worldtimebuddy.com/

[Wikipedia]
Wikipedia is a free online encyclopedia, created and edited by volunteers around the world and hosted by the Wikimedia Foundation.
URL: https://www.wikipedia.org/

[Date Estimator - GDHistory - geometrydash.eu]
Timestamp to level ID Timestamp
URL: https://history.geometrydash.eu/date_estimator/

[Starlink]
Starlink provides high-speed, low-latency internet with more than 99.9% average uptime and reliable connectivity around the globe. Designed to endure the elements - Starlink Kits can melt snow and withstand sleet, heavy rain, and harsh winds. Learn more here.
URL: https://starlink.com/

[Attorney Generals of India - Duties, Functions, Rights and Limitations]
List Representing the Attorney Generals of our Country ; 5. L.N. Sinha. 9 August 1979 - 8 August 1983 ; 6. K. Parasaran. 9 August 1983 - 8 December 1989 ; 7. Soli ...
URL: https://www.vedantu.com/general-knowledge/list-of-attorney-generals-of-india


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Time Converter and World Clock - Conversion at a Glance - Pick best ...] ---
About this World Clock / ConverterWorld Time Buddy (WTB) is a convenient world clock, a time zone converter, and an online meeting scheduler. It's one of the best online productivity tools for those often finding themselves traveling, in flights, in online meetings or just calling friends and family abroad. Carefully thought out design lets it effortlessly compare multiple time zones at a glance, plan conference calls, webinars, international phone calls and web meetings. It also aids with business travel & tracking of market hours. WTB was born out of frustration with existing world clock apps, online meeting and time conversion tools. Most of them have given up on providing quality business tools and on delighting their users. | Getting Started |


--- [Wikipedia] ---
Wikipedia The Free Encyclopedia Wikipedia 25 years of the free encyclopedia English 7,141,000+ articles 日本語 1,491,000+ 記事 Deutsch 3.099.000+ Artikel Русский 2 087 000+ статей Français 2 740 000+ articles Español 2.095.000+ artículos Italiano 1.957.000+ voci 中文 1,524,000+ 条目 / 條目 Português 1.165.000+ artigos Polski 1 685 000+ haseł Unlock birthday surprises on Wikipedia Learn how to turn on Birthday mode so you and Baby Globe can explore Wikipedia together! Unlock birthday surprises on Wikipedia Learn how to turn on Birthday mode so you and Baby Globe can explore Wikipedia together! Search Wikipedia Afrikaans Shqip العربية Asturianu Azərbaycanca Български 閩南語 / Bân-lâm-gú বাংলা Беларуская Català Čeština Cymraeg Dansk Deutsch Eesti Ελληνικά English Español Esperanto Euskara فارسی Français Galego 한국어 Հայերեն हिन्दी Hrvatski Bahasa Indonesia Italiano עברית ქართული Ladin Latina Latviešu Lietuvių Magyar Македонски Malagasy मराठी مصرى Bahasa Melayu Bahaso Minangkabau မြန်မာဘာသာ Nederlands 日本語 Norsk (bokmål) Norsk (nynorsk) Нохчийн Oʻzbekcha / Ўзбекча Polski Português Қазақша / Qazaqşa / قازاقشا Română Simple English Sinugboanong Binisaya Slovenčina Slovenščina Српски / Srpski Srpskohrvatski / Српскохрватски Suomi Svenska Kiswahili தமிழ் Татарча / Tatarça తెలుగు ภาษาไทย Тоҷикӣ تۆرکجه Türkçe Українська اردو Tiếng Việt Winaray 中文 Русский 粵語 Search Read Wikipedia in your language 1,000,000+ articles العربية Deutsch English Español فارسی Français Italiano مصرى Nederlands 日本語 Polski Português Sinugboanong Binisaya Svenska Українська Tiếng Việt Winaray 中文 Русский 100,000+ articles Afrikaans Shqip Asturianu Azərbaycanca Български 閩南語 / Bân-lâm-gú বাংলা Беларуская Català Čeština Cymraeg Dansk Eesti Ελληνικά Esperanto Euskara Galego 한국어 Հայերեն हिन्दी Hrvatski Bahasa Indonesia עברית ქართული Ladin Latina Latviešu Lietuvių Magyar Македонски Malagasy मराठी Bahasa Melayu Bahaso Minangkabau မြန်မာဘာသာ Norsk bokmål nynorsk Нохчийн Oʻzbekcha / Ўзбекча Қазақша / Qazaqşa / قازاقشا Română Simple English Slovenčina Slovenščina Српски / Srpski Srpskohrvatski / Српскохрватски Suomi Kiswahili தமிழ் Татарча / Tatarça తెలుగు ภาษาไทย Тоҷикӣ تۆرکجه Türkçe اردو 粵語 10,000+ articles Bahsa Acèh Alemannisch አማርኛ Aragonés Արեւմտահայերէն Bahasa Hulontalo Basa Bali Bahasa Banjar Basa Banyumasan Башҡортса Беларуская (тарашкевіца) Bikol Central বিষ্ণুপ্রিয়া মণিপুরী Boarisch Bosanski Brezhoneg Чӑвашла Dagbanli الدارجة Diné Bizaad Emigliàn–Rumagnòl Fiji Hindi Føroyskt Frysk Fulfulde Gaeilge Gàidhlig گیلکی ગુજરાતી Hak-kâ-ngî / 客家語 Hausa Hornjoserbsce Ido Igbo Ilokano Interlingua Interlingue Ирон Íslenska Jawa ಕನ್ನಡ Kapampangan ភាសាខ្មែរ Kotava Kreyòl Ayisyen Kurdî / كوردی کوردیی ناوەندی Кыргызча Кырык мары Lëtzebuergesch Lìgure Limburgs Lombard मैथिली മലയാളം მარგალური مازِرونی Mìng-dĕ̤ng-ngṳ̄ / 閩東語 Монгол Napulitano नेपाल भाषा Nordfriisk Occitan Олык марий ଓଡି଼ଆ অসমীযা় ਪੰਜਾਬੀ پنجابی (شاہ مکھی) پښتو Piemontèis Plattdüütsch Qaraqalpaqsha Qırımtatarca Runa Simi Русиньскый संस्कृतम् ᱥᱟᱱᱛᱟᱲᱤ سرائیکی Саха Тыла Scots ChiShona Sicilianu සිංහල سنڌي Ślůnski Soomaaliga Basa Sunda Taclḥit Tagalog ၽႃႇသႃႇတႆး ⵜⴰⵎⴰⵣⵉⵖⵜ ⵜⴰⵏⴰⵡⴰⵢⵜ tolışi chiTumbuka Basa Ugi Vèneto Volapük Walon 文言 吴语 ייִדיש Yorùbá Zazaki Žemaitėška isiZulu नेपाली ꯃꯤꯇꯩ ꯂꯣꯟ 1,000+ articles Dzhudezmo / לאדינו Адыгэбзэ Ænglisc Anarâškielâ अंगिका Аԥсшәа armãneashti Arpitan atikamekw ܐܬܘܪܝܐ Avañe’ẽ Авар Aymar Batak Toba Betawi भोजपुरी Bislama བོད་ཡིག Буряад Chavacano de Zamboanga Chichewa Corsu Vahcuengh / 話僮 Dagaare Davvisámegiella Deitsch ދިވެހިބަސް Dolnoserbski Эрзянь Estremeñu Eʋegbe Farefare Fɔ̀ngbè Furlan Gaelg Gagauz ГӀалгӀай Ghanaian Pidgin Gĩkũyũ 赣语 / 贛語 Gungbe 𐌲𐌿𐍄𐌹𐍃𐌺 Хальмг ʻŌlelo Hawaiʻi Ikinyarwanda Jaku Iban Kabɩyɛ Kadazandusun Yerwa Kanuri Kaszëbsczi Kernewek Коми Перем коми Kongo कोंकणी / Konknni كٲشُر Kriyòl Gwiyannen Kumoring Kʋsaal ພາສາລາວ Лакку Latgaļu Лезги Li Niha Lingála Lingua Franca Nova livvinkarjala lojban Luganda Madhurâ Malti Mandailing Māori Mfantse Mirandés Мокшень ဘာသာ မန် Moore ߒߞߏ Na Vosa Vaka-Viti Nāhuatlahtōlli Naijá Nedersaksisch Nouormand / Normaund Novial Afaan Oromoo ပအိုဝ်ႏဘာႏသာႏ Pangasinán Pangcah Papiamentu Patois Pfälzisch Picard Къарачай–малкъар Ripoarisch Rumantsch Руски Sakizaya Gagana Sāmoa Sardu Seediq Seeltersk Sesotho Sesotho sa Leboa Setswana ꠍꠤꠟꠐꠤ Словѣ́ньскъ / ⰔⰎⰑⰂⰡⰐⰠⰔⰍⰟ Sranantongo SiSwati Reo tahiti Taqbaylit Tarandíne Tayal Tetun Tok Pisin toki pona faka Tonga Türkmençe Twi Tyap Тыва дыл Удмурт ئۇيغۇرچه Vepsän võro West-Vlams Wolof isiXhosa Zeêuws алтай тил अवधी डोटेली ತುಳು ရခိုင် 100+ articles Bajau Sama Bamanankan Chamoru རྫོང་ཁ Igala ᐃᓄᒃᑎᑐᑦ / Inuktitut Iñupiak isiNdebele seSewula Jju Nawat Nupe Obolo पालि pinayuanan Ποντιακά Romani čhib Ikirundi Sängö ᥖᥭᥰᥖᥬᥳᥑᥨᥒᥰ ትግርኛ Thuɔŋjäŋ ᏣᎳᎩ Tsėhesenėstsestotse Xitsonga Tshivenḓa Wayuunaiki адыгабзэ Other languages


--- [Date Estimator - GDHistory - geometrydash.eu] ---
GDHistory Home Browse Daily Date Estimator API Search ID to date Level ID User ID Comment ID Profile Post ID Level ID Comment ID Estimate Date to level ID Date Estimate Timestamp to level ID Timestamp Estimate Results


--- [Starlink] ---
JavaScript must be enabled on your browser, otherwise content or functionality of starlink.com may be limited or unavailable.


--- [Attorney Generals of India - Duties, Functions, Rights and Limitations] ---
Present Attorney Generals of India – K.K Venugopal, All you Need to know About his Position (Image will be uploaded soon) In India, the Attorney General is being appointed by the President of India as directed under Article 76(1) of the Constitution. The Attorney General enjoys his tenure till the pleasure of the President of India. K.K. Venugopal is the current Attorney General of India. K.K. Venugopal was appointed by President Pranab Mukherjee of India. He took his position on June 30 since the year 2017. In this content, we will harness information about the Office of the Attorney General of India and look into the legal matters performed in this department. Also, we will present the list of attorney generals of India. About K.K. Venugopal – The Present Attorney General of India The Attorney General must be a person who is qualified to be appointed as a Supreme Judge in the Supreme Court. Articles 76 and 78 of the Indian constitution, direct that there should be an Attorney General of India who will represent the highest law officer of the country. The Attorney General of India shall assist the Central Government in legal matters. Our present Attorney Generals of India is K.K. Venugopal is the 15th Attorney General appointed by the president of India. He was appointed by President Pranab Mukherjee and he took his charge from 30th June from the year 2017. Next, we will present the list of names of all the Attorney General of India List Representing the Attorney Generals of our Country Our first attorney general of India is M.C Setalvad who served the longest term from 28th of January in the year 1950 to 1st of March 1963. Apart from the first attorney generals of India, we will enlist all the attorney generals of India who followed right after him. Appointment and Removal of the Attorney General of India – The President Decides As already mentioned, the president of India will appoint the Attorney general of India. The person who is appointed in this respectable position must also be qualified to be appointed as a judge in the Supreme Court of India. This implies: the person should be a citizen of India and also, a judge of some high court serving at least five years in that high court or, he must be an advocate of some high court for at least ten years or, he should be an eminent jurist, and this must be the opinion of the president. Our constitution does not provide any fixed tenure or serving time for the Attorney General, rather he holds office till the pleasure of the president. He remains at a possibility to be removed by the president at any time. There is no exact procedure or any ground mentioned in the constitution for his removal process. The Attorney General will receive such remuneration as the President shall determine. The constitution, in its books, did not fix the remuneration of the AG. What are the Duties and Functions of the Attorney General of India? Below Mentioned are the Duties and Functions of the Attorney General of India: The Attorney General gives advice to the Government of India and with his direction, the legal matters are imposed, all these matters are referred to or assigned to him by the president of India. Attorney General performs other duties which display his legal character. This work or function is referred to or assigned to him by the president of India. AG discharges his functions which are conferred on him by or under the Constitution or under any other law. In Light of Performing His Official Duties: The AG will appear on behalf of the government of India in all the cases fought in the Supreme Court where the Government of India is concerned. The AG also appears on behalf of the government of India in any reference which is made by the president to the Supreme Court under Article 143 of the constitution. He also appears on behalf of the government of India in any case which is fought in a high court in which the Government of India is concerned, if the Government of India requires so to be done. Rights and Limitations Enjoyed and Restricted by the Attorney General of India Following are the Rights discussed by the Attorney General of India: In the performance of his legal duties, he has the full right of audience in all the courts which is present in the territory of India. The AG has the right to speak or to take part in any legal proceedings happening in the Houses of Parliament and also in their joint sittings, but without a right to vote. He has the full authority to speak, this is a right of his. He also can take part in the meeting of any committee of the Parliament of which he is named as a member, but without a right to vote. The AG enjoys all the privileges and immunities as AG which are available to a member of the parliament. The Limitations which are Placed on the Attorney General are as Follows: He cannot advise the government or hold notions against the Government of India. He must not defend the accused persons in criminal cases without the permission of the government of India. He cannot accept the appointment as a director in any company without prior permission from the government. Also, this is to be noted that the AG is not debarred from practicing legal practices privately. AG does not serve as the government servant as he is not paid any fixed salary and his remuneration is decided by the president of India. Did You Know? The Senior advocate named K. K Venugopal presided over as the attorney general, representing the top law officer of the Union government, on 1st of July in the year 2017, succeeding former Attorney general of India Mukul Rohatgi. (Image will be uploaded soon) After his completion of tenure in the year 2020, the Senior advocate K. K Venugopal on Wednesday reappointed as the Attorney General of India for one year, read the law ministry notification. The attorney general generally has a tenure of three years. When Venugopal's first term as AG was about to end in the last year, he made a request to the government of India to give him another one-year tenure as he was advancing in age. He is currently 90 years. One Article Read: "The President is pleased to reappoint Shri K. K Venugopal, Senior Advocate as Attorney General for India for a period of one year with effect from July 1, 2021," this notification was issued by the Department of Legal Affairs under the law ministry. FAQs on List of Attorney Generals of India 1. What do you mean by Solicitor General of India? The Solicitor General of India is the subordinate position of the Attorney General of India. They are termed as the ‘second law officers’ of the country. Solicitor law officers assist the Attorney General, and in turn, they are assisted by the Additional Solicitors General for India. At present, Tushar Mehta is the Solicitor General of India. Just like the Attorney General of India, the Solicitor General and the Additional Solicitors General advise the Government of India and they also appear on behalf of the Union of India. 2. Can Attorney General be a member of Parliament? Yes, the Attorney General of India can be a member of the Parliamentary Committee present in India. The Attorney General of India can also take part in the proceedings of either of the Houses of Parliament.
