=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Who has won the 2017 Kalpana Chawla Award for courage and daring ...]
Q. Who has won the 2017 Kalpana Chawla Award for courage and daring enterprise? Answer: Preethi Srinivasan Notes: Preethi Srinivasan, the former State under-19 cricket captain, has bestowed with the 2017 Kalpana Chawla Award for courage and daring enterprise from Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami during the 71st Independence Day celebrations at Fort St. George in Chennai, Tamil Nadu ...
URL: https://www.gktoday.in/question/who-has-won-the-2017-kalpana-chawla-award-for-cour

[Preethi Srinivasan wins 2017 Kalpana Chawla Award for courage and ...]
Preethi Srinivasan, the former State under-19 cricket captain, has bestowed with the 2017 Kalpana Chawla Award for courage and daring enterprise from Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami during the 71st Independence Day celebrations at Fort St. George in Chennai, Tamil Nadu. Beside her, the Government of Tamil Nadu has also awarded S.P. Thyagarajan with the APJ Abdul Kalam award for ...
URL: https://www.gktoday.in/preethi-srinivasan-wins-2017-kalpana-chawla-award-for-courage-and-daring-enterprise/

[Preethi Srinivasan gets Kalpana Chawla award from Tamil Nadu CM]
The Government of Tamil Nadu also awarded S.P. Thyagarajan with the APJ Abdul Kalam award for discovering a patented drug to treat hepatitis B, the Tamil Nadu Police Housing Corporation Limited ...
URL: https://www.deccanchronicle.com/nation/current-affairs/160817/preethi-srinivasan-gets-kalpana-chawla-award-from-tamil-nadu-cm.html

[Preethi | Toyota Mobility Foundation Mobility Unlimited Challenge]
Preethi Srinivasan is the co-founder of Soulfree, a writer, poet, mouth painter, a social changemaker, spiritual seeker and an inspirational speaker, who was awarded the Kalpana Chawla Award by the government of Tamil Nadu For Courage and Daring Enterprise in 2017. After learning about women with spinal cord injury who are forced to commit suicide by their own families, she began Soulfree, an ...
URL: https://mobilityunlimited.org/people/preethi.html

[Preethi Srinivasan is first disabled woman to win Kalpana Chawla Award ...]
She has now been honoured with the Tamil Nadu government's Kalpana Chawla award for courage and daring enterprise, the first disabled person to get this award in Tamil Nadu. Soul Free is a public charitable trust that helps the severely disabled live a life of dignity and purpose.
URL: https://newzhook.com/story/12798/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Who has won the 2017 Kalpana Chawla Award for courage and daring ...] ---
Q. Who has won the 2017 Kalpana Chawla Award for courage and daring enterprise?Answer: Preethi Srinivasan Notes: Preethi Srinivasan, the former State under-19 cricket captain, has bestowed with the 2017 Kalpana Chawla Award for courage and daring enterprise from Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami during the 71st Independence Day celebrations at Fort St. George in Chennai, Tamil Nadu. Beside her, the Government of Tamil Nadu has also awarded S.P. Thyagarajan with the APJ Abdul Kalam award for discovering a patented drug to treat hepatitis B.


--- [Preethi Srinivasan wins 2017 Kalpana Chawla Award for courage and ...] ---
No content


--- [Preethi Srinivasan gets Kalpana Chawla award from Tamil Nadu CM] ---
Preethi Srinivasan gets Kalpana Chawla award from Tamil Nadu CM Her life turned into a nightmare at the age of 18 after an accident that left her a quadriplegic and confined to a wheelchair. CHENNAI: Multifaceted Preethi Srinivasan, a national level swimmer at the age of eight, was also the youngest to play in the Tamil Nadu women's cricket team. But her life turned into a nightmare at the age of 18 after an accident that left her a quadriplegic and confined to a wheelchair. Breaking the shackles of social stigma and denial, Preethi set up a trust called “Soul Free” for people affected with spinal cord injuries and rose to become the only person with a disability to have ever received the Tamil Nadu government's Kalpana Chawla award for courage and daring enterprise from Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswamy on Tuesday. “It was a regular day almost 17 years ago when I went for a college excursion. Under my feet were receding waves and when I stumbled, I dove in face forward into the water as I was a swimmer. The moment my face went under water, shock waves travelled through my body and I could not stand again,” she said. Preethi who was doing well in academics, was a world class swimmer and the under 19 women's cricket team captain of TN saw her world going upside down as people started ignoring her and respect and admiration turned to pity. To her dismay, her father died a little while after. “That is when it struck me that I have to be on my own someday and realised there is not even one rehabilitation centre for the disabled in India. One fifth of the world's population do not have anywhere to go and India does not even recognise spinal cord injuries as a specific multiple disability,” she said, adding that if a person with a spinal cord injury is treated by somebody who is not trained on the conditions, the victim will die within the first year. As a result, she set up “Soul Free”, a public charitable trust to help the severely disabled live a life of dignity and purpose. It aims to spread knowledge on spinal cord injuries to every school, college and public so that people understand the gravity of the condition. It also strives to provide a support system for people with disabilities and their family via donations, education and employment opportunities. “We are also donating a Para-Olympic sports wheelchair to an athlete this year,” she said. She also works as a full time writer. Thyagarajan receives Kalam award The Government of Tamil Nadu also awarded S.P. Thyagarajan with the APJ Abdul Kalam award for discovering a patented drug to treat hepatitis B, the Tamil Nadu Police Housing Corporation Limited for the use of industrial by-products to manufacture paver blocks and bricks, the department of agriculture for timely risk management through the Pradhan Mantri Faisal Bima Yojana, and the department of commercial taxes for implementation of "Total Solutions" project. K. Satyagopal received a certificate of appreciation for having devised an innovative watering technique for trees. The best social worker award was given to V.P. Elayapari, founder of Cute Trust for serving hundreds of disabled persons for more than 20 years and Krishnammal Jagannathan was conferred an award for outstanding work done for women.


--- [Preethi | Toyota Mobility Foundation Mobility Unlimited Challenge] ---
Preethi Srinivasan India Preethi Srinivasan is the co-founder of Soulfree, a writer, poet, mouth painter, a social changemaker, spiritual seeker and an inspirational speaker, who was awarded the Kalpana Chawla Award by the government of Tamil Nadu For Courage and Daring Enterprise in 2017. After learning about women with spinal cord injury who are forced to commit suicide by their own families, she began Soulfree, an organisation that is working to spread awareness about spinal cord injury. By setting up short-term and long-term rehabilitation centres around India, Soulfree's goal is to provide the support system needed to ensure that persons with spinal-cord injuries and other severe disabilities are able to lead a life of dignity and purpose. Twitter Website


--- [Preethi Srinivasan is first disabled woman to win Kalpana Chawla Award ...] ---
Get-hooked August 30, 2017 Preethi Srinivasan is first disabled woman to win Kalpana Chawla Award from Tamil Nadu government Preethi Srinivasan was a national level swimmer when she was eight years old and was also the youngest to play in the Tamil Nadu women’s cricket team. Her life changed when she was 18 years old after an accident left her a quadriplegic and confined to a wheelchair. Breaking the barriers of social stigma, Preethi set up a trust called Soul Free for people affected with spinal cord injuries. She has now been honoured with the Tamil Nadu government’s Kalpana Chawla award for courage and daring enterprise, the first disabled person to get this award in Tamil Nadu. Soul Free is a public charitable trust that helps the severely disabled live a life of dignity and purpose. It aims to spread knowledge on spinal cord injuries to every school, college and public so that people understand the seriousness of the condition. Soul Free also aims to provide a support system for people with disabilities and their family via donations, education and job opportunities. Watch in Sign Language Support us to make NewzHook Sustainable – Make a Contribution Today We need your continued support to enable us work towards Changing Attitudes towards Disability. Help us in our attempt to share the voices of people with disabilities that enable them to participate in the society on an equal footing!
