=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

['Indian democracy is vibrant' - The Hindu]
Aug 17, 2015 — “Prof. Chandrasekhara Rao was the first Head of Department of Political Science and Public Administration in Andhra University and later on was ...
URL: https://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Visakhapatnam/indian-democracy-is-vibrant/article7548356.ece

[BRAOU - Dr. B.R. Ambedkar University]
BRAOU - Dr. B.R. Ambedkar University Succession of Vice-Chancellor
URL: https://braou.ac.in/successionvc

[Dr. B.R. Ambedkar Open University - Wikipedia]
^ "Telangana government appoints Vice-Chancellors to 10 universities". Telangana Today. 22 May 2021. Retrieved 17 October 2022. ^ "Ghanta Chakrapani is BRAOU VC ...Missing: Prof. RVR Chandrashekar
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dr._B.R._Ambedkar_Open_University

[Managing Higher Education Institutions | - UoH Herald]
Oct 25, 2016 — Prof. RVR Chandrashekar Rao (Political Science) as VC of Dr B R Ambedkar Open University, Hyderabad rvr_chandrasekhar_rao. 14. Prof. Ratna ...
URL: https://herald.uohyd.ac.in/managing-higher-education-institutions/

[Dr B R Ambedkar Open University OFFERED RICH TRIBUTES TO Prof ...]
Feb 9, 2024 · Hyderabad: Prof. RVR Chandrashekar Rao, former Vice-Chancellor of Dr. B. R. Ambedkar Open University, breathed his last on yesterday 9.30 pm. Prof. RVR Chandrashekar Rao, served as Vice-Chancellor of the University from September 25, 1989 to September 24, 1992.
URL: https://telanganasamachar.online/dr-b-r-ambedkar-open-university-offered-rich-tributes-to-prof-rvr-chandrashekar-rao/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- ['Indian democracy is vibrant' - The Hindu] ---
Despite all the differences among ourselves, we have a basic national consensus on democracy and this is what keeps it vibrant, former Vice-Chancellor of Dr. B.R. Ambedkar Open University R.V.R. Chandrasekhar Rao has said. “We live, we fight, we quarrel, but we have a national consensus on the essentials of democracy,” he said, delivering the D.Ch. Tirupathi Raju Memorial Lecture on ‘We can be proud of our polity’ recently organised by the Gayatri Vidya Parishad Centre for Policy Studies. While we may be backward compared to other nations in economic terms, as per the parameters of the Freedom House, we stand next only to the United States of America. In a way, India is far better than the U.S. as the U.S. at 68 was still consolidating, whereas Indian democracy at 68 was stable and consolidated. As a heterogeneous society, India must measure up as the best and vibrant democracy. “Even if we disagree, we are willing to listen to each other, because the Indian democracy is built on a sound philosophical foundation,” Prof. Chandrasekhara Rao said. However, there are two issues of concern for the Indian polity — the digital divide between the younger and older generations and the growing difference between haves and the have-nots. “Prof. Chandrasekhara Rao was the first Head of Department of Political Science and Public Administration in Andhra University and later on was professor in the Department of Political Science in University of Hyderabad before becoming Vice-Chancellor of Dr. B.R. Ambedkar Open University,” former Rector of Andhra University and Director of GVP Centre for Policy Studies A. Prasanna Kumar recalled introducing the speaker. “The CPS has decided to revive the D.Ch. Tirupathi Raju Memorial lectures and plans to organise K.S. Dutt Memorial Lecture on November 14 and D.V. Subba Rao Memorial Lecture on December 20,” Prof. Prasanna Kumar told The Hindu . Even if we disagree, we are willing to listen to each other, because the Indian democracy is built on a sound philosophical foundation Prof. R.V.R. Chandrasekhara Rao Former Vice-Chancellor, Dr. B.R. Ambedkar Open University Published - August 17, 2015 12:00 am IST


--- [BRAOU - Dr. B.R. Ambedkar University] ---
| Vice-Chancellor | Period | |---|---| | Prof. G. Ram Reddy | 18-11-1982 to 13-03-1985 | | Prof. C. Narayana Reddy | 08-08-1985 to 20-06-1989 | | Prof. R.V.R. Chandrashekar Rao | 25-09-1989 to 24-09-1992 | | Prof. S. Basheeruddin | 05-12-1992 to 04-12-1995 | | Prof. Afzal Mohammad | 01-03-1997 to 25-10-2001 | | Prof.V.S.Prasad | 26-10-2001 to 07-08-2003 | | Prof. D. Ramchandram | 29-07-2004 to 27-07-2007 | | Prof. O.R. Reddy | 12-11-2007 to 07-11-2010 | | Dr. P. Prakash | 25-07-2011 to 06-01-2014 | | Prof. K. Seetharama Rao | 27-07-2016 to 24-07-2019 23-05-2021 to 22-05-2024 | | Prof. Dr. Ghanta Chakrapani | 06-12-2024 |


--- [Dr. B.R. Ambedkar Open University - Wikipedia] ---
Dr. B.R. Ambedkar Open University, also known as Telangana Open University, formerly Andhra Pradesh Open University, is a public university in the city of Hyderabad, Telangana, India.




--- [Managing Higher Education Institutions | - UoH Herald] ---
Nine professors of UoH appointed Vice-Chancellors/Director in the last 12 months Another 16 have earlier served as Vice-Chancellor’s / Directors of Universities and Institutions of repute This achievement is one of its kinds in the history of the University Established in 1974 on a modest note the University of Hyderabad (UoH) has in its journey of four decades made a name for itself in teaching and research not only in the country but also abroad. Today the institution has close to 400 faculty who are among the top in their related field. As one of the Country’s most innovative and vibrant universities, the UoH is recognised as being at the forefront of the frontier research agenda across a wide range of disciplines. The faculty of the University are among the best in the World and have won several national and international recognitions in addition to having more than 250 ongoing research projects to their credit worth 270 crore rupees. The UoH has been declared as the Best Central University for the year 2015. The University was given the Visitors Award by the Hon’ble President of India, Shri Pranab Mukherjee. It is a matter of pride that UoH has been ranked among the best in the world by UK Based Quacquarelli Symonds (QS) to study English Language & Literature; Chemistry and Physics in the year 2016. In the field of English it is the only institution from India that has been listed in the world rankings. The National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) of the MHRD, Government of India has ranked the University fourth best in the Country for the year 2016. Another marker of its eminence and visibility is the fact that its faculty members have regularly been appointed Vice Chancellors and Directors of leading institutions in the country. The last twelve months have been unique in this regard when nine senior professors of the University were appointed as Vice-Chancellors or Director of various Universities and Institutions all over the country. This achievement is one of its kinds in the history of the University. The senior faculty who have been appointed VC’s / Director are: 1. Prof. S Mohanty (English) appointed VC of Central University of Orissa 2. Prof. P Appa Rao (Plant Sciences) appointed VC of University of Hyderabad 3. Prof. A K Pujari (Computer & Information Sciences) appointed VC of Central University of Rajasthan 4. Prof. Rattanlal Hangloo (History) appointed VC of University of Allahabad 5. Prof. Ashwani Nangia (Chemistry) appointed Director of National Chemical Laboratory 6. Prof. Y Narasimhulu (UGC-HRD centre) appointed VC of Rayalseema University 7. Prof. P C Sarangi (Political Science) appointed VC of Ravenshaw University 8. Prof. K K Misra (Anthropology) appointed VC of Utkal University of Culture 9. Prof. Attipalli R Reddy (Plant Sciences) appointed VC of Yogi Vemana University Before this the University has had the honour of having many of its faculty members serve as Vice-Chancellors and Directors of Universities and Research Institutions of repute, and hold positions of high distinctions. They are: 1. Prof. Goverdhan Mehta (Chemistry) as VC of UoH and later, Director of IISc, Bengaluru 2. Prof. G S Agarwal (Physics) as Director of National Physical Laboratory, Ahmedabad and as Noble Foundation Chair and Regents Professor, Department of Physics, Oklahoma State University 3. Prof. Shanta Sinha (Political Science) as Chairperson, National Commission for Protection of Child Rights 4. Prof. A K Bhatnagar (Physics) as VC of Pondicherry University 5. Prof. Rajan Harshe (Political Science) as VC of Allahabad University 6. Prof. B P Sanjay (Communication) as Director Indian Institute of Mass Communication, New Delhi, and later founding VC of Central University of Tamil Nadu 7. Prof. G Nancharaiah (Economics) as VC of Dr. B R Ambedkar University, Lucknow 8. Prof. E D Jemmis (Chemistry) as Director of Indian Institute of Science Education and Research, Thiruvananthapuram 9. Prof. P S Zacharias (Chemistry) as VC of Goa University, Goa 10. Prof. Arjula R Reddy (Plant Sciences) as VC of Yogi Vemana University, Kadapa, AP 11. Prof. A K Pujari (Computer & Information Sciences) as VC of Berhampur University, Orissa 12. Prof. Rattan Lal Hangloo (History) as VC of Kalyani University, West Bengal 13. Prof. RVR Chandrashekar Rao (Political Science) as VC of Dr B R Ambedkar Open University, Hyderabad 14. Prof. Ratna Naidu (Sociology) as VC of Sri Padmavati Mahila University, Tirupathi, AP 15. Prof. R Srihari (Telugu) as VC of Dravidian University, Kuppam, AP 16. Prof. U N Singh (Applied Linguistics & Translational Studies) as Director of Central Institute of Indian Languages (CIIL), Mysuru The faculty have been actively engaged in research and this has led to the University having to its credit 17 (Indian and international) patents issued out of the 42 that have been filed since inception, covering various science and engineering research disciplines.” Out of the seventeen patents granted to nine faculty members, 5 are Indian; 10 are US; 3 are European and 1 is a Canadian patent. Some of these patents are approved in India as well as in the US, Europe and Canada. Three of our patents have been transferred to Biotech Consortium India Limited (BCIL) for commercialization. In the years to come the University’s focus will continue to be Research & Innovation with an emphasis on contributions that will shape the society. The faculty and research students/staff at the University of Hyderabad will continue with their commitment towards society-relevant, path-breaking research in the coming years. UoH would like to be one of the Global Universities to reckon with in the coming years.


--- [Dr B R Ambedkar Open University OFFERED RICH TRIBUTES TO Prof ...] ---
Hyderabad: Prof. RVR Chandrashekar Rao, former Vice-Chancellor of Dr. B. R. Ambedkar Open University, breathed his last on yesterday 9.30 pm. Prof. RVR Chandrashekar Rao, served as Vice-Chancellor of the University from September 25, 1989 to September 24, 1992. Prof. RVR appointments hundreds of job were made in the university during his tenure. He played a big role in making many reforms in the university. Prof. A.V.N.R. Reddy, Registrar expressed his condolences message to the family members of Late Prof. RVR Channdrashekar Rao. The University employees expressed deep condolences over beloved Vice-Chancellor’s death. We have received this biodata information from retired PA to Registrar Mohammad Ji. Thank you. ఇది కూడా చదవండి: మాజీ ఉపకులపతి ఆచార్య ఆర్.వి.ఆర్. చంద్రశేఖరరావుకు ఘన నివాళి హైదరాబాద్: డా. బి. ఆర్ అంబేద్కర్ సార్వత్రిక విశ్వవిద్యాలయ మాజీ ఉపకులపతి ఆచార్యులు ఆర్విఆర్ చంద్రశేఖరరావు గురువారం రాత్రి తుది శ్వాస విడిచారు. ప్రొ. ఆర్విఆర్ చంద్రశేఖరరావు, డా.బి.ఆర్. అంబేద్కర్ సార్వత్రిక విశ్వవిద్యాలయంలో సెప్టెంబరు 25, 1989 నుండి సెప్టెంబరు 24, 1992 వరకు విశ్వవిద్యాలయ ఉపకులపతిగా పనిచేశారు. ఆయన పదవీకాలంలో విశ్వవిద్యాలయంలో వందలాది ఉద్యోగాల నియామకాలు జరిగాయి. విశ్వవిద్యాలయ అభివృద్ధికి అయన పలు సంస్కరణలు చేపట్టారు. విశ్వవిద్యాలయ రిజిస్ట్రార్ ప్రొ. ఏ.వీ.ఎన్.ఆర్. రెడ్డి సంతాప సందేశంలో స్వర్గీయ ఆర్విఆర్ చంద్రశేఖరరావు గారి కుటుంభ సభ్యలకు ప్రగాడ సానుభూతిని తెలిపారు. వారి ఆత్మకు శాంతి చేకూరాలని భగవంతున్ని ప్రార్ధిస్తున్నట్లు పేర్కొన్నారు. విశ్వవిద్యాలయ ఉద్యోగ సంఘాల నేతలు మాజీ ఉపకులపతి మృతి పట్ల సంతాపం తెలిపారు.
